ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47724	The sixth session of the Second Regular Session on 30 November 2010 (First Day of Work) (The session began at 11.05 p.m. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, president of the National Assembly, holds the presidency. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47725	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the sixth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sittings are attended by 124 MPs. I remind you, Article 88 is Article 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, provided that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and establishment of the agenda exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 128 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 286. Rules of Procedure? (No) I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Radoslav Mojsilovic and Miroslav Markicevic. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for laws and other acts in the proposed agenda of the session as soon as possible. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representatives of the motions of Dr Diana Dragutinović, Minister of Finance, Mr Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Science and Technological Development and Dr Slobodan Milosavljevic, Minister of Trade and Services, I have called for the sittings to be attended by Slavica Jelac, Director of the Office for Tobacco at the Ministry of Finance and Zoran Jadzic, Director of the Board of Games at the Ministry of Finance. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before establishing the agenda of the sitting, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for the agenda of acts under emergency procedure and on a proposal for a merger of discussions. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act be put on the agenda. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, three voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Chambers of Health Workers be put on the agenda. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The president of the National Assembly, Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, which submitted to the National Assembly on 26 November 2010. Please make a statement. Of the 130 MPs, 123 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Nada Kolundži, pursuant to Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Articles 170 and 192 paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that: 1. Joint principled search on: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tobacco, – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Games; 2. Joint principle and uniform search on: – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on military, labour and material obligations – Proposal for a decision to suspend the obligation to serve the military deadline – Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Protocol on mines or restrictions on the use of mines, mines of surprises and other devices, amended and amended on 3 May 1996 (Protocol II amended and amended on 3 May 1996), annexed to the Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the use of certain types of conventional weapons which may be considered to have excessive traumatic effects or to act without distinction as regards the objectives, – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on the Exchange of Means and Documents; 3. Joint Single Search on: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on Co-operation in Protection against Natural and Other Traditions – Proposal for a Law on Scientific and Technological Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Italy – Proposal for a Law on Scientific and Technological Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Austria on the Law on Scientific and Technical Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia – Proposal for a Law on Youth Mobility of the Republic of Serbia – Proposal for a Law on the Law of the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of the Republic of Spain on the Treaty on the Employment of Members of the Family of the Diplomatic, Administrative and Technical Staff of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Since 10 December 2008, replacing Annex I of the multilateral agreement between the European Community and its Member States, the Republic of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Iceland, the Republic of Montenegro, the Kingdom of Norway, Romania, the Republic of Serbia and the United Nations Mission in Kosovo (in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution 1244 of 10 June 1999) establishing a common European aviation area. Does the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. Of the 139 MPs, 127 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We're moving on to the agenda. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure and the motion to merge the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. Of the 137 MPs, 129 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the 6th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the tobacco law, 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Games on Happiness, 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the State Administration Act, 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on military, labour and material obligations, 5. Proposal for a decision to suspend the obligation to serve the military term, 6. Proposal for a law confirming the Protocol on mines, mines and other devices, amended and amended on 3 May 1996 (Protocol II amended and amended on 3 May 1996), annexed to the Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions regarding the use of certain types of conventional weapons which may be considered to have excessive traumatic effects or to act without distinction as regards the objectives, 7. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on the Exchange of Assets and Documentation, 8 / 8 Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on co-operation in the protection of natural and other disasters, 9. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Scientific and Technological Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Italy, 10. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States of America on scientific and technological co-operation, 11. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Austria on scientific and technological co-operation, 12. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of France on the mobility of young people, 13. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Spain on the employment of members of families of diplomatic, consular, administrative and technical staff of diplomatic and consular offices, 14. The Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Belgium on the exercise of luxuriant activities of certain members of the families of the staff of diplomatic and consular offices, 15 / 15 Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Eastern Republic of Uruguay on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic and official passports, 16. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on visa waiver for their citizens, 17. Proposal for a bill to confirm the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Netherlands on the luxuriant activity of the supported members of the family of diplomatic and other staff of diplomatic and consular offices, 18. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Ratification of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, as amended in accordance with Protocol No 11, Protocol with the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, Protocol 4 to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which provides for certain rights and freedoms not included in the Convention and the First Protocol thereto, Protocol No. 6 to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, Protocol No. 7 to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, Protocol No. 12 to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and Protocol No. 13 to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of Moral Freedoms in All Conditions, 19. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Confirmation of the Convention on the Protection of Persons against Automatic Processing of Personal Data, 20. Proposal for a law amending the Act on the Confirmation of the European Convention on Extradition, with additional protocols, 21. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and the Dignity of a Human Being in application of Biology and Medicine: Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine, 22. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Health Cooperation between the Republic of Serbia and the State of Kuwait, 23. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Cyprus on Social Security, 24. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Belgium on Social Security, 25. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Argentina on cooperation in the veterinary field, 26. Proposal for a law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt on veterinary co-operation, 27. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia on cooperation in the veterinary field, 28. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on scientific and technological co-operation in the area of agriculture between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia, 29. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on international road transport between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium, 30. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the 1992 Protocol on Amendments and Supplements to the International Convention on Civil Responsibility for damage caused by oil pollution, adopted on 29 November 1969, 31. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the 1992 Protocol on Amendments and Supplements to the International Convention establishing the International Fund for the Compensation of damage caused by oil pollution, adopted on 18 December 1971, 32 December 1971. Proposal for a law confirming ECAA Decision No. On 10 December 2008, replacing Annex I of the multilateral agreement between the European Community and its Member States, the Republic of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Iceland, the Republic of Montenegro, the Kingdom of Norway, Romania, the Republic of Serbia and the United Nations Mission in Kosovo (in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution 1244 of 10 June 1999) establishing a Common European Aviation Area, 33. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions. We move to the 1st and 2nd points of the agenda: – Proposal for an Amending and Complementary Law on Duvan and Proposal for Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Games on Happiness (Common Principled Search) (National Ambassador Zoran Ostojić, from the place of office: Rules of Procedure. ) The unanimous decision of the National Assembly to carry out a joint principle search on items 1 and 2 of the agenda, the total debate time for parliamentary groups shall be five hours and shall be distributed, and that shall be: Parliament group of ZES - hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group shall have an hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds, Parliament group G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group Forward Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; DSS-Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; MP group SPS-JS – 18 minutes; MEP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group New Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliamentary group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the MPs, who are not members of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I would like to inform you that the MPs' groups have authorised them to be represented by MPs under these points of the agenda: MP Sinisa Stamenković – PUPS Parliament Group, MP Zoran Shami – Parliamentary Group DSS-Vojislav Kostunica, MP Nenad Prokic – MP LDP. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint review of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tobacco and the Proposal for a Law on Games on Happiness. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? Mr. Zoran Ostojić has his word. You're advertising the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47726	I'm advocating a breach of Article 104, the dignity of the Assembly. Mrs. Djukic, MPs of the ruling majority are more important to vote than to go to this part of the agenda. But, vigorously protesting, let's say that it was a shared guilt, we weren't in the hall when it was voted, neither we, nor our colleagues from the DSS, were going down and then you ran through parliamentary issues, or asking for information, so lightningly, as if you weren't interested in asking questions. Hello, people, children are starving in the middle of Belgrade, you don't care, I wanted to ask – are you going to solve this problem?- I'm sorry. The Minister of Education says there's no money, and there's money for the loser JAT, there's money for the Railways. Now Belgrade, the president of our party, Cedomir Jovanovic and Dragan Gilas, must solve the problem. Come on, get serious. You got up right away, now you've voted, noise in the hall, Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanović talks 200 an hour and we haven't been able to ask a question, and this is important! Kids starve, they freeze at night, it's about five million, Mr. Djelic, it's youth! What about the candidacy? Who will live in Serbia when our young are gone?- I'm sorry. Here, millions, hundreds of millions of dollars are given as subsidies to public enterprises that are losers, and here, there is no solution for children who won 48 points and when they entered it at the beginning of the year, they thought it would be on the budget. They don't have the money to pay their tuition. Why are you doing this?- I'm sorry. Don't run around on such important things anymore. Please get serious. There's half of you here now, you've voted on the agenda, and you don't care about him. Why does Belgrade now have to solve this problem?- I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47727	People's MP, there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you know it very well. Right, to request an explanation on the basis of Article 286 and the explanation has every MP and I refer you to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly where it writes – immediately after the opening of the session. Your right not to attend the vote is your right and I'm not going into it, but if you want to use the right of Article 286 you have to be in the O.R. Please do not deceive the public that the right is denied, no one has been in the hall, it has been asked, and I can only express regret that this right has not been used, but that I ask you to take care of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure that we are obliged to respect. Does the proposing representative, Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Science and Technological Development want a word? (Yes) Please sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47728	Dear People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, are on the agenda today two laws from the Department of Finance's work and I will explain these two laws on behalf of my colleague Diana Dragutinovic on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It's two domains, and they were subject to great attention 10 years ago, and they were very problematic. Let us remember, at that time 90% of the value of tobacco products was smuggled, was not in legal flows, and the question of gambling was burdened by the presence of black capital of criminal structures and, in general, by this activity of the state and our citizens had almost no use at all. So before I explain several institutes of these two proposed laws, let me remind ourselves of the journey we traveled together in the previous decade. So, in the area of tobacco with 90% of smuggled cigarettes today we have come to the conclusion that three leaders in the world are present on our market, we have a regulated market, if there is smuggling, it is at a low level and, in fact, one of the big questions is the further harmonisation of our taxation of these products with European norms. More than ever, from a recently adopted law on smoking in public places, it is a matter of health care, a question of the possibility that as few young people, women, start to consume tobacco and a much smaller issue is related to any crime or problems in that area. The proposed amendments and additions to the tobacco law are here, above all, to ensure and implement the work of the Recommendation of the comprehensive regulation reform strategy. We will agree that our country can further improve business conditions, so the recommendations recommended in the domain and in part of this law put these amendments on the agenda and I hope that a large number of parliamentary groups will vote these amendments and supplement them. First of all, we have the possibility of commodity. We know that the previous law has led to the full separation of the transport of tobacco products in the area of distribution, and the effect that has been sought has been achieved, and that is to know who, under what conditions and how it transports tobacco products. Now, when this goal has been achieved, it is time to listen to those who deal with logistics, transport and to enable, which is proposed by these changes and supplements, that transport, transport of tobacco products, can be done together with other products, of course, if they are separated in separate packages that prevent the penetration of the scent, and that they do not make direct contact, in order to avoid negative effects. The second thing is, it's a more efficient procedure to publish a solution, which brings the tobacco management to the "Official Messenger". These are technical, but important things, to reduce the cost of this industry. The second element, proposed by this law, is through the rationalisation of the number of executives at the Ministry of Finance, that those executors who were formerly in the Ministry of Finance, and now are no longer there, are now working at the tobacco administration, which was established by the adoption of the first tobacco law seven years ago. The idea is that these powers, especially those involved in the preparation of the draft amendments and the addition of the law, opinions on its application, the preparation of sublegal acts for its implementation and other administrative actions, which the Ministry of Finance has previously done, are now in the power of the tobacco administration. The third element, it is to publish those retail prices of tobacco products sold in a duty-free shop and to mark them with a health warning. We're down to an absolute minimum selling opportunities through a duty-free shop. One Bulgaria, for example, just last year made a decision that at the border they would be abolished, and we know that it was traditionally one of the channels of smuggling. And what's very important is that here in Serbia we reduced it to a minimum, at the airport. However, the question arises, how to ensure that and this small amount of cigarettes sold in such a way, through that channel, how to mark it with a health warning. Here it is possible that this marking can also be in a foreign language, that is to harmonize our normal practice, that everything in our country is in Serbian, with the fact that these tobacco products are bought by people who are leaving our country and that is why it is important that this marking exists in a foreign language. We suggest that this law be passed. These changes and additions of laws are technical, should be based on what has been achieved to move forward with the environment. Let me now move to another law, and these are amendments and additions to the law on gambling. I remember the time when we proposed the first Law on Games of Happiness, when we had a debate with a number of gamemakers at the time. One of them was arrested a few days later because in his house, in the suburbs of Belgrade, police found a literal arsenal, with mortars, with firearms. It's a traditionally sensitive area in every country. That was the case in Serbia. If we look at what it was like in the previous period, before I move on to the amendments and additions of this law, I just want to remind myself that betting, gambling, lottery, have not grown significantly as a phenomenon in our society. It exists in all societies. There's no society where this doesn't exist, but there's just a difference between those societies that well arranged this domain and those who made it weaker. In 2004, the number of legal machines was 5,026. At the end of last year, we had through 81 legal entities, even 17,500 machines. That doesn't mean that suddenly a huge number of additional machines appeared, but that shows the entry into normal, legal flows, of what was previously the mafia's activity, which in this way laundered dirty money. Now it is a matter of one activity that is in the legal course and the way it is done is in the interest of our citizens. For example, the number of legal payments, six years ago there were 300, and last year there were 1,297. If we look at the financial effects 10 years ago and look at the period from 2001 to 2003, revenues legally recorded from gambling were at 26m euros. For the period from 2004 to now, we have ten times the income, of which 60%, of those 256m euros, went to the budget of the Republic of Serbia for all the necessary purposes, and 40% went to local self-governments for non-commercial and social activities, as well as to the tradition in Serbia, but also to other countries of Europe, for caritative purposes, to help those associations that have special needs. So, Serbia, in the domain of gambling, where there is and will always be a risk, because there is a lot of cash in that domain, has made exceptional progress, which through this law, which we now propose to further improve, has made it possible for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia to gain a significant profit and ensure that it enters much more legal flows, that it is legal capital, through a number of strategic partnerships and the purchase of a license, through tenders of international players in that area. For example, an Austrian player paid considerable funds to get the opportunity to open an international casino in Belgrade. Therefore, it is a domain that has been significantly improved. As regards the proposed amendments and additions to this law on behalf of the Government, I would like to single out the following: firstly, it is prohibited to enter minors into facilities where special gambling is being organised. That may have been understood, but it wasn't legally regulated yet. If, as I expect, all parliamentary groups support these changes and supplementations we will send a clear message to both young people and their parents and teachers, minors are not the place in bookies. That is why, and additionally, special gambling is prohibited for longer than 1800 hours a day, because we have one number of places that work literally day and night. It's never been that intense, now it's getting smaller. At the same time, the title 'Casino' (CASINO) is prohibited on those facilities where special games of chance are held on automatics. These are different activities and therefore it is prohibited to highlight any activity that is not being organised within that place. On the proposal of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, it is specified, in these proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Games, that number of entities that can use the means to implement the programme in order to protect and improve the position of persons with disabilities and other persons in a state of social need, in accordance with Article 6. The social protection law and ensuring the social security of citizens, the obligation of competent ministers to establish the way and criteria for the distribution of dedicated receipts of gambling budgets is prescribed. These are now significant assets and it is very important that there is great transparency in which and under which criteria these resources can be allocated. It is no secret that a large number of local self-governments expect support for their social programmes, and it is no secret that there are a large number of associations, associations that want to receive funds through the revenues collected through these activities for their purposes. At the same time, there is a number of technical precisions in this law, which, if I am not mistaken, has changed for the first time since 2004. So after six years of application, the following changes are proposed: 1) the introduction of the concept of basic gambling, the basic classic gambling, so that it is possible to determine the winning fund in different amounts, which was one rigidity in the law, which is recognised, and this will contribute to increasing the revenues of the Republic of Serbia's budget, 2) also proposed to adopt a sublegal act, which will prescribe closer conditions and way of organising games on happiness through the internet, telephone or other means through telecommunications connections, which has not been regulated by legislation so far. We've seen some problems in the last few months and years. The government of the Republic of Serbia proposes to react. We propose and see that a number of people have recently been arrested in our country, because they illegally staged online betting, not for our market, but, above all, for Europe's market. This law was passed six years ago when online gambling was only post-war, today the situation is much different, so these changes and additions of laws will allow Serbia to edit in one European way and that channel through which citizens are increasingly betting. Therefore, we have additional elements, from the issue of changing the structure of the gambling director's capital, which can enable the identification and origin of the capital that enters the market based on games. We know that gambling, unfortunately, was one of the ways that criminal groups were trying to wash dirty capital, and Serbia doesn't want it. Therefore, these amendments and additions to the law establish additional checks on any capital that tries to enter our country's gambling process. It is prescribed that the government in a public invitation to grant a license to host special gambling lists the territory in which the toy will be located, in accordance with a law governing the even regional development of the Republic of Serbia. At the same time, it is prescribed that, in addition to evidence of property rights, rights of use or lease in the relevant rooms, where special gambling can be organised, evidence can be submitted of property rights, rights of use or lease on land on which a special gambling facility will be built, in accordance with the intervention to increase the greenfield investment in our country. At the same time, I would also like to say that when applying for a public positive for obtaining a special gambling license in toys, evidence is also submitted that the applicant or his majority founder has been involved in at least one of the toys, as well as that he is throwing gambling in toys for at least five years, which is a serious presumption of the successful performance of the editors and providing regular inflows of funds into the Republic of Serbia's budget. In this industry, because of industry, Serbia wants to have clean players, serious players, professional players, in such a way that what has always appeared in humanity, which is that citizens like to bet, like to try through gambling to reach funds, be one domain that is legally regulated in the interests of our citizens and especially the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which receives 60% of all income, which here is also a significant 40% of income for local self-government and social purposes. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, you have two laws that further regulate two sensitive areas, where Serbia has made significant progress over the last ten years and where it intends to move forward. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47729	Thank you, Minister. Do the officials of the committees want a word? Does the vice president of the Finance Committee, MP Branko Ljiljak, want a word? (No) Does the chairman of the Legislative Committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) The word is Mr. Stamenkovic Sinisha.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47730	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, as always when adopting certain status laws, the MEPs discussed their solutions and in the day to vote will support the draft law on tobacco as well as the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on gambling. We want to say that the Board of Tobacco, as an authority of the administration, which is part of the finance ministry, participates in the preparation of the draft amendments and additions to this law, as well as that it has acted primarily under the EU directive, in which we have committed to adopt adequate solutions through a single tobacco administration that will be in agreement with EU directives. When it comes to harmonising with the current regulations governing the registration of business entities dealing with this, for us, with such important activity, above all, important for farmers of certain regions, we believe that this harmonisation of the rules is necessary and that it came at the right time, so that in the coming season of the establishment of this culture, the measures that these EU regulations are subject to can be taken in due time. The implementation of the units' recommendations for a comprehensive reform of the rules, a shortened SRP, under which it is necessary to prescribe the possibility of transporting tobacco products together with other products, if they are separated in separate packings, has also contributed or will contribute to the more efficient implementation of all the provisions of this European Directive, which impose certain procedures both professionally and technically. The PUPS parliamentary group will support both of these legal solutions in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47731	Thank you, Mr. Stamenkovic. The word has the mandated representative of the SPS-JS parliamentary group, Mr Zoran Bortic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47732	Dear Vice-President, the Honorable Presidency, respected ministers, representatives of the ministry, esteemed fellow MPs, in addition to the legal basis for the adoption of the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Tobacco, which is contained in Article 97(6) and 15) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, under which the Republic of Serbia regulates the tax system and finance the achievement of the rights and duties of the Republic of Serbia, the social processes that take place in our country have also imposed essential reasons for the adoption of amendments and addition of the existing Duvan Act. These reasons are as follows: First, they are contained in the need to create conditions for the implementation of the adopted recommendations of units for a comprehensive reform of regulations, initiated by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; second, the reasons for the amendments to the Law on tobacco are also contained in the need for certain provisions of the existing Law to be adapted to the changed circumstances on the market; third, the reason for the amendments to the existing Law arises from the need to achieve more efficient conduct of matters under the jurisdiction of the State administration. The proposed amendments and additions to the tobacco law will affect economic operators whose activity is prescribed by the tobacco law, and this: tobacco producers and tobacco dealers on large and small products, starting with, above all, reducing the cost of transport of tobacco products, which will result in significant savings in business. The amendments and additions to this law will also affect the creation of legal grounds for the more efficient operation of the tobacco management. It should be noted that changes in this law do not apply to natural persons, but to legal persons and entrepreneurs. It is important to point out that even by applying this law, they will have no additional costs. On the contrary, the law will create a more favourable normative environment for their performance. In particular, I would like to point out the fact that the adoption of this law will open up positive conditions for increasing the number of operators involved in the transport of tobacco products. In general, the proposed law amending and supplementing the tobacco law creates much more favourable normative assumptions for doing business in this important area of our industry and is regulated in accordance with the comprehensive regulation reform initiated by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Its adoption will bring legal norms into line with other related regulations, which is one of the important tasks both standing before the government of the Republic of Serbia and before this assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, organisation, normative regulation and gambling management are an important goal of every modern state, including the Republic of Serbia. It is right to say that in our country, gambling is a specific economic activity, which is in great expansion. By passing the 2004 Act, gambling in Serbia has been regulated legally. The creation of the Law then used solutions and experiences of those countries where the work of gambling was developed. Over the past years, however, the law has shown the need for some of its provisions to be amended, in order to comply with the current legislation. A particular reason for the adoption of this law is based on the need for that activity to take place within the legal frameworks and thus to ensure that the game-makers are able to implement their financial obligations within the prescribed deadlines. This will result in a greater and more efficient collection of public revenues on this basis, and thus a more significant inflow of funds into the Republic of Serbia's budget. The amendments and additions to this law will overcome the normative assumptions for the exercise of supervision of this significant activity. It should be pointed out that the current application of the law on gambling points to the need for more precise user-determination, the establishment of distribution and the purposes of 40% of revenue in the budget, and are achieved on a variety of basis from gambling. These funds, in line with the current legal solution, are used to finance the Red Cross of Serbia and other social organisations and associations of citizens who implement programmes to protect and improve the position of persons with disabilities, social protection institutions, socio-humanitarian organisations, sports and local self-government. Amendments and additions to the Law on Games shall specify the legal provisions which entities may use to implement the programme. In order to protect and improve the situation of persons with disabilities and other persons in a state of social need, it should be pointed out that these provisions are in line with the Social Protection and Social Security Act. This legal solution was also supported by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. In particular, I would like to point out that the proposed amendments to the law on gambling, starting with new technological and communication changes in our country, have created legal assumptions that other legal entities and entrepreneurs, besides the State lottery of Serbia, are able to stage prizes in goods and services via the Internet, telephone or other means via telecommunications connections, under conditions prescribed by the proposed law. The law also specifies the way in which the fee is paid for the event, which is due to be paid by the gamemaker luckyly via the Internet, telephone or other means by means of telecommunications connections. The proposed amendments to the Gambling Act prescribes the obligation of gamemakers to start hosting special gambling games in toys no later than two years after the day of obtaining work permits. In this way, the legislator leaves the editor with sufficient time to take the necessary activities to start the approved work. It should be pointed out that the proposed legislative changes are subject to the terms and deadlines, as well as the level of penalties that have not been changed since the entry into force of the existing Law on Games on Happiness, i.e. since 27 July 2004. Starting from the fact that inflation over the past years has completely violated the penalties mentioned and made them meaningless, their proposed amendments are being corrected, which will again be brought into line with the violations of the legal provisions. Dear fellow Members of the People, proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Tobacco and the Law on Games on Happiness are a good basis for these areas to be regulated in accordance with modern processes in our economy and to allow for more efficient and rational handling of this activity. That is why the SPS-JS parliamentary group will support both legislative proposals in the voting day. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47733	Thank you, too. The word has a folk letter from Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47734	Thank you. In the framework of a joint debate on the Law on Tobacco and Gambling, I will only talk about gambling, wishing that all the time I have been empowered in front of a parliamentary group, I would dedicate something that illustrates the ability and the government, which is trying to solve a situation where we have found ourselves more credit, and a little less or very little situation in the general crisis, caused by financial virtual attempts to legalise greed as a kind of progress, which, fortunately, has proved unsuccessful. We're changing the law, which, if we want to be honest, first when you mention gambling, illustrates that gambling has become an association to that crisis where the popular movie "The Horses Kill, Right? "In this film, people's accidents are used in a way that you make money instruments out of them, bringing human passions or trying to achieve happiness to the lowest limits. So in this country, you have casinos and banks in every street in the city, and that traditional craftsmen and those places where five, six percent price differences were made and could have lived decently – they close down, that at a time when we talk about cutting too many regulations, people are burdened with so many tax duties that they can no longer make money for an incompetent and greedy state and for themselves, so they close down places where only banks and casinos can function. What else does the law on gambling associate us with? To those who would like to forget, here, I'm going to show a picture of the man who illustrates gambling, it's called Bojan Kristo, who, untraceably, disappeared when the story of how good the reforms of those who came here are to show us how much the mind is worth and how much the man "regular" can be able to get rich, showed that in fact this wealth was not so regular. What I want, not to remind myself of a man who untraceablely disappeared, but made a lot of what was supposed to be his mind, I just want to remind you of the formula of the games of happiness that you're really changing by this law. It absorbs everything that a man said in an interview in 2007, in July, when he boasted that the state had invested only one million, created the lottery, the "State Lottery of Serbia", which now earns 65m euros annually, said that the formula by which gambling revenues were distributed the following: for most of the games 50% goes to the players, and you are changing it now, and from what remains, from the other half, and in 2007, it went to 60% to the state, and the rest of the "Lutri". It means that out of 100 dinars of every unfortunate person or gambling addict or one who thinks he can get rich in gambling, so that the state of 100 dinars gives 50 to players, 30 to her remains, and 20 to Luttria. Of these 20 dinars, out of 100, as many as are left with 'Lutria', we had the situation that people were giving the most to themselves, they were employed in 'Lutria', that the state was 30%, or 30 dinars of 100 – not enough and that nothing but the budget deficit or budget gap that it has, and not wanting to save on itself, but on everyone else, it is necessary to find a way for the state to take as much action as possible, and that it has capable, smart, high-ranking and valuable ministers and state administrations do not mean much, but it needs to pass laws, which today are no longer a concentration in which we can say – yes, we need to respect the law, because in this house we also bring unconstitutional laws and laws and laws that do not contain neither justice nor logic. The fact that this law contains neither justice nor logic, that it is motivated that the state retains the greatest part of what players invest in or those who want to gamble speak itself to Article 2. The proposal, by which you are asking that the money collected from these purposes can also be available to other associations, aimed at improving the socio-economic and social situation of persons with disabilities and other persons in a state of social need. And you think it's just gonna pass, the MPs won't see it, because when you mention vulnerable social groups, so the disabled among them, so the Red Cross as a user, so the sick, whose operations are being paid, it's enough that no one is allowed to bury a little bit in the solution you've suggested here?- I'm sorry. Well, I'll tell you that the means to help people with disabilities should not be given to other associations, except to persons with disabilities. And why should we and this area introduce some intermediaries? And I don't care at all what forms of organization these people are willing to appear in front of you as someone who gives his hand to get a piece of money from gambling to help these people, as if they can't do it on their own. I don't mind the existence of these associations to help these people, but let them find a way to finance themselves, to help people with disabilities, for altruistic and human reasons, and not always be the first question – just give us the money, find them again from the citizens of Serbia, because there are no other sources, even if we make money on their misfortune, and then we'll help and play humanitarian. Giving funds, why are we against this in the solution that you propose to establish new changes here? Giving funds to other associations always, and as a rule, opens up the possibility of their and non-intentional, but also of irrational spending. So I'm not just talking about abuses. Why should we now finance a new organization, some new secretaries, equipment, rooms, so that they can help people who do it very successfully themselves? Unfortunately, citizens are witnessing numerous abuses of humanitarian funds. There's also court proceedings. I'm not going to have this presummation of innocence of anyone judging in advance, but, in principle, there's never been any legal responsibility, and there's no indication that these assets are actually being abused. And in a situation like this, you ask us, by law, for the funds raised from gambling to be held by some of these associations. Now what is most controversial, where the state is looking to catch most of the funds, I claim on behalf of the party I represent, the Serbian Progressive, that it is totally unacceptable to reduce the winnings fund in the classic gambling to only 10% of the payments received. I ask the citizens to hear it well. It's the purpose of this law, not the arrangement, not someone holding a weapon, it's not the subject of this moment! Leave the past! You solved it, you were smart, there were good moves, congratulations, but please, what's the excuse that what's collected from investors in classic gambling only 10% goes to those who participate in gambling? It's one of the simplest robberies of citizens and there's no softer words, any euphemism. For example, when it comes to gambling through SMS and SMS lottery, is there a mechanism for direct players to realize how much has been collected? What are the rules of the games under which such raffles take place? That's why it's totally unacceptable for you to bring one such solution, it's based on the damage of those who participate in gambling. And for what purpose? To increase the share of taxes and increase the salary of the organizers! Well, here you go, say it Serbian - to the detriment of players to increase the share and grip of the state and those who deal with the organization of these games! In Article 14, you have also made a good confession with a table, where the organizer's salary is increased from 20 to 36%, and the budget fee is increased from 30% to 54%, in order to make only 10% of the total payments, from now on the usual 50% of what they pay. It is clear to us that the government desperately needs every penny, to somehow endure the story of regular elections. It is clear to us that you do not exceed any means to reach the means to fill the budget gaps, but one such way of cheating citizens, however, is not in line with the dignity of a state that is trying to become civilized. You have to admit that. Limiting the right to obtain permits in this area – how does it go with what is called a competition permit, what is the Constitution guaranteed? It is totally unacceptable that you are doing Article 15, trying to maintain a monopoly in organising gambling and restricting the freedom of entrepreneurship against the Constitution, which is prescribed by Article 83, and by God, by international rules. What you're also defining, I don't know if you're explaining it by the specificity of this area, is the regulation of the specific conditions that you're doing here in article 16, and I think you're using it selectively. For example, when we had, at the last session, a debate on the Law on the Agency for Rehabilitation, bankruptcy and liquidation of banks, you introduced that banks can audit one company not for three years as before, but five, saying that this is the same for other companies. You do not put in the same position as the protection of the Serbian industry, the employed man, as you protect banks, for example, by giving them jobs even during the crisis by subsidising interest. Well, that well-intentionedness of yours and these benevolences must at least be balanced to some extent and that regulation doesn't bring any branches and actions, in fact, into an unequal position which violates a legal system that would have to be the first line of defense for all of us. Why am I talking about this in the context of a principled debate? In your explanation, you stated that this is a legal solution for harmonising with the positive legal regulations of EU member states. If there really is, and why didn't you specify the exact code of those regulations, so that we could check? We are not aware that there are regulations in the EU that could be the basis for violations of regulations and rights that guarantee the freedom of entrepreneurship. Please, when you say that something is in line with the positive regulations, well, the least we expect of you is to take your word for it. We trust you only to the stated member of the law and regulations, and the precise member who defines it, because you really took us quite a bit of time to get to what you were calling for, that there is one you would and would say, which will say that it is really not correct to change the law in such a superficial, incompetent and selfish way. The way you provided for the withdrawal of the permit I will comment when we discuss in particular, but something that deserves special attention is prescribing the distance of the casinos from educational institutions. I think it's completely unsupervised, and the way you predicted it is at least problematic. The minors are already banned from the 50th, which we respect, so it doesn't matter where they are. The explanation that it will increase, you say, the preventive action on the problem of the participation of minors in special gambling, betting and automatics loses every sense, because you restrict the entry of underage persons into these facilities and for the same reasons you say you should, then, prescribe distance from food stores, because they sell alcohol and cigarettes there, as well as paint and varnish stores, because it is known that the evaporation of these and such substances is used in, for the health of harmful purposes, which we must fight as a society because they are involved in some kind of narcotics because of the way they are used. And it should also be prescribed a distance from theatre and cinema, because sometimes they show films and plays to the extent of erotic character that it really seems harmful to minors. But, no, you only do it where you think it fits or where some lobby is so strong you're courting him like this. I am opening a very interesting legal question here – does a hotel that has a casino have to close if a new school is built in the location where the hotel is located, or will the question be opened? And the very way to determine precise distance can be dependent on how authorized to measure and interpret these regulations, how do they do that, whether it depends on their goodwill or how someone will motivate them to measure it? Here, I'm going to give you a very specific example. Does it count, given that the meter is as a precise definition of distance now, here, the subject of legal regulation, does the walking path count with the mandatory use of the pedestrian crossing and the ban on treading of lawns, or can it be shorter, off the crossings and across the lawns? Listen to this - the interpretation of this can depend on the number offered in euros or on the dinars of whoever measures it?- I'm sorry. Please take the questions I ask very seriously and do not take them in the domain of entertainment or our imagination, because these are questions where your laws still do not fall. Your laws are still in front of the Constitutional Court, because to this extent they are of poor quality, many, not all of them, but one of these can also be on such small things – empty letter on paper. To conclude about this topic, demagogy is clean – taking care of minors and children in this way, because the youth you have abolished the right to treat his teeth for free when he turns 18, this measure of protection seems ridiculous. At the same time, you have destroyed the economy to this extent with a large number of criminal privatisations, left their parents without a job, and the question is, are we going to Europe with a youth who has no right to treat teeth when she turns 18 or is it important to protect them from the vice of the cube? The fact that he doesn't have the right to appeal I'll say in detail and I'll say that it's completely inappropriate, Mr. Djelic, for you to determine some fees in euros instead of in dinars. Let me remind you, in this country there is still a means of paying the dinar, and you have foreseen that by this law, for which certainly the Serbian Progressive Party will not vote. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47735	The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47736	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, first, before I start talking about this point, I have to start speaking with one serious remark. The ruling majority has combined the debate with the first 25 points of the agenda, which are, however, ratifications, but also ratifications require discussion. Simple arithmetic shows that one item on the agenda is 12 minutes for all 250 MPs, or less than three seconds per MP. Only the speaker of the assembly read the titles of those points for 12 minutes. Secondly, there's been a merger of debates, and I understand that some related points are coming together, about tobacco, and about gambling. I don't see much similarities between these topics. However, I managed to find one, but I'll talk about it later. So, since it connects incompatiblely, I will only talk about the tobacco law and my colleagues, Mr. Tomic and Mrs. Vojić-Markovic, they will talk about gambling. I have to admit, when I saw on the agenda the changes and the additions of the tobacco law, if I had thought at first that it was very logical, but when I saw the contents of those changes, then I saw that it wasn't what would make sense. Given the government's attitude towards those who smoke, it would be logical to pass the next tobacco law. Here, Mr Djelic, I will tell you what this law should look like: point 1), the production and transport of tobacco products, point 2) is prohibited from importing tobacco products, point 3) should contain some criminal provisions, point 4) of the law enters into force immediately, in order to protect national health. In general, the current government's relationship to tobacco is extremely hypocritical, and in fact it is also the only relation to the gambling law, because the relationship to gambling is also extremely hypocritical. In other words, on these issues, the government would like to convince everyone that she's a little pregnant. A girl can't be a little pregnant, so neither can this government. I'll say exactly what I mean. On the one hand, you have a law that defines the production of tobacco and tobacco products, which is quite logical because every country has it. It's too serious a monopoly to miss some archaic behavior in practice. It's quite logical, therefore, from that point of view. On the other hand, you have the law, I'm afraid those who enjoy tobacco products are treated like criminals. There is a third party, take a walk to the Prince of Michael, send the gentleman in charge of the economy and the gentleman in charge of the work, at any moment he will see one three thousand citizens in Prince Michael standing on the street and smoking. I calculated that only in downtown Belgrade was about 20,000 hours a day lost. And Mrs Dragutinovic proudly says that she will increase excise duties on tobacco and that on that basis three or four billion dinars will enter the state register. How realistic is that, that's another question, that's what we're going to discuss when it comes to the budget, but everything and that's where you're going to make more hypocrisy, on the one hand, you're going to bring a completely senseless law, which I repeat, those who smoke are treated like criminals, and on the other hand, of course, you're interested in collecting profits from tobacco and tobacco products. When I initially suggested that you put an end to the production and traffic of tobacco in general, I had in mind some other things. You know, you need to learn from serious countries, for example from the United States. They had the prohibition of alcohol in the 1930s. And it was fairly done, not only were some small bans imposed, but it was generally forbidden to produce alcohol. What was the consequence of that? The result was that the mob got rid of their hands in an illegal liquor store, that it made a lot of money. Then the state recalibrated that mob. They're historical facts. Most of those who did this paid the state a lot of money to launder their income, and they did. There are also known names, by the way, we're not going to talk about it now, and a small part of the mob, like Al Capone and some similar, who refused to pay for the racket and went to jail. Imagine the situation with us. Prohibit the production and transport of tobacco, which would be entirely in line with the law on tobacco smoke harmfulness. Our mob immediately realizes that they don't need to smuggle heroin anymore, because it's much more cost-effective to smuggle tobacco. First, there's still a lot more smokers than a junkie. Secondly, the fines are much lower and the risk is lower. After, as the United States did, you recite mobsters and, all right. Unfortunately, I had to talk like this, because every government, including this government, has to be condescending in its own politics. Ministers in the government, from various areas, must sit down and agree on what is the state's interest and how to implement it. Those who smoke can't be persecuted by noon, and they can't have their hand in their pocket in the afternoon. We haven't written any amendments to this law. We could have written one single amendment, which is that the tobacco law is being put out of effect, because smoking is unacceptable. We could have made some more changes. For example, I'm going to quote you in article 81 of the existing law, among other things, that the sanitary inspector is in control of tobacco health. I'm sorry, I thought tobacco couldn't be healthy. It says here - smoking kills, tobacco smoke hurts people in your area. So it can't be right, and so on, not to spread the story. I see the chairman's been a little cut, so it's about time I finished. We have not submitted amendments, we will vote against this law. We'll vote against this other law, but that's what I said my colleagues would do. And, my final message to the Serbian government -- you can't be a little pregnant, and stop being hypocritical! Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47737	Thank you. You've spent half the time of an authorised representative. I'm not cut. On the contrary, I am very happy and happy to welcome the students of the First Economic School in Belgrade, who follow our work from the gallery and that: Ms. Nikolina Avramović, Aleksandra Blažević, Aleksandra Bobic, Sladjana Vučurović, Biljana Ćorić, Andreja Vidalija, Nikola Vujic, Jelena Vulikić, Gorana Vučenović, Tijana Damjanovići, Andrijano Damjanović, Aleksandra Dimitrovic, Dorotejo Dokić, Nikola Jevremović, Ivana Kovačević, Jelena Lorenc, Tamar Marić, Velja Milić, Marija Mitrić, Tamar Mitrić, Katara Mitrić, Katarina Pavlović, Svetlana Pavlović, Dajana Pantović, Marija Radovanović, Mirjana Ristan Ristević, Nikola Stanović, Nikola Stanović, Nikola Stanović, Velko Milić, Velko Milić, Mirko Mičić and Mr. Please give a round of applause for our guests and welcome. We will continue to work by giving the word to LDP authorised representative, Mr. Nenad Prokic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47738	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Djelic, my fellow Minister, I will speak only of the law on gambling, this time, and at the very beginning to say, if we adopt such a law, with such amendments and additions, it will continue, unfortunately, to be incomplete. Many parts of the law will remain unarranged, and the new trends that exist, as well as everywhere, left out, well, that law will not be functional for a longer period, but only a few things will be clarified, which is of course good, certain government decisions legalized, and will essentially not make much new. The draft law amending and supplementing the law on gambling has its own good side, the most important thing being that (in Article 48(1), paragraph 1) is passed from three years of payment of compensation for the acquisition of games on slot machines to monthly payments. By law, compensation was paid by machine 540 euros at a three-year level in advance, which amounted to 15 euros per month. The new proposal is to pay monthly compensation for 25 euros per machine worth 900 euros for three years. Despite the increase that is obvious, the proposal is good, but not only because of the major inflow into the budget, as the proposer states, but because of the maintenance of the number of machines in work, because due to the conditions of business, if the law did not change, many companies would suspend the work, and the reasons for this are numerous. The main reason is the sum of 54 000 euros, which must be paid as a minimum, the minimum for obtaining permits of the apparatus must be 100 in the work and is paid in advance, which for many companies is an irrevocable difficulty – 54 000 euros. And as a proposing state, even in the new proposal, it did not foresee the regulation of the gambling market, especially on automatics. This applies to the protection of companies that have been authorised and regularly settle their tax obligations. So far, only companies registered at the Board of Games have been controlled as licence holders. The machine salons and bookshops whose work is in the gray zone are estimated to have tens of thousands of machines for which tax is not paid, and about 35% of all bookies, it also does not work. So, they're working illegally. All of them, in addition to not paying obligations, which they would have to pay under the law, also affect the business of the permit editor, and the state does not intervene adequately or adequately in control or criminal provisions, which is not the only inaction by the state. A large number of copies of the apparatus are considered to have about 40%, for which the state is not doing anything to protect intellectual property, because it is also a major problem, and this is how it is treated by the Regulation on technical and functional characteristics and technical regularity of machines and tables for gambling, in Article 11, and says: "If the technical examination determines the non-originality of the hardware platform or software, the editor is ordered to remove the identified malfunction of the apparatus in the legal person authorised by the manufacturer before re-delivering the technical examination. ''How is it possible to legalise the non-originality of hardware or software, in other words, unless you give the authorised legal person permission by your rules, to copy with a certain compensation of the original declaration and unlawfully obtain income? A copy should, of course, be destroyed. It's the only reasonable solution. In order to avoid the problem in the future, imports of appliances should be limited to not more than a year old, as countries in the environment have prescribed: Croatia, Macedonia, Republika Srpska and Montenegro. I have the laws of all these republics here. It's the best Macedonian. Also, Croatia is very good. Republika Srpska's law, as well as Montenegro, is also better than our law – so that only the manufacturer can issue a certificate of originality soon. And now automatics are imported without any control and without any quality certificates, which exists in the Law as a Regulation on technical and functional characteristics and technical regularity of machines and gambling tables, Article 4(1). The result of automatic games must depend solely on a case that defines a software or hardware generator of random numbers, but only declared. Since it does not appear to be in line with the countries in the environment, because no international entities are defined to prove their quality check, not material that is least important, but software, because there is no laboratory in Serbia at this time that could professionally do so. As an example, I cite that it is selectively important who has given the certificate of quality. Serbia's state lottery has launched a portal on which Texas Holdem Poker and Roulette can be played at the moment. A reference to the company's software quality is "Play Tech", the official certificate "Rendo namber jenjor" by "TST-Technical System Testing North America Corporation", an internationally recognised accreditation body for statistical and technical testing software in order to animation players. That the law does not comply with the laws of the countries in the environment tells the following example. The proposal increased the rate of return from payments on machines from 60% to 70%. And in the environment is the situation: Montenegro 80%, Republika Srpska 80%, Croatia 80%, Macedonia 87%. The world's leading automatic production companies as a minimum block this percentage to, like, 90%. This is important in order to protect users of services. As a key thing for the further development of the editors, it is explained in article 69 what is meant by "transport". So far, the Board of Games has interpreted traffic as a total payment on the machine. According to the new proposal, the difference between payment and payment, which is an important difference that allows normal work, has so far been interpreted as paying an extra 5% tax after 12,000 euros, which was unreserved for operators working on appliances, who pay more than 90%. Now, what is not covered by the law, and neither the Amendments and Supplements proposal, is not foreseen that automatics can be rented from, for that, registered companies; it is not legally defined what happens to terminals that receive games via the Internet, and payments in salons or bookshops, which is in line with tax policy, because traffic on such terminals can be completely controlled. Furthermore, should the minimum square and number of machines per facility be prescribed in order to improve the services and arrangements of the market, as well as easier control of the entry of minors, since it is almost impossible to control when there are one or several machines in the restaurant? Then, advertising in public information funds based outside Serbia's borders, when there is no income control or tax is paid. Now there's only a ban on foreign tickets and tickets. Then, an increase in the untaxed minimum of winnings achieved in the bookies is now 19 000 dinars, and for example, in Croatia, it is about four thousand euros. As an important thing, the promoter limits the work of slot machines and betting places to 18 hours, within 24 hours, but does not give an interpretation of whether it also refers to toys that have machines in their composition or are excluded from the law. Under the law, minors were prohibited from playing, and the distance between games of happiness and primary and secondary schools was prescribed at 150 meters. As proof of the superficial approach to changes and additions to the Law on Games on Happiness, there is also a proposal for a ban on the entry of minors into places where games are organised, which is good, and the limit of distance moves to 200 meters, which is no use, because it is already prohibited to enter minors. The entire infrastructure of the salon, the machine and the bookies are set at 150 meters away. What are they going to do now, these people who are between 150 and 200 meters away?- I'm sorry. And any change will cause great material damage due to long-term leases, investment in premises, marketing, and so on. As far as the State lottery of Serbia, which, apart from the Grand Casinos, is concerned most, in article 14. The draft law amending and supplementing the law on gambling is proposed to divide classic gambling, for which the Serbian State lottery has exclusive right, based on classical gambling, and on other classic gambling. The proponent as an explanation of the division states that this is done in order to determine the Fund of Wins, which for all games, in the organisation of the Serbia State lottery so far was at least 50% in different amounts, for basic and classic games to remain 50% and for other classic games to be a minimum of 10%. What is the essence of this change? Is it correct for participants in other classic games to establish a 10% winning fund? It would most likely be the Fund of Wins. Should we limit the percentage that legal persons receive when they organise other classic gamblings on behalf of the Serbian State lottery? Does "other games of chance through SMS" mean Lotto? If so, what is the difference in game principle that the Win Fund would be at least 50% and by SMS at least 10%? The explanation is a larger tax inflow. But it is forgotten that the winners are also obliged to pay taxes on a sum higher than the average personal income in the Republic of Serbia, so that the tax inflow would essentially increase, but participants in these games would be damaged. What is the right of the Serbian State Lottery to have the exclusiveity of making games through telecommunications, which are not classic gambling, or casino games, which the law or proposals of the laws of the countries around them predict, because this is a trend in the development of this industry? Another important thing, the government made sure that it allowed the change of the structure of capital in the Grand Casino with this bill that legitimacy, Article 38a, the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Games. Lutraki Casino, he is allowed to buy the stake, that is, the "Austria Casino International" action and thus become the owner of 90% "Grand Casinos". The question of the validity of this transaction is raised and whether the "Lutraki Casino" meets the initial conditions under which "Austria Casino International" was granted the right to a licence after a public call. Who's to say that? I mean no one. That "Lutraki" has the same performance as "Austria Casino", so it can meet the initial conditions in the same way, without a public call. It would be desirable for the Proposer to publish the structure of members who worked on amendments and additions to the Law, since there is reasonable doubt that with the matter they were processing they did not have, very much, touch points, or did not want to propose amendments and additions that would complete the law and make it more functional for the next period, at least five years at least. Since I believe that so many amendments should be made to improve the Law on Games on Happiness, it would be more appropriate to return the proposal to work and to include professionals who have experience in practice in its work, and it would be great to have a public debate. If that does not happen, the LDP will submit the amendments it deems necessary for the bill that we have in front of us at the moment, so I ask you to accept these amendments, because they are aimed at improving the law that is weakest in the region and filed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47739	Thank you, Mr. Prokic. Do any of the other authorised representatives or presidents of the parliamentary group want a word? (No) I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 96(4), they are Article 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled search, the application for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted the following parliamentary groups: the LDP Parliamentary Group, the New Serbia MP Group, the SPS-JS Group, the DSS Group of MPs, the SRS and the ZES Parliamentary Group. According to the order, the first word should be given to Mr. Djordje Milicevic, but he is not here. Mr. Zoran Ostovic, too, no. Zeljko Tomic. There's no Mr. Tomic, either. Dragan Stevanović. There's no Mr. Stevanović either. Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47740	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I'm here. I do not belong to those MPs who were surprised when they saw that the completely incompatible proposals of the two amendments and additions of the Law on Games and the Law on Tobacco were joined, because I already recognized logic in that merger. It is the same logic that our country president Boris Tadic, the Serbian president, says to himself that he is a pro-Serbian president, not a Serbian president. And it's exactly the same logic that the Serbian government, which says to itself that the government is socially responsible, brings 700,000 people to the brink of poverty, fires 200,000 people, instead of hiring them, after each budget and budget rebalance, a new army of poor people appears, and yet it is socially responsible. So that logic has nothing to blame. Now let me say a little bit about the gambling law itself. The mandated representative of the DSS Group, Mr. Shami, spoke about the tobacco law, Mr. Tomic and I will talk a little bit more about the law on gambling. So, in 2004, the first law on gambling was passed. That law began to edit this matter. At that time, around 29m euros were poured into the budget from the area, and today it is worth 250m euros. So it's a very, very large budget fund, but I don't think we should be blind and watch this law just through this material gain for the budget. I want to talk about one aspect that the state must have in mind when it makes laws like this. I want to talk about one population to which this law and how it has multiple applications. It's about minors. There's a very interesting study that says that young people, therefore, underage people, most often, in search of their own meaning of life, are happy to enter casinos, to playrooms, to bookshops, which have been in recent years, and how much they've advanced, because, in fact, there should first satisfy their need for something that will kill them boredom, and, on the other hand, their need for fast and easy profit, which is not negligible. Despite the fact that, let's say, our prejudices that the very rich gamble the most, the poor kids gamble the most. Eleven percent of young people who go to bookies eventually become addicted to it, and that is already one of the addictions that this society has to deal with. The consequences of all this are running away from school, poor success, aggression, anger, family problems and society. What else does research say, and how can this law apply? In this country, 60% of young people don't read, half of them have never been to the theatre, 40% don't play sports. When all this is seen, then, indeed, we need to talk about whether the distance of the casino, bookshops or the playgrounds from the school is only important and what should be taken into account when this law is changed and when its amendments and additions are in front of the MPs. A lot of psychologists say that distance, in that case, doesn't matter at all. The kids will find a way to the bookies, because this other problem isn't solved. And this problem is much more complex, it's much wider, and the state has to find an effective and quick answer for it. The response must first and foremost be sincere, not like that conversation by Tadic with students in which he says knowledge is a priority on our path to the EU, while at the same time that knowledge and that intelligence strike hunger. It is about good students, strike hunger before the Ministry of Education, which, thanks to its understanding of European values, has singled out three million dinars for the party after the Pride Parade. So if that's an honest response from the state, then those kids have nothing to hope for. These are the priorities of society that bring such changes and additions to the law. Of course there is a solution, but with a government like this, it can't be found. Young people need to be provided with a lot of things in this society. When we talk about these amendments and the additions to the law, they have had a little more fun with minors, because in the past law it was forbidden for minors to play games of chance. This law now speaks of underage faces not being able to enter bookies, machines, casinos, even parents' escorts. It, of course, can be absurd, accompanied by parents, but it happened, and we had a lot of newspaper headlines about young people and how, at least if they can't play, they were sitting in such facilities. What's also important is that the penalties for non-compliance with these rules have been increased ten times. It's not negligible, society is poor. It is one of the restrictive measures. It is one of the measures to protect minors. But let's look at this other measure called distance and that's the topic around which there's been a pretty big controversy in society. How many bookies must be away from school, whether 100, 150 or 200 meters away, whether two kilometers away, according to Deputy Citizens' Protector, who deals with children's and young people's rights issues. Whether that distance is calculated from the door of the school to the bookshop or is calculated from the beginning of the building or the rest. Those are all problems. And it is a distance from one of the problems, one of the specifics, but I don't think it's crucial and I underline that society has to improve the socio-economic and social position of young people and children in this society, and then that sort of thing will be resolved. One of the amendments submitted by the DSS to this law was that the funds that flow into the budget from gambling are slightly different distributions, so that one part of the funds will be given to associations and organisations, whose goal is to correct the social socio-economic situation and young people, as well as women. We also have to say that there is another large spectrum of things that this law does not cover, which it would have to include, if it deals with minors, that it should protect. We have to keep in mind that there are visible and aggressive betting ads, casinos and casinos. They attract attention. There's got to be a way for them to be so aggressive they can't see each other. Also, the amendment and supplemental promoter, when it comes to working hours, tried to find a way to protect young people who move and come to the playgrounds during the day, and not to let bookshops, casinos and casinos work nonstop, but gave them a six-hour break, but did not stick to what was proposed by the Citizens' Protectors, which refer to the rights of the child. We asked there to be six hours of breaks, but during the day. So it's interesting to say a few more things. Interestingly, I had insight into several comments that casino owners supported this initiative for changing, amending and supplementing the law. One of those comments is very interesting. ''Publishers now have no legal option to ban a minor from entering or to throw him out and hope that the legislator will have it in mind. '"It is regulated by this. It would be interesting to see how the state, which says it wants to deal seriously with this problem, is creating a network of those who will protect minors, who will control the application of this law. So we have two and a half thousand casinos, we have seven inspectors and we have one official car. Do you think that's enough answer for what's written in this law? I think that this law is just a hint of money in the budget, that its intensity is absolutely not the protection of minors, although in a few things there are few things that move that ban - ban, restrictive measures and protection of minors. I have no confidence that this law was made for that reason. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47741	From the time of the parliamentary group, nine and a half minutes. Mr. Djordje Milicevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47742	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, are two legislative proposals, but in my presentation I will put the accent on one of these two legislative proposals, and it is about amendments and additions to the Law on Games on Happiness and I will try to be brief and clear. What the authorised representative of the SPS-JS Parliament Club said in his opening statement, I will repeat that. Therefore, the SPS-JS Parliament Club in principle supports the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Games on Happiness, because we believe that all the problems and negativity observed in this area and activity, which the existing legal framework is not in one comprehensive, quality manner arranged. First of all, I want to say, what is extremely important is that the law must be the same for all and all those involved in this activity must do so in accordance with the existing legal frameworks. We fully agree with what is stated in this context, in the light of this legislative proposal, that this is a fundamental assumption that the financial obligations of the editors are realised within the deadlines provided, that the payment of larger public revenues based on the organisation is achieved and that the greater the funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget is absolutely not disputed. On the other hand, it is understood that those who deal with the affairs of surveillance of this area, I mean the supervisory department, but also the inspections, tax administrations, market, tourist inspections, should do their part of the work, and all of us, as far as possible, help them do it. If it is true, and it seems to me that this public perception of the last days, that the illegal game market is as large as the regular and legitimate gambling market, then, of course, it is necessary to extend the powers and competence of those who exercise control and, of course, that it is very clear, once again, to specify who is in control, and if it is only the controllers, of course it is one insufficient number, how we could have heard for a while, and six or seven inspectors, it is about the administration that was made in 2006 and which has only one car, and which is extremely insufficient to control the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. Also, I want to say that we support the tightening of criminal policy, that all those who do not respect the precisely defined legal frameworks and, of course, the intensity, among other things, should be to curb the illegal market and illegal gambling. We believe that it is extremely important to prevent the participation of minors in gambling, it should be impossible for minors to enter gambling facilities, as well as to increase multiple penalties for offenders. So this goal is not controversial, in itself, but it is asked whether and in what context the realization of this goal will make a contribution, that is, to help increase the distance of objects from the existing 150 to 200 meters. Is this 50m so crucial and important in the realization of a goal that is extremely important? Is there, I have to ask that question, some kind of research that speaks in favor of this issue? What I'm trying to say is that so far it's on most of the entrance doors of the gambling facilities, that there's a sign that it's been banned for under 18 years. I don't think our goal should be that those who work in accordance with the law, with existing legal frameworks, that those who settle obligations towards the state and employees, we close them because their facility is 199 meters from primary or secondary school. How much of this provision, and I think we need to get an answer and this question, this change that was proposed, will affect the economic side of the budget, reduce revenue, how many legal objects are going to lose their work permit and how many employees are going to lose their jobs, and how much would this lead to an increase in the illegal market? We believe that these problems should be resolved, that penalties should be strengthened, supervision should be strengthened, but those operating in accordance with the existing legal frameworks should be respected in a certain way. So, the goal that is to be achieved is absolutely not controversial, but I think once again we need to look at all the proposals, all the measures that are proposed, which need to lead to the realization of this goal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47743	From the time of the parliamentary group, 15 minutes and 50 seconds have been used. Mr. Zeljko Tomic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47744	The Honorable Chairman, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will deal with only one part of this bill on amendments and additions to the law on gambling, where I will show that the government deals most with demagogy, not essentially with amendments and, in general, by improving the Law on Games on Happiness. First, I would like to say a few things, and in 2004, it was just like today, that there are incorrect claims in the public that Serbia has the largest number of sports bookies in Europe. That's just not true. According to official data in absolute numbers as well as per population, we have much more betting than we do: Great Britain – 8.862, Italy – 11.283, Czech Republic – 2.525, Slovakia – 1.426, Croatia – 2.329, Montenegro – 425, Ireland, Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc. According to these criteria, Serbia is with 1,240 bars within the average, or slightly lower than the centre of the scale. I'm just asking, who does it suit to present Serbia as a country of gamblers, so, even, in one part and pathological gamblers, what doesn't fit the truth? It is often claimed that many states have prescribed a minimum distance of sports bookies from educational institutions, which is also not true. Minister Djelic, or Deputy Prime Minister, did not find it appropriate, in any word, to comment on this issue of the distance of gambling facilities or, as the law calls it, "a toy", it is a raving expression, from educational institutions. I'll talk about it later. Such provisions as the rest of the Socialist legislation have only some countries of the former SFRY, such as Montenegro, Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, which also have the highest sports bookies in Europe, both per capita and in absolute numbers. Modern European legislation does not know the prohibitions of such a species. I would like Minister Djelic to tell us, I know that this is not his theme and that he came here because he was sent, not because he wanted something about a European standard regarding the distance of bookies from educational institutions. I know it doesn't exist anywhere in Europe. In time, some state officials said that in Sweden, for example, a 20km distance prescribed was also denied by representatives of the Swedish authorities. Now, you can see how many representatives of Serbian authorities are indignant by their ignorance of such things in this segment. Publicly, unargumented attitudes are often placed that by increasing the distance of the locals from educational institutions, minors will be prevented from celebrating gambling. However, all foreign research, specifically, study of the Institute of Mental Health from Toronto, the University of Metropolis University study in Manchester and others, as well as the views of relevant domestic experts, suggest that there is no impact on the distance to the increase of juvenile gambling. The results of these studies have also been translated into EU legislative practice, which does not know the limitations of distances, but is being prevented from entering fully for minors and large penalties for offenders. Mr. Djelic, you did not tell the public that there was no kind of public debate on this issue, no kind of negotiations and talks with associations of institutions dealing with gambling. It wasn't and this government didn't do it. She's pushing again something she can't even apply. As far as minors are concerned, all speakers have so far mentioned minors, but you in Article 50 of the existing law have in mind 5 to say: "Perfect entry into toys is allowed for adults" etc. That makes everything very clear. So this Article 3 prohibiting the entry of minors into facilities where special gambling is being held – this already exists. There is no object, so to speak, to gamble in which a minor can enter! You've got inspections, you've got comms, so go ahead, do your job, and it'll be fine. I repeat, in article 83, you replace the existing law of the word "educational institutions" with the words "from the building of educational institutions", so you change from 150 to "200 meters". Is there really something important that 50 meters can change?- I'm sorry. Is that going to stop a minor from crossing 50 meters more? And now we're going to introduce ourselves as one society that cares about both educational institutions and students, minors, etc. Lastly, I would just like to tell you, Mr. Djelic, that it is better if you had changed this law in a slightly different way, that you have distanced from educational institutions in Serbia to miles away from the premises of all parties of the ruling coalition, because there is no one who gambles more than the ruling coalition with nerves and lives of Serbian citizens. You'd better have escaped from school and college for miles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47745	The word has a folk MP, Mr Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47746	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Djelic, at first I will call for the two messages you sent from that pay phone, or from where you sit on behalf of the Government. First, you mentioned some clean toys. In order for Serbia to be a state of pure players, we must first clear the government. And I'll tell you why. Because you're talking about clean players, you whose time is the privatisation that's being funded by the man who made the money by smuggling tobacco. It's not just political stories and assumptions. There's evidence here for something like that, so even that tobacco mob king, as the SRS called him, once called and said that money was used here for privatisation. Well, when the government, which sits its hands and closes its eyes to such facts, sends messages from this Parliament that we need clean players, it does seem a little funny. On the other hand, you've brought these two laws into context with taxation. Here's a simple question - will the revenues that will increase in the name of taxation through this law on changes and additions to the law on gambling, will this increase in revenue next year be enough to cover only the exchange rate differences you pay on a variety of basis from the budget? You, Mr. Djelic, have witnessed that the National Bank of Serbia sold 20m euros yesterday in the interbank market to stop dinar depression and again depressed 0.11 pairs, and now I ask you – what are the revenues this country will make through these amendments and supplement the law to achieve in the next year or by the end of this year, so Serbia is to discuss the 2011 budget, following laws or some other laws relating to taxation, talking about amendments and additions to the Law on Tobacco and the Law on Games? For the SRS, this is primarily buying or spending time, until you in the government agree on how to split the budget. This is nothing else and you know it very well. Any benefit or effect from these changes and additions, essentially, citizens and people, even those on the market of these two areas, except damage, because you're going to further tax them, neither will they see nor will they feel. We understand that, when it comes to tobacco, we are talking through the debate today about both the budget and the Excise Act, what we are going to do and how in the next year, what incomes were, what you expect, what you project, etc. But what you've brought before us, these more than cosmetic changes and additions to the laws, which primarily refer to the tobacco law, are truly completely meaningless. Citizens, in the SRS' view, were currently expecting a much more serious life debate, a debate that would indeed be an answer to problems, from those who are today in front of Germany 11, from the hunger strike, to all other strikes in Serbia in robbed and disproved factories, and privatisations, institutions, institutions and so on. We can't talk about tobacco from the point of view of amendments to this law. Duvan, production, trade, processing, without one general and systematic story through agriculture in Serbia, cannot be discussed and serious effects of any changes cannot be expected. Look, the moment we need to talk about the budget, so the deficit is growing every day, we're talking about amendments to the tobacco law in the agriculture sector. All agriculture makes surplus, only tobacco makes deficits. In 2009, tobacco jobs were in the $50m deficit. I ask you - where are the answers to this problem in these changes and additions?- I'm sorry. Explain that to me, find me this relationship and the bond, and then we can really say that this all makes sense today. You're talking about tobacco, and we're not talking about the need to subsidize this production and processing. What budget will you subsidize from? You can't find the milk money. They ask you for five dinars, and you bring it down to three and boast through rebalancing. You have a need and tobacco producers are asking for subsidies, are left to you, as others, and left to themselves, on the ledge. That's unserious. That's irresponsible. You have brought these amendments and additions to the law in connection with a comprehensive reform of the rules, with the reform of the rules committed by the ministers in the government, and then these same ministers in the government did everything to discourage it. Are these amendments and additions to the law that will improve the administrative capacities of this country? Will it provide easier and better functioning of the tobacco market in Serbia? That's not true. That's just not true. What is also devastating to us, you have brought these two laws into connection with Greenfield investments, with the promotion of tourism, etc. Puppet mother to the country where gambling is creating preconditions for greenfield investment! Minister Djelic, in this country you can't get a building permit today. You can't solve problems in this country today in the middle of Belgrade that are essential to establishing greenfield investments. We're changing the law on gambling. Who are you messing with? Who should swallow this as something serious, what should Serbia and the Serbian parliament be discussing at the end of the year, when we bring in the accounts in 2010 and project in 2011,? And now someone needs to take this seriously. Let's not worry about the citizens, it'll be right, we'll solve the tobacco market, and the Greenfield investments will be promoted by creating in Serbia and changing the law on gambling. Well, that's more than funny. You will improve tourism by changing the law on gambling. Also, the new tourism law has denied the possibility for people in underdeveloped municipalities to receive incentives for funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget. 'Would you like these funds, which you will additionally make through revenue and through the interventions of those who organise the gambling market, to make up for those funds? After all, it's no problem you're taxing this. We can discuss whether it's much or not, but what are you spending that money on? Where's the money going? By designing the 4% budget at the beginning of the year, you raise it to 4.8% of the deficit before the end of the year, and you boast how you will reduce public spending and in 2011 the budget will be higher than at the beginning of 2010. This is more than ridiculous and no one serious can take this seriously. You're buying time to agree in the government to adopt the 2011 budget. The question arises that you are willing to adopt it at all within the deadline that the law provides for, or, after all, will you adopt it the way you promised the IMF? Today, your government, Mr. Djelic, is sending the budget to this assembly procedure, you cannot adopt it within the time limit you promised the IMF. You can't. You're changing laws here that you don't respect, a budget calendar that's defined by the Budget System Act. Do you know what article 172 says? The Rules of Procedure of this congregation? That the budget proposal can begin at the National Assembly session at the earliest 15 days since the adoption of the budget to the National Assembly. What's the date today? We are discussing amendments to the tobacco law and gambling. All the things you've brought before us, I understand how you've brought it out and how you've discussed it, pro-forma. We feel that at this point, it really took a lot more serious things to be brought before the congregation. These amendments and additions to the law, and the Law on Tobacco and the Law on Games on Happiness, will bring no benefit to the citizens, a very small and insensitive benefit to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and the money that you will additionally achieve, who knows where and what you will spend on your political efforts. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47747	Ten and a half minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Mr. Zoran Ostojić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47748	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, we have two laws before us, tobacco and gambling, or amendments to those laws. I really think the amendments to the Law on Cosmetic Tobacco, but they're not fundamentally controversial, so I'm going to stick to the amendments to the law on gambling. My colleague, Mr Prokic, spoke of some changes that are not covered by this proposal for changes that benefit businesses, or game-makers. I really don't understand why an opportunity has been missed in these changes to deny in the domain of the electronic cube, i.e. throwing gambling on the Internet and other telecommunications equipment and systems, the state has denied the monopoly that has existed for six years, and we see that nothing has been done in this regard. Indeed, when you look at experiences, not only developed countries, but also those less developed, which are transitional, you see that private capital and private initiative delivers much better results than the state. There's no example that the state successfully organized that gambling segment, let's call it the electronic segment. It's just that when a potential loss is calculated in the last six years, how many countries in fact have a monopoly, and it doesn't use it, because it's not able, we see how much society is at risk. That's why we think we missed that opportunity. After all, encouraging private initiative is one of the European values. The exit of the monopoly and the states from the segments of the rejuvenation is also something that we have been pushing for in the LDP since the beginning. What's the state doing on the Internet betting and gambling, not letting other people in? Simply, the sector would get some kind of development as it is natural to get, because these are the most pro-pulsory branches of telecommunications, and they would benefit those who use money from betting, or gambling. We also think that the opportunity has been missed by these amendments to the law that the law on gambling meets the law on associations, I mean Article 38. We understand and have nothing against the current users of money, which is the Red Cross, amateur sport, organisations that care about persons with disabilities and persons with social needs, and that should remain, but, we think, when we look at this Article 38th and the Law on Associations establishing criteria for the budgetary financing of associations that achieve programs of public interest, that it is missed that part of the money, without violating the rights of existing users, goes away and these associations. This is particularly important, given that the budgets play a key role in the financial sustainability of these non-profit organisations, especially in this post-transitional time, when donors who funded such associations and such activities are slowly leaving for other countries whose money is more needed. The fact that we want to include these associations as users of the money collected from gambling would not affect existing acquired rights, and it would have positive budgetary implications from the point of view of optimal use of public resources and budgets. Look, it would encourage competition from a wider circle of areas where the legislator defined public interest. We don't see why part of the money, it's not big money, but in this sector, I'm talking about organizations dealing with human rights, animals, environmental protection, it's all a public interest, it would encourage competition among them, small money. When we look at how much the state spends on subsidies to losers, I can't wait to see the budget proposal for next year, to see what the subsidies are to the railroad. The other day, we voted the state guarantee for 52 million for JAT. It's huge money. This is where we have students strike hunger, because they've made 48 points, and they can't come to the budget, and they can't pay tuition. On the other hand, we are cutting off what is of the public interest, so much at the beginning and infancy in Serbia, that it should be strengthened. We don't think that what we're proposing is some kind of fundamental change that would be difficult to accept for the government. We think and ask that until the vote the government will consider, because it will do something that will not damage anyone, and some people, who are most often volunteering in such associations, will benefit. It will also show on this case that the public interest, as the government sees it, also deserved to be helped through this segment. If we don't have the money, if we have a big budget deficit, if we squeeze from all sides, then certainly the state won't be happier if this little money pinches and moves someone else. It will be much better to find the strength and courage and political will that those great costs, which this country has, we cut down and we all save. So we urge you to consider adding these associations and organizations dealing with public interest, with, say, 6%, to the users of these funds, because we think it will give a great boost to the development of this sector. On the other hand, please respect this, I say, business and capital requirement. We don't have capital, and there are people who would invest in online gambling, via SMS. Why would the state still have a monopoly here? Let the private capital come in here. Set game rules, Odator companies that will control whether everything has happened by law, on various websites where people gamble; you have the "Price Water House" stamp downstairs, or various companies that guarantee that everything is by law, as the legislator has prescribed, and let it revive that activity. If we pass a smoking ban law, and we expect budget revenue from those who remain to smoke, so we increase excises and cigarettes by 20% and the state earns something that is undoubtedly a vice, everyone has a right, has a vice until it endangers others. If the state earns on alcohol, which is also a vice, much bigger than smoking, because the consequences are worse, then this vice, which is called gambling, should be regulated so as to be of interest to everyone, and those who can't give up vice, let them pay for it, but to benefit everyone from it. There, that was what we had as objections to this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47749	Thank you, sir. I'll stay. The word is made by the People's MP Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47750	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, when citizens, as in Serbia right now, are unhappy, unhappy, then it should be no wonder that salvation is trying to find them right in the games of happiness. The organisation of these gambling games is an act of some public importance and general interest and the establishment of such games is the right of the state, which in this particular case has been transferred to the Serbian State lottery. This, unfortunately, ignores the fact that those who earn from these prize games should and must also have a responsibility if something bad happens. This is about a kind of objective responsibility, and if it is well known whose portfolio, who organizes the games, if it and how well it can profit, then, of course, there must be a legal obligation and responsibility to bear consequences for everything that happens. In line with what I have said, it is logical that the State Lottery of Serbia is responsible, but, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, it is, of course, also the State, or the Ministry of Finance, because they are also obliged to oversee the implementation of the Law on Games. I'll just remind the public that no one in Serbia's state lottery has been removed or resigned, nor has he had any responsibility for any huge fraud and robbery of citizens who have easily participated in those, but famous, happy SMS games organised by this particular state house. Indeed, there were both inappropriate and unworthy explanations that came from 'Lutria' that none of the employees were involved in the fraud, because the obligation to organize the game is to ensure the regularity of the game. That the obligation of the editor to ensure the regularity of the game was indirectly confirmed in the already mentioned Ministry of Finance, where it was also announced, that if there were any complaints that arrived at the address of the Board of Games, they were also forwarded to 'Lutrija', since it was the only authority in this matter. Is it particularly important to note that for months in Serbia, it has been said that people who act out winners for a handful of euros appear as prize winners? Even many Internet forums were covered by the statements of participants in these so-called SMSs, especially in those RTS auctions, that they were set up, cheated, that they were disappointed in both 'Lutri' and 'rts', and for God's sakes, and in the state. I would like to remind you that only a month after the end of the RTS bid, the State lottery announced that, thanks to its controls and methods against fraud, it has revealed possible abuses in certain SMS games, followed by the arrest of 14 people as an epilogue. Of course, the RTS College has also denied any responsibility, since they are only broadcasters, not organisers. What is a problem and what will certainly not be resolved by this amendment and the addition of the Law, or any other, is that these financial effects in this whole story will always remain covered by a veil of secrets, so for example, it does not know how much money has been included in the game RTS "LICIATION", or how much part of the cake has been added to "Lutrija", what part of RTS, aside from all this, and especially the fact that the "public service" of the European Serbia, which is financed by the money of citizens, the same financiers and their householders, so to say, has been encouraged by the cube. You know for a fact that RTS and Pink Television, as televisions with national frequencies, practically lists citizens for gambling without warning them of the harmfulness of gambling. I will only remind myself of games like "Loto", "Bing", "Mobta", "Our car to our viewers" and so on, which caused the fact that they are really worrying and humiliating data that in Serbia about three and a half million citizens play some kind of gambling game and that, according to some statistical parameters, every fifth person who shows interest in the game is somehow a pathological gambler, which basically means that about 700,000 people live in Serbia at the risk of this pathological gambling. What did the state do for all this? Of course, nothing. There are some examples in the surrounding countries where 5% of gambling prevention is set aside in Poland, even up to 30%, in Greece. In Serbia, no single dinar has been singled out and there is no understanding in either the Ministry of Health or the government, after all, or in the state lottery, because this is clearly no problem for them. The problem is that most citizens who play these games of chance belong to a group of these problematic, risky gamblers and are on their way to becoming pathological gamblers, and the state has done nothing to resolve this problem by any means of prevention. There are currently between 50,000 and 100,000 pathological gamblers in Serbia and up to 500,000 risky and problematic gamblers. In Belgrade, for example, there were about 300 legal betting places until 2004. The revenue from gambling was 29m euros. By 2009, this figure rose to 256m euros, and in the first three months of this year alone, the figure is even up to five times higher. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what we have today in the assembly procedure, by proposing these amendments and by supplementing the law on gambling, nothing fundamentally changes. I'm free to say that certain changes go hand in hand to illegal objects. What's the basic problem, and what's not even solved by this bill, is that the state lottery monopoly still exists, especially on online betting games, even though practical experiences and from the world show that the state couldn't make a good living anywhere. To the truth, the State lottery has had that license for six years, but the job has started recently, so according to some estimates, the Republic budget, poor and thin, has, in that time, lost some 10m euros due to non-participation of domestic betting in online betting games. It is basically a further outflow of money from the country, because, of course, people will bet with foreign bookmakers. The second thing, or special story, is that criminal policy for illegal gambling. In the opinion of us from the SRS, it is necessary to tighten this policy further, but what can be drawn, roughly, as some conclusion, is that the greatest happiness and greatest gain for Serbian citizens will ever be the departure of this government from power. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47751	It's been used for eight minutes and 20 seconds. The word is Mrs. Lydia Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47752	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are having a debate on two points of the agenda. It has become a practice in the National Assembly to combine the debate on several agenda points, so we are simply surprised when only one draft law is being held, so that MPs do not have the opportunity to say all they need to say about what is on the agenda, but they have to schedule time in relation to the number of laws that have been united. I'm going to say more about the bill of amendments and additions to the law on gambling. At a time of great crisis, gambling is one of the most profitable activities. People lose their jobs, many and no acquired assets, some entrepreneurs fail. There's a whole army of workers on the labour market who can't get a job, start a life of their own, take care of themselves, form a family. In such conditions, hope dies last, hoping that, despite everything bad, something good will happen, that happiness will smile, and people are mass playing games of chance. Anyone who gives even the smallest bet expects that he will be the one to whom the promised reward will belong. In the light of the adoption of this law, this is confirmed what I'm talking about, more specifically, it's written that bringing games to happiness in our country is a specific activity that is in great expansion. This confirms that the crisis we're in is big and long. Since 2004, when it was adopted, this law has not changed, and here it is now changing 47 members of the law. I'll look back on a few amendments to this bill. I will proceed with an analysis by Article 2 which amends Article 5(2) of the basic law. The remark refers to the new formulation of the beneficiaries of 40% of the budget, which is more specifically to the introduction of other associations, which aim to improve the socio-economic and social situation of persons with disabilities and other persons in a state of social need, besides the organisations with disabilities. The position of the SRS, when it comes to all these associations, is known. We don't trust them at all. A few days ago, when we held a debate on the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism, we had the opportunity to hear from colleagues Boris Aleksic very interesting information about associations and NGOs. Of course, I won't repeat it now, but I will confirm our position that the government is persistently trying to re-emphasise the role of the NGO sector and association, to involve them too much in all spheres, and that we have had opportunities to hear from our colleagues, and significant funds are committed to their work. The position of persons with special needs or disability in Serbia is not at an enviable level. On the contrary, the SRS also insists that the improvement of the position of these fellow citizens must be done much more intensively, and the precondition for this is the allocation of financial resources for them. In no case must new associations be established, which in their name will make them work to improve the situation of disabled people. Teached by many experiences so far with associations, we are not sure that this will not lead to abuse, that the funds will go to someone who, like, works there, and that people with disabilities will remain deprived of the significant resources they need. As far as Article 12 is concerned, The draft law amends Article 28 paragraph 3 of the basic law, so that after these changes in the determination of profits will not be made public. It's a little hard for us from the SRS to believe that the representatives of the government, who swear to transparency every day, are now doing these things. It is explained that the determination of the winnings is done by the Commission for the determination of profits, i.e. by the Central Treasury of the Serbian State lottery, and for this reason cannot be made public. Article 14 divided into basic classic games of chance and other classic games of chance. The goal of this division is to make differences between them in the Fund of Wins belonging to the winners. For basic classical winning funds, 50% remains, while other classical funds are defined at 10%. The main goal of what you're doing is that far more funds go to the game manager's budget, and less potential prize winners. Here is even an interesting table that illustrates how much it will belong to after the adoption of these proposed changes. It is also extremely interesting that certain amendments to this law try to be seen as an intention to take care of even regional development. I am talking about article 17, which says - that the Government, in a public invitation to give permission to perform special gambling games in toys, lists the territory to which the toy will be located, and all in order to create new jobs in less developed regions. I'm going to go back to what I said at the beginning, that when people in difficult times are left without much, the hope that they'll look at them is getting bigger. Probably the promoter of these changes thinks that in less developed regions, gambling will experience an even bigger expansion. As for Article 35, as well as most parents and I believe that bookies and machines should be away from school. However, this bill provides that such objects cannot be less than 200 meters away, when we read the amendment carefully, we see that this is not the case. I will read exactly how the new position 2 –''The distance from the position of the 1st member is the shortest walking path from the building of educational institutions (basic and secondary schools) to the entrance to the facilities where games of happiness, betting and automatics are held. '"This means that from the entrance door of the school to the door of the bookies and the machine must not be less than 200 meters. But many schools have large courtyards, in the yard sports courts, and then we have more than 200 meters, which means that right next to the school yard fence, according to this law, you can find an object in which games of happiness, betting and machines are held, because the school is in one part of the yard, and next to the fence can happen to open such an object. This solution is much worse than the last one. I want to say one more thing about Article 39, which I think is very unfair, because legal persons or entrepreneurs are not allowed to play prize games as before. So the number of prize games has been reduced over the year, and the duration of the prize game has been limited to 60 days. The reason for this is that a large number of prize games, in goods and services, during the year their advertising through the media, makes it difficult for Serbia's state lottery to operate. It is legitimate that all companies, all legal entities, have the opportunity to allocate as much funds for this type of promotion as they consider necessary and then, because of the reduction in the number of prize games and the duration of time, amortise the amount belonging to the prize-playing budget, it is necessary to invest 25% in the budget from the total value of the prize fund. I will, just for a little while, comment on Article 45, which introduces new amounts for penalties for those who do not respect the law on gambling. It has been reported that there have been a lot of these violations in the past few years. The terms and penalties are ridiculous. The question is, why is it that only now has the law decided to change and that punishments are something more? This is what I'm going to end up with, since my colleagues have a lot more to say, since there's a debate going on about two draft laws. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47753	It's been used for ten minutes and thirty seconds. The People's Messenger Mirko Munjic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47754	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Minister, we've just heard from your presentation on these two draft laws, the tobacco law and the law on amendments and additions to the law on gambling, that the basic criteria that the state has led to when it proposed amendments and complements these laws are the need to regulate this matter in one essential way, as you say, a more complete way, to round up this, as Mr. Minister said, industry. I'm talking about gambling. I'd say it's a real industry, both by the number of participants in this business and by the volume of funds that turn around in these so-called gambling games. In addition, the goal of the state is to reduce the number of directors of this cube, all in order to better and more efficiently fill the budget. And this is the mere truth of these changes and the addition of the law on gambling – better and more efficient budgeting. Through a ban on the entry of minors into these casinos, the minister said, he wants to send a clear message to young people and their parents. However, here, Mr. Minister, some essential questions are raised. It's not just sending a message, there are some very serious and essential questions here that how the basic law on games of chance, and these amendments and additions of the law cannot be solved. Can this law, both basic and these amendments and additions to the law on gambling, solve the question of the collapse of thousands and thousands of young people who have been cut into cubes or is the country's priority just to fill the budget? I think this is another matter, that the state has no way of solving any problems. Why is it that the state of those who are deeply entangled in the cube simply doesn't call the team "the gamblers", but they're for the country of "players" and that's lucky?- I'm sorry. We've heard that about 3.5 million people, according to some research, played or played some form of these so-called gambling games, that there are about 700,000 people in some way in the claws of the cube, deep in the claws of the cube. Why doesn't the state itself organise these games and finance many so-called gambling, warn, when it does, that this is about gambling, that it can be devastating for young people? On the contrary, the state encourages these games. Just imagine that bizarre warning - you can't send more than a thousand text messages from one phone, Mr. Minister, well, that's crazy, it's totally dislocated. And that's what the state does! Next, what else does the state do? It, by the way, through these harmless games of chance creates actually preconditions for further uncontrollable gambling. This only spreads the risk of developing disease pathologically dependent on the cube. And the consequences of this disease, pathological disease from the cube, are fatal, especially for young people. In this business, or, as the minister said, industry is rapidly involved with trustees' networks, agencies that borrow money, there are, then, debt seekers, powerful mechanisms to recover lost money, etc. And then, these problems are just being solved. How do they get rid of them? Usually, selling apartments and other properties, borrowing and new borrowing, new loans and so on. Then, Mr. Minister, in this one of yours, as you say, the industry appears as debt seekers. Thousands of broken families, thousands of failed marriages, thousands and tens of thousands of homeless men by gambling. What's the consequence of all this, with these people, especially young people? Depression, stronger mental disorders, often physical illnesses, are themselves some of the more severe cases that occur as a result of this monster. The next question that can be asked is – can the state deal with these phenomena in one serious and systematic way? Mr. Minister, gambling is the devil's business! We have often had the opportunity to see the confessions of some gamblers, too, to read the confessions of some people who made this vice, to see what happened to them, both to them and their families, and don't forget, all of this country has made it very clear. You know, I said, we had a lot of opportunities to read about it, one gambler in one day's list told him that, simply, the devil lured him into the cube, that the devil drew him on, and as if, he says, someone else is in control of my hand. And in the meantime, he says, my fingers and hands are shaking as I wait for my never-ending happiness. Imagine how difficult it is for both this man and his family and society in general. And I'm saying, more and more young people have grown into these vices. Whether you want to admit it or not, it's not gambling, it's gambling. These gamblers dream of their eternal dream of winning, a dream that never comes true. They don't just invest their money in this cube, they invest their reputation and health, and ambition, and ultimately, their family. In the end, as we all know, they enter the world of greens, into the world of debt seekers, into the world of vice, into the world of hopelessness, and then we wonder, why does the young generation do this to us? Why do many young people fail like that? As a state of prevention responds to all this? So, does the state even react preventively? It is true that these are finance laws, but is there co-operation with other ministries when it comes to these areas? Is there co-operation with the Ministry of Health and other ministries? Looks like he's gone. Because it's obvious that the state is working very little on prevention in these cases. As the state responds, Mr. Minister, I hope you're familiar with another problem, at the emergence of more and more private clinics, which are reportedly dealing with the rapid healing of these pathological gamblers. There are more and more of them in Belgrade, you know that for sure. They offer their services for several thousand euros and offer quick cure. And in fact, it's about a new kind of matchmaking, with sick people, with poor people, with people who've cut into vice cubes. These are all questions that this law simply has no answer. Or you don't want to give that answer. You don't solve that answer through the proposals of these laws. You know, that cube is such a vice that there is no pill that can suppress that desire to gamble. That's why it's a very dangerous vice. What about our youth, you say a little bit in your exposure that you want to send a message to young people and their families that the state wants to take care of them, that it wants to make sure that young people don't get into those casinos, but is that enough, what brings those young people to the casinos?- I'm sorry. It is a hopelessness in which boredom, modernity, parents are becoming less and less concerned with their children for solving their existential problems. And it's the fault of this country and this government. These are all the problems that, as the basic law, and the amendments and additions of this law do not solve. The aim is to fill the budget and that is the fundamental intensity of this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47755	Thank you. 11 minutes and 10 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47756	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are witnessing that in the last 15 or 20 years two phenomena have prevailed over Serbia. There may have been traces of them before, but they are now particularly pronounced, and that is whenever society, when the state is in crisis, when the state has no answer to the elemental existential and national issues. These two phenomena then escalate in social. The first is the appearance of a doorman, a reader of fate, a prophet, and various black and white Magogs, a writer of horoscopes. Since the state cannot answer that, to the existential question of an individual, it is looking in horoscopes, at the doorman, for answers to the questions that plague it. The second is a dramatic increase in the number of gambling players, as well as the emergence of new forms and new ways of these games of chance. The state, mostly, tolerates these phenomena. Because at first they create an illusion that it'll be better tomorrow, that it's about to get better. As soon as we get through this crisis, it'll be better, and tomorrow, it'll mostly turn into a little tomorrow. Second, when this illusion falls, it causes terrible personal and family breakdowns. Because a man understands the objectlessness, realizes that in the future there's no light at the end of the tunnel, because that power has stalled, and it doesn't provide for the future. Another example also creates an illusion that one gain will solve all or almost all the material problems in the family. The illusion falls the moment the last funds are emptied personally and familyly, causing a financial breakdown, a family collapse, which again causes family breakdowns. The reason the state tolerates this, and we've heard for a while that it's a disease, that it's not fun anymore, that it's entertainment, that it's not some kind of hope, but that it's becoming more and more disease. The reason the state tolerates you clearly wrote, Mr. Minister, in Article 14. In the reasoning of Article 14, you are unequivocally saying that the state tolerates this precisely because the ex post funds will flow into the budget. The fact that even the last church girl is getting out of her pocket to fill in the lottery ticket and that she's hoping that he's going to stab someone, a "week" and solve all the problems, the state doesn't seem to be interested. I will state a part of the explanation when it is said – for illustrating the economic justification of the division, because you are now sharing gambling on the classic basic and classical others, the percentage of the minimum winning fund for other classic games has been reduced. So you are unequivocally saying that this law reduces the fund of profits from 50 to 10%, and you give an estimate – during 2009 the turnover of gambling, which according to the proposed amendments to the Law were classified in the category of other gambling games, amounted to about a billion dinars. In line with the proposed amendments to the Law, the budget would be bigger if you remembered to pass this law to vote in the Assembly, to press your 126 buttons and to vote, the budget would be higher by 240 million dinars. And that, even by a table, you explain; if the billion is in the current law, the billion in the proposed, the 500 winnings fund in force, and now 100 million in this proposed, the basis for the compensation for the performance is 500 in the old, and now 900 in the proposed and the State's compensation from 300 goes to 540 million, or 240 million more. But you say here -- and the rest of the director needs to be raised from 200 to 360, so, the editor, the one who legally puts his hand in his pocket and the worst of the poor, determines that there are 160 million more dinars. The cube, we said, is a disease. My colleague gave a little bit of statistical information that there are about 100,000 greasy gamblers in Serbia, who in the morning when he wakes up doesn't think he's going to provide the child with a liter of milk, otherwise for a milk shortage it's also the government's fault, but it's going to provide a liter of milk, but it's going to run into the bookshop that even the last penny out of his pocket is for the cube. Also, my colleague said there are about 500,000 latent, potential gamblers. If you continue this way, there will soon be 6,000,000 gamblers in Serbia, but there will be nothing to gamble with, as personal budgets, family budgets are getting thinner and thinner. Today, more than half of Serbia is starving for you. The cube is a disease, like a drug, like a drug addict, like an alcoholic. The state would have to, if it were to take care of a citizen, find a way not to treat alcoholics or drug addicts as well, but as you should treat drug addicts and alcoholics, so you also treat those who gamble. On the contrary, you've allowed in the last law that within 150 meters of school, and now you've raised two bandits when laid down, that's 50 meters, so 200 meters from school should not be an open casino. Well, those who have crossed 151 meters will now cross 201 meters, and 11% of young people are already well entering your casinos, also 11% of young people already in the family have family problems because they are going to the casino. First, they ignore school, and secondly, how they come up with funds that will be paid into casinos. If you had taken a little more care of yourself, I think you could solve this problem in a slightly different way and then we'd have a little healthier youth and a little healthier views of life and the world. It is particularly unacceptable and indicative of article 19. Are you, Mr. Djelic, making a new gambling Yugoslavia now?- I'm sorry. He says, "The state lottery of Serbia can, with the previous consent of the Government," and will get it, because why not, "to play the games of article 14 of this law," so these, other classic games of chance, "in co-operation with foreign gambling organisations, founded by foreign states. In addition to the request for consent laid down in Article 1, the draft agreement on the joint organisation of gambling shall be submitted, containing the basic elements of the contract. The rights and obligations between Serbia's state lottery and the editors of the 1st article's stance are regulated by the agreement, which is given by the government's consent. '"I mean, Mr. Chairman, you don't count on me this time, because I quote a member to be discussed. This Article 19a opens the door to incredible manipulation, because you are unable to establish even state control of this area, unfortunately, and how will you yet establish international control? It's impossible to organize a control of the funds, which are thin anyway, and so bloody, and which the sick people have already invested, I'm not talking about that part that pays the lottery out of entertainment, so, so, wait. But today, he's going to pay out of entertainment, and the next day he's going to pay all the time, and so on. This opens up the possibility that huge money, huge financial resources from this country, through so-called gains, will be poured into the surrounding countries, because what you are now writing in article 19a is already being discussed back two months and are already being prepared by organisations that organise gambling in neighboring countries to sign contracts with us. I think a deal has already been reached with Republika Srpska for some gambling, but now the Federation is entering BiH, entering Croatia, and we are entering contracts, and we are going out with huge money that their players are going to get. Mr. Minister, I think it's the smartest thing you can do, and you still have time to do it, to pull this law out of the process, to sort it out a little bit, to sort it out a little bit, to take care of the social category of society in Serbia, to take care of the dangers that this area puts out in itself, and to pass some other law, which, with strict limitations and strict reserves, will be adopted in the Assembly. Like this, I don't think the SRS can vote for this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47757	Ten minutes and 50 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Now, based on Article 87(1), I'm setting a break of one hour and continuing at 15.00 hours. Thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47758	People's MPs continue the session of the Assembly in the afternoon debate, and by order of the MPs, according to the application for a word in the joint principled search on proposals for the law on the 1st and 2nd part of the agenda. Before I give my word to the next speaker on the application, just to inform the National Assembly, on the basis of Articles 90, paragraph 2 and Article 87, that we will be working today after 1800 hours and the debate that is under way, until we have completed the debate that is under way. The People's Messenger Nikola Savic has the word, and after him is the Messenger Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47759	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are considering amending and supplementing two laws: the Law on Tobacco and the Law on Games on Happiness. Of course, it is not necessary to stress that it is extremely important laws, since the preparation and application of these laws depends to the greatest extent on the way in which the Republic of Serbia's budget is filled. Since a united debate is being held, most of my colleagues have spoken more about the Law on Games on Happiness, so I will look back and talk about this second law, the Law on Tobacco. When looking at this law, it can be observed that the main reason, at least that is stated, for the amendments and additions of this law is a comprehensive reform of the rules, i.e. the guillotine of the regulations, as is commonly said today. However, if this is indeed the case and if this is the main motive for amending and supplementing this law, then what about reform, i.e. the guillotine of regulations in other areas, in other laws, because these things should take place parallelly, this process also in other laws? We would then, in that case, if this were indeed the main reason, we would urgently have to approach changing a huge number of laws, which may be necessary, probably necessary, but it would be impossible in a short time to accomplish it all. I simply think that the amendment to this law, I'm talking about the tobacco law, has led you to something else, and what is something else, we'll see, or we'll show time. A representative of the government who explained this legislation here to the MPs, Mr Djelic, whom I do not see here, however, there is Minister Milosavljevic, told MPs that ten years ago the traffic of tobacco products was at 90% in these smuggling illegal channels. He also said that now, at present, it's a very different situation, that it's all put into legal flows. He also mentioned that the activity related to this area, which relates to the free shops, was reduced to the least possible. I would really like that, but if you look at the provisions of some members of the law, above all those provisions relating to the placing on the market of tobacco products that will be sold in airplanes and ships leaving our country, we see that these provisions can lead to great abuses. Maybe there's an answer here to my question from the beginning of the story, that maybe this is one of the main reasons why they change and supplement this law. In line with this, one can wonder if Serbia has or is preparing its Milo Djukanovic, because Milo Djukanovic is known to be a master in this area. He also smuggled tobacco with airplanes, ships, and speedboats, and all other means, and thus created his empire, and one of the reasons why Montenegro is ruling today. But, well, it's not a topic, I see that Mrs. Komic is looking at me, not the topic of Montenegro and Milo Djukanovic, but his relationship with tobacco are as well known as anyone. To go back to the law, this law provides in one place that general messages on tobacco products can also be written in a foreign language. Of course, I can agree with that, and there is nothing disputed that in special cases when it is sought by law that these messages can be written in a foreign language, but since these are still products produced in the Republic of Serbia, I think it would be necessary for these messages to be written in Serbian as well. At least it's easy when it comes to a pack of cigarettes, on the one hand it can be written in a foreign language, whether it's English, French, or others entirely, depending on the country it's being transported to, and on the other hand, in Serbian to be seen in some way, where these cigarettes come from. This may be one of the criteria where it could be established whether there is a possible abuse of this provision. They are particularly interesting in this law to analyse the effects of the adoption of this law. They're completely cobwebs, and I'd say they're funny. That's exactly what the law says. It literally says that it only assumes how, how and in whom these legal solutions and their effects can influence. Of course, any law that is passed, regardless of the area to which the action is concerned, must be precise, to be clear, that there is no flat-rate interpretation, of the approximately interpretation of the expected effects, but the legislator here in the analysis of these effects had to and should have made clear what was expected of the effects of the adoption of this law. It is also said that the proposed solutions under this law will affect economic operators, whose activity is prescribed by the provisions of this law. Of course, it wasn't even necessary to put it, it's a thing that goes by itself. I suppose the effects of this law will not apply to the products of the heavy industry or any other industry that has nothing to do with tobacco. Now you can see again from all of this that only one positive effect of this law is listed, and this positive effect is a significant reduction in transport costs in the environment. On the other hand, however, it has continued to avoid telling whom and how, and to what extent this law generates additional costs, and certainly there will be such. Now, to go back to this only positive effect of this law you're showing here, I really need to be honest. Transport costs will be slightly reduced, but will be negligiblely reduced. In general, they will almost have no positive or negative effect on business entities at all. The wholesalers and manufacturers have so far used the means of transport intended for the transport of tobacco, which is what the practice has shown. retailers, who are involved in the traffic of tobacco products and have so far carried these products with other goods and a man who has a jeweler, since I come from Nis, and come, let's say, from Dimitrovgrad to get for his little jeweler, and we know how the dragsters are doing today, will not be coming with two vehicles, not until now. Of course, now the law allows him to do it together, which is good. But again, they're not particularly positive effects or any special relief, because that's what's been done so far. Then, the law further argues that the number of economic operators involved in the traffic of tobacco products will increase. Now I'm asking you, Mr. Minister, maybe you're not the only one in charge of this, how will the number of businesses dealing with tobacco products increase? We have passed the most rigorous law, perhaps even in Europe, about smoking bans and witnesses, whenever we pass the street by some institution, some schools, hospitals, etc., that people, literally, under some roofs, hide under some trees as little children when they hide something from their parents, so probably, many of them, when they realize and when they're overstepped by this measure of humiliation and leave the tobacco, so I don't think they're going to increase the number of economic operators dealing with the traffic of these products, on the contrary, I think that this number of subjects will be reduced. Not to mention the standards that our citizens have. It's come to the fact that people give up cigarettes and everything. Something small they have in their wallets, buying milk and what is most necessary for their children. In particular, it will be present in the New Year's Eve, as announced, to increase excise duties on tobacco products. However, I must say that tobacco products are mostly with prices lower in our country than in the environment, but if they translate by product unit according to the receipts, it turns out, again, that our average man, the average citizen, has to spend more percent of his salary on cigarettes. I'm not saying this, I'm not a smoker, I used to be, I'm lucky I'm not anymore, but I'm just objectively speaking because of a large number of people who are smokers. Since the sale or privatisation of our largest tobacco factory "Duvanian Nis", the number of business entities we talked about here has been getting smaller and shrinking. We're changing the law for nothing, and we're saying that there will be an increase in the number of economic operators. It's not true, it's going to shrink, and the analysis has shown that they're just shrinking. Not only did you sell the largest tobacco factory, I have to say, as I come from Nis, it also destroyed tobacco producers, the largest number in southern Serbia. You know, Mr. Minister, probably many others in the government, that these people, tobacco producers from southern Serbia, have been suing the state of Serbia for years, suing Philip Morris, have had exceptional problems. Unfortunately, I can't exercise my rights. They're often forced to strike. Recently, in Nis, they strike in front of the Court of Appeals, even some strike hunger, but no one in this government has been found to help these people. Together with the tobacco factory, not only are these tobacco producers destroyed, but perhaps the most this country has lost, we practically gave our market, not to mention how much of the tobacco factory belonged to local self-government. The sale of the "Duvanska Industry Nis" is the largest privatisation that has brought the most money into Serbia's budget. Unfortunately, Nis didn't see anything or very little of it. And that little they got representatives of the ruling elite in Nis, they didn't even know they were using it. I'm finishing this story of mine slowly. Transport of tobacco products is a monopoly, it's a matter for every country to have and there is no and there must be no indulgence. Here, let's say, in Nis, since I'm from there, Nis is over 100 years old, some, 130 years of tradition in tobacco and tobacco production, one building, where once a long time ago there was a purchase and processing of tobacco products and today, citizens of Nis call themselves "Old Monopoly". They say I'll see you at the Old Monopoly. It's still saying that the state can't make a single mistake here, but it doesn't exactly make a single mistake, because every dime of tobacco product traffic is meant for the budget, and unfortunately, we've had a chance to see that there were a lot of abuses in this area in the past years. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47760	14 minutes and 25 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. You can have another minute and 15 seconds. The word is a folk letter from Zlata Đeric, and after it is the Messenger of the people Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47761	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, since we have received amendments and additions to these two laws, on gambling and tobacco, which at first have little in common, we have at least a hint that Mrs. Diana Dragutinovic will be in front of the government who will defend these laws, but it seems that you and Mr. Djelic have not had much luck, you have drawn the shortest straw and today you have to defend these laws, or amendments and additions. What luck Parliament is, it is exactly so that every year all the laws we make after a few months we have to change. So much for their effectiveness and seriousness brought before the National Assembly. I would not very much analyse these two bill proposals, because my colleague, Aleksandra Jankovic, will be dealing with the very changes and additions of the law on gambling. I will refer only to amendments and additions to the tobacco law. When we looked at this whole proposal, except for Articles 1, 4, 7, 11, 14, and 15, which harmonize some legal norms with some existing acts and laws, in order for it to be applicable, we paid attention to why they are being adopted. It is clear that any such alterations and additions are made to exclude someone from something, so that someone who was disturbed by a law might be able to solve their ballast or difficulties that the law imposed on him and then we came to this famous member of the 16th. Article 16, which is otherwise corrected, is complemented by Article 67 of the existing Law, says that Article 67 after Article 4 adds Article 5, but before I read it, I will read what that Article 1 requires the exemption: "The manufacturer, or the importer of tobacco products, is obliged to pre-market tobacco products to set retail prices for these products and report them to the Authority. ''Then it says what the law now offers as a change: 'exceptionally from the attitude of 1st member of the manufacturer, or the importer of tobacco products is not obliged to fix and report retail prices of tobacco products, when these products are shipped for sale in aircraft and ships' otherwise, we do not have the sea, 'which traffic on international lines, as well as on products which are prepared for free customs shops opened at airfields opened for international traffic in which passport and customs controls are organised for sale to passengers in accordance with customs regulations. "Translated in daily language, about three years ago, I think Mr. Djelic, because I am sorry that he is not here, he just said – there will never be a duty-free shop again, and this is the return to what we are reluctant to say and what everyone likes to use, like, in some political floscule, this is exactly the return of that Milosevic's time when they were a duty-free shop. This is at the small door of the bootlegger's opening. If we know we don't have the sea, and the ships are mentioned here, then we're talking about river traffic. I come from Somboro, I know what 'Nosdan', 'Apatin', entrance marinas and everything else that comes to the Danube. I know that the river barges that go in the direction of Germany are actually ideal places for smuggling. And, I think the next step will be, I could even bet with you, and the living have been seen, opening a duty-free shop at all customs crossings. It's actually what this member needs to make possible, and behind that is all that is left, that extraprofit and everything else that can be done on a small, and legally, the door is like this introduced into the tobacco law. Now, I'm just gonna talk about this article so much. I'm leaving the rest of my time to my colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47762	The People's Messenger Mirko Chikiriz has the word, followed by the Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. I'm just asking you to sign up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47763	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, these two amendments and additions of very important laws are one indicator and they are part of a series of indicators that open up a dilemma which, by the way, came out of a society that until just 10 years ago was a society of broken institutions, a society of chaos, a society in which 90% of tobacco traffic went to an illegal black market, a society in which then tobacco smugglers were loved by the authorities and a society in which they were headed on the frontlines of the controversy that would take over the tobacco market or part of the tobacco market, and we were also witnesses of the daily armed accounts of the smuggling mob. In tobacco smuggling, we know that many government officials were involved, as well as many police officers. And what we are interested in as representatives of our political party, as the only right hand on the list for European Serbia who wants to see orderly, rich and happy Serbia, is – why are those who then closed their eyes to this indisputable fact, today the greatest critics of these amendments and the addition of the law? Amendments and additions to the law have imposed time that nothing has been done in these two areas, the very fact that both the two areas have put one and the other legislation into legal flows, that the income of the Republic of Serbia has been significantly improved, and through excise duties and taxes from tobacco and humanitarian organisations and the Red Cross and local self-government, because, don't forget, 40% of the funds go to local self-government, and that is, again, part of some decentralisation, above all, financial Serbia. We have said several times in this assembly, that the SPO will support everything that goes in terms of improving the financial position of local self-government with both hands. It seems to me that in the case of amendments and addition of the tobacco law, the most important fact is that the costs of transport will be significantly saved and that, of course, with the prescribed conditions of packaging, tobacco can be transported with other goods. There remains a question mentioned by some MPs – will this provision regarding free-shops, ships and planes leaving our country open up the possibility of possible abuses? It is possible, but the SPO expects the state to behave seriously in that part as well. I think that, for the public's sake, it should be said, because the debate on this law has touch points and with the law that we recently passed, about the ban on smoking, but it also opens up some other topics and dilemmas. No one mentioned today, and I think it is important to say that, as far as the price of cigarettes is concerned, there is a burden per pack in EU countries on average of around 2.5 euros and that there is between 0.5 and 0.7 euros in Serbia, which means the least burden. Only Macedonia is lower with taxes and excise duties, it participates with 0.4%, Slovenia with 1.9%, Croatia with 1.7%, Bosnia and Herzegovina with 0.7%. I want to say that it's a good thing that the state acted like this, because, in addition to respecting the standard of citizens, it is also aware that the increase in excise duties increases the smuggling of cigarettes at the same time, because people then turn to the black market. There's no money to consume more expensive cigarettes, and that gives us a big space to see what we've seen in these areas. Of course, we will not see this, but it is interesting that our neighbour Bulgaria has become a member of the EU and that during sanctions a large flow of illegal cigarettes has gone from Bulgaria to Serbia, regardless of the degree of cigarette smuggling is negligible, however, it is noted that there is an illegal flow of cigarettes from Serbia to Bulgaria. And I don't think anyone mentioned today, they mentioned several times a fellow border crossing of Gredina and Dimitrovgrad, they should commend customs officers who, not only for that, but also narcotics, to a large extent and a large number of times, responded to their basic mission. As for changing the Law on Games, I think the biggest dilemma is quite justified about gambling facilities, whether they should be away from educational institutions 150 or 200 meters away. I agree with the assessment of some respected colleagues, that an increase in distance from 150 may have some effect, but not at all, but in any case, some people who are engaged in this activity can either force or stop at that location to deal with this activity or not at all deal with this activity. The revenues from gambling are really significant, because statistics show that in Serbia there are now about 1,300 payment and payment places from gambling, and only up to a few years ago there were only 300, that more than ten times the income of the state from gambling, which again shows, from what we are the dark period of our society, one period in which truly financial flows were dominantly directed towards the illegal and black market, how difficult it is to enter normal flows. I don't think all people involved in gambling should call them sick people, like some respected colleagues did today, or they're people who are capable of pathology. I think that only in 1980, based on numerous research, only pathological gambling, it's a gambling where all the sense of life and all of its activities comes down to the cube, success or failure of the cube, that it's defined as one of the impulse disorders such as kleptomania or pyromania, and that society is actively involved in the treatment of these people, who are often left without property because of their vices, fall into depression, over-indebted, selling immobilities, breaking up marriages, and often, and most often, their families cover their debts. The fact is that it was not until 2005 that something similar was done and that a department dealing with this problem was opened at the Institute for Disease Treatment of Dependence. I think all the structures of society, of education structures, of professional services at health institutions, should contribute to the healing of pathological gamblers. It should separate all those people who participate in gambling, who are not in a state of addiction and who have no such relationship either with their own property or with their family’s property. It seems to me that with these amendments and the addition of the law, too, attention should be paid to who the gambling machines are obtained from, whether they are indeed qualified producers with certain standards or are so-called copies. I think that the very fact that the great income of the Republic of Serbia is from gambling, gambling has existed since mankind exists, that much more advanced, in every respect of the country and economic and political and however you wish, have an organised system of gambling. In my opinion, only Los Angeles, it's a city of cubes and vice, in which, not as in our society, which is a typical society of transitions and mostly cubes, people with a shallow pocket, who may see some chance of solving some of their existential problems, for God's sakes, in Los Angeles and some other states, it's a privilege of the rich. What is the desire of us from the SPO, it is, that we see a society where the rich will gamble, but it will not endanger the existence of a company or part of a state system, in which the middle layer and lower layer of the population will be able to live on their profits. Due to the fact that the already established order is improving in these two areas, the SPO MPs will vote in favour of the two legislative proposals within the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47764	Ten minutes and 33 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk MP Srdjan Milivojevic, and he is the last registered speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47765	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, but above all, the respected citizens of Serbia, when we pass laws in this assembly, we are guided by several important maxes and important principles. First of all, when we make laws, we make laws by making sure that we put out that thirst and the need to create a better man, because first of all, the law needs to create a better man, then a more human society, and eventually the law has to create a more rational state. But it should always be kept in mind that the will of the state will be stronger than the habit of individuals and it is always expressed and expressed through one law. However, today when we passed laws and listened to various arguments of these laws, we had the opportunity to survive those good old 90s in a brief presentation and to remember that these areas were arranged at the time of the general chaos, when nothing in this country was arranged. I am absolutely convinced that my colleagues are being thrown, it clearly indicates that these two areas are perfectly well arranged so that many illegal activities in this country are being organised from gray cash flows, from tobacco smuggling, from gambling, from organising illegal gambling. When the state and the majority decide to regulate these areas through laws and legislation, there is always criticism from those who express regret for the old days, when everyone could do whatever they wanted and when everyone could support themselves, their political party, their political ideas and their political ambitions from cigarette smuggling. I'll talk about both laws. First of all, I want to say that in 10 years, the democratic government, which did not have a very clear continuity in those 10 years, had been regulated by the tobacco market, from a mess where you bought cigarettes on the street and didn't know where you bought them from, and where that money ended up, that there was a situation for every pack of cigarettes sold to follow a fiscal bill and that with that pack of cigarettes, there was an excise stamp and that every citizen knew every moment he gave the state how much money from every smoked cigarette and what was done with that money. It's a big advantage of organized societies and orderly states. We can argue about how this money should be deployed and to whom it should be given, but we certainly can't say that it's bad that we live in an orderly system of values, in an orderly society where three of the world's largest cigarette manufacturers are present on the Serbian market, when we have a domestic cigarette manufacturer and when we have, on the other hand, an orderly area from which once gray emissions, from gray cash flows, funded everything and everything in this country, from killing political opponents, beating political opponents on the street, beating students, to various other activities, including wars. Through this law, which we have on the agenda today, we have some changes and these changes show that the law lives through practice and that we accept after six or seven years of the objections and suggestions of those people, because in a certain way we have arranged this area, so that now the main item in the law amending the tobacco law refers to the possibility of cigarettes being transported together with other goods only if they do not affect the quality of other goods and do not change the organoleptic properties of these goods. That's how we went out to meet those other people and distributors, and that's how we went out to meet and economics, because we want to cheape certain services, and that's what only the citizens of this country will benefit from. I also want to say something about the bill of amendments and additions to the law on gambling. Once upon a time, this area was an area covered by criminal groups. In the past, this area served exclusively to fund the mafia, to fund crime, to finance illegal activities, but, unfortunately, also to finance certain political parties who through their discussion have shown regret for the good old times, for them good, but, you know, when something is good only for someone and for all normal people in this country – evil, it speaks of who it is good and less about who it was bad for. When we talk about amendments to the law on gambling in general, I would like to remind myself that we once had only 300 registered payment places, and that there are now over 1,300, not because Serbian citizens' interest in the cube has increased, but because the state has arranged this area and other social activities in this country are being financed today. The question arises – what is a cube? Is it a gamble when someone plays the lottery, when someone buys a lucky Serbian State lottery, or is it a gamble when someone goes to the bookies and pays the ticket or is it a gamble when someone plays the roulette? It's all gambling. The gambling is an area the state of Serbia has decided to settle as civilized countries do. I have several objections to previous presentations, first of all, when we talk about Article 2 of this law, where it is said that part of the funds of the Republic of Serbia's budget of 40% will be used to finance the "Red Cross of Serbia", an organisation of persons with disabilities and other associations aimed at improving the social, economic and social situation of people with disabilities. My colleagues remarked that money should be given exclusively to the organizations of the disabled society, and not to some other organisations that are taking care of them, because, allegedly, "the foreign arm of the itch doesn't scratch" and no one knows better the problems of people with disabilities to themselves. I believe that there are many organisations in Serbia that and how they take care of people with disabilities, and, on the other hand, they have a comprehensive field of action. True, there have been various abuses, various gambling games, including various humanitarian funds in the past, we have witnessed this in the past. But, you know, it's like going to a football game: people don't go to a football game because somebody gets a red card, they go for nice moves, good goals, attractive moves, good and effective games, and, in that football game, they're looking for the best thing they want to see, and why they bond to that football game, and not the worst. Now we can bring out a dozen of the worst examples of human funds abuse, but what about those best examples, which are and how to help certain people with disabilities? What about those best examples of people who took their time, their money and helped and arranged that area? Here, very maliciously, article 14 was quoted as saying – that the other classic games will have at least 10% of the total value of the payments received for participation in the game, and that 10% was the topic of discussion of certain MPs, where they claimed it was exactly 10%, and the law says – at least 10%. There's a big difference between "at least 10%" and "only 10%". Because at least 10% doesn't say what is the maximum, the maximum can be up to 50%. What I can accept as a criticism and I have to express it, when it comes to amending this gambling law, is Article 28. This member could have been more specific because, they say, Article 68(1) – says 180 euros a year is replaced by the words '25 euros a month'. It could have been added there – in dinar equivalent and on the middle course of the NBS on the day of payment, as it is still a money means of payment in Serbia. Perhaps since many opposition MPs intervened with the amendments, it can be accepted. In the end, we heard several very interesting interpretations by certain people from the opposition, who mocked the fact that these two laws are, in fact, in particular, amendments and additions to the tobacco law, resulting, those "gillotine regulations". That's what I'm gonna do with my exposure. Goodness and justice are the highest goals of the law. Law writers must look beyond their time. If you mind the guillotine regulations, I'll just tell you something I heard at the market in Kruševec when I spoke to the citizens who commented on the guillotine regulations. They told me -- it's a good guillotine of regulations, but the French once had "the guillotine of legislators" for those bad laws in their history. I think it's good that through these laws we regulate these areas to the extent of every citizen and civilised and developed state. With these laws, Serbia does not cost any of the budget. With these laws, Serbia is fixing its budget picture and with these laws, Serbia is creating one better, more modern and civilised society, a more humane society and certainly enables people to be better if they want to. I thank you and invite you to be better if you want to and vote in favour of these laws. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47766	11 minutes and 10 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, and before concluding a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? (Yes) National MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47767	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've heard a lot of interesting things about this debate, but some things are obviously confusing even for the MPs, which surprised me. Let's say, the story of whether gambling, gambling, gambling and casinos or bookshops were completely different things and even regulated by different laws used termology for both of them as if they were the same and not the same. In one case, I have already mentioned an example of casinos or casinos, if you will, in Belgrade, the largest, which is regulated by another law, which is within the framework of the hotel Yugoslavia, which is privatised. Those who got the license to get that casino i.e. The casinos offered 18m euros in bids to get a license. According to my information, that money has never been paid in those five years, that license expired. The new bidding, according to my information, has not been held. These are the problems we need to discuss here, not whether 100 meters or 150 meters is a bookie, not a casino from a school. So, what now about what's going on inside the hotel Yugoslavia?- I'm sorry. Will anyone ever answer that question? Why doesn't the hotel Yugoslavia work as a hotel Yugoslavia? So he wasn't touched from the moment he was privatized, even resold by those who first bought, allegedly, some Slovenian-Austrian consortium, they sold to new Greek owners, and that the hotel still works as a hotel, but only works as a casino and nothing else. As a hotel in Belgrade, which is needed for the accommodation of tourists with an increased number of tourist arrivals in Belgrade and which does not have sufficient quality accommodation capacity, one such good hotel, the only one on the river in Belgrade, does not work as a hotel! And we here, here, listen to MPs, especially the ruling majority, care about citizens, and, say, this problem, which has been going on for years, don't solve as long as they are government, both at the city level and at the republican level. On the other hand, gambling and betting in every country in the world is organised by the state, not organised by organised crime. As we've seen, gambling and casinos are always held by someone who gets permission from the state. Then how can it be connected to criminals, as is said here? And taxes, taxes, etc., unless the state organises it. But that's the organized crime we're talking about. Games of chance – has anyone ever responded to the National Lottery of Serbia for this scandal that we have had and the damage that has been done to the citizens of Serbia?- I'm sorry. It's not anybody, just because Serbia's National Lottery and its director bought completely insecure, unprotected, unverified software to protect their system, which are ordinary, six-rate, Serbian hackers broke through and made a robbery of Serbian citizens. And no one answered for it! And in the meantime, we have companies or at least one company, which I know for sure, and the present minister knows, for IP technology, that it is appreciated in the world and that, for example, it could not get a job from the National Lottery of Serbia and protect the citizens of Serbia by making it a real software protection. That's the problem. Some colleagues have already told me, and this is more like a racketeering of official, legalised bookmaking companies, and there are only three or four of them in Serbia, who are present in all our cities, to now reduce their number of, say, sales, places that they have, to move again to other places, to charge some other taxes again, to change locals and to cost those people who, otherwise, regularly pay taxes to the state of Serbia for what they do, completely legal. So, all of this seems to me to be exactly one action to fill one piece of an empty republican register or one piece of an empty city, without incentives for entrepreneurship in Serbia, which is all that matters. We have to encourage entrepreneurs, we've stopped doing it, since World War II, in all areas, and even in these areas, we're not encouraging them, we're just demoting them to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47768	The word has Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47769	Thank you. Dear Mr. Shormaz, I thank you for your contribution to the discussion of these two amendments and the addition of the bill. The duty of both you and the honourable MPs and the public to inform me that the legal face of the Grand Casino paid me back in December 2005, something, over, over, 1.4 billion dinars or values, according to that course, about 18m euros, so that this claim that they never paid the licence does not exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47770	The People's MP Dragan Shormaz has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47771	I didn't claim to be or aren't, but I said I got that information because there was even one court dispute. I didn't say that because of those five minutes of short time and those who complained about the procedure got otherwise in a court dispute, if you didn't get to know it, but if they did, however, excellently – if they paid. You just haven't answered the other part of the question again, and that's -- why isn't it a hotel, why isn't it investing in a hotel, why hasn't a hotel already been made of those who bought a hotel and not a casino? The second is, well, they paid, they worked like casinos. Is the license expired or not, when will the new bid expire? That's what I asked myself, and none of those questions are answered. If they have paid – excellent! But did the license expire, when the bidding for the new and why isn't the hotel running, but just the casino? Since we see that there's a lot of concern with the government, and anyway, a lot of concern, how people go to bookshops and casinos, then, at least, let them work according to the law. And I'm more interested in why it's not "Yugoslavia" hotel, but how does Grand Casino work?- I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47772	The word has Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47773	Thank you. I'll share with you my knowledge of the hotel "Yugoslavija". It is one of the most important hotels, not only in Belgrade, but in Serbia, with an exceptional location and position. He was privatised a few years ago, about, one, two years ago, resold by new owners, now property of the "Yugoslavija" hotel is in the hands of a Greek investment group. They applied to the city authorities, i.e. the Department of Urbanism, for hotel reconstruction, modernisation, building up a tower, which should have 30 floors and in the procedure are obtaining permits for a project that should turn the hotel "Yugoslavija" into a modern one, I would say, even, perhaps a leading hotel in Belgrade. I believe that the procedures will be completed very quickly, that construction works will begin, that I have information that this should be from spring and that in this place we will really have one representative hotel, not only for Belgrade, but also for much wider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47774	The word has been passed by MP Aleksandra Jankovic, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47775	If I'd come in this afternoon and only saw you, Mr. Milosavlevich, I'd have some doubts. However, since I saw Minister Djelic this morning, whom many of them call "God's Integrated", because wherever he appears, it is about European integration. When I saw him, I realized that they were changing and supplementing the law on gambling can't help but have nothing to do with this European path. It is clear that after the legalization of homosexualism, there is a legalization of the cube, gambling as an economic branch in expansion, and then we will be inescapable and prostitution, as cynics say political prostitution is the most profitable activity in Serbia. So no more smoking in the EU, exposure to tobacco smoke, but there are cubes, prostitution, drugs, anti-natural fornication. Since, with the point of gambling, this point of tobacco has been hanged, it is likely that the reason for this unification of the assembly discussion is the motive to move on to the state administration as soon as possible, the Shunatov's working obligations and the ino-agreements, and tobacco can be chewed beautifully with gambling. What difference does it make to what a value system and youth look like, what does it have to do with the fact that the youngest registered gambling addict is only 13 years old, when the aim of this law is, according to the government, that this area is regulated, of course, because of the EU, and that they provide more income than compensation for their privatisation. Our mother whines when the budget is over vice! To this extent, the paper of this bill is a ban on the entry of minors into facilities where special gambling is held, with the minimum distance of gambling facilities from schools from the current 150 meters to 200 meters. Even 200, as one of our citizens said in a comment on "net," it's like kids are too much of a problem for scooters to cross another 50 meters. Furthermore, special gambling will be prohibited (read: cubes and bettings) longer than 18 hours a day and the origin of the capital entering the market will have to be determined. The question is, will the origin of capital be established by both domestic tycoons and which, and did Tadic mean that? Double the minimum amount of fines for violations for legal persons, from ten thousand to 100,000. But for free, and ten times the penalty, when those who pay have a hundred times the income, and they make a thousand times more people unhappy. In a public call for permission, the government will indicate the territory where the toys will be located. The Head of the Board of Games says – the reason for this supplement is to allow the playrooms to be opened in less developed regions, which will allow the creation of new jobs and the development of accompanying service activities. So, "A balanced regional development of Serbia through spatial planning of betting and gambling sites". Top! That is likely to include the biggest work ventures of regional leader Dinkic, except for the Fijat programme, a betting programme. After all, the flying promoter of these disciplines was Dinkic's staff Kristo, so "Baron Mladjan Minhauzen and Count Mojta Kristo". Here are just a few comments from our citizens on the amendments and additions to the law on gambling. Late, actually, too late. Who's allowed a bunch of lap dances on every corner and I'm just curious who's going to control it now? By the school of "King Peter I" in Marshal Birjuz's Street there's a little one, let's call it a kiosk, actually, a counter. That's where cigarettes were sold in one piece this year. By the way, it's closed during class, and it only opens during vacation. How could no one have noticed that? What was always going on at the Public Service at the World Cup? Where are you going to watch the World Cup? In our bookies, of course. What do you say when it's advertised on RTS? On the one hand, the state, like, makes it impossible for minors to get into bookies, and on the other, it keeps calling them. On the official site of the Indji municipality, on the home side is a betting banner, and on the other hand it's for "Lav" beer. I suppose they were sponsors of a large LCD display in the centre of Indjia, where, with cheap alcohol and roasted burgers, they enjoyed the World Cup in football. What about drug dealers who bring it directly to the school yard? Where are we gonna put them? Yesterday at lunchtime, I passed a couple of bookies. So, what did I see? Middle-aged men who, with beer and a ticket, sit in a bookie and watch those unfortunate numbers. Hey, guys, it's Sunday, Sunday lunch, family!- I'm sorry. What am I reading or hearing every day that some form of violence has been committed? Because parents are in the bookies, not raising kids. Ever since they got out of the bookies, they're nervous. The reason for the addition of this law is to allow the playrooms to be opened in less developed regions, which means, says this citizen of ours, to bring the poor into the cube and take away what little they have. Let's see that thing too. At our place, in Smederev, most of the bookies are with the school itself. A real action, considered by one of our citizens, would be limiting the work of slot clubs to 2300 hours and, of course, the number is the same. This way there's more than a pharmacy and a bakery together. A severe punishment for entering a minor, in terms of a multimillion fine, because that's where millions are spinning, not dinar hundreds. She's banned, they say, and she sells alcohol to minors, so every day we read about drunk kids killing each other. There's a ban on selling tobacco to minors, so every day we watch kids buy cigarettes on traffickers. The laws need to be implemented, and this imitation of the state is disastrously undermining. I'm not saying, our citizen says. Next, we've been in the village since they opened the bookies, and the kids are getting the most together there. To see how the odds count. When I go to pay for a ticket, it can't be made to the children's counter. In all European countries, the ban on minors applies to cafes and walking after 2200 hours and needs to be resolved. We're blacked out if our strategy for opening new jobs is to increase the number of casinos and casinos in underdeveloped environments?- I'm sorry. You're supposed to be opening factories, not playgrounds. We've played enough, come on, now, a little bit to do. Well, then, Uncle-Uncle, are you going there? Can you play me from "Dog in Two" and this from two to two? And, if you can, take one of Marlboro's soft ones, it's on your way anyway. I'm in a hurry to school, so I'm not late, and I just have something to follow while the professors get bored. Every day I walk past a bookie and always see responsible fathers inside with underage sons. I don't know if this law will provide punishment for such parents. And, finally, since we know that even the old law in the field of gambling has not been applied, I'm just wondering, why are you bringing a new one? To make it look like someone's doing something and getting their eyes dirty to those who aren't close to this action, so they don't know what it's really about. Any inspection, financial, sanitary, tourist, construction, to send to any betting facility, will find a bunch of irregularities, from children who gamble, unreported workers, unfulfilled conditions to open the facility, to undeclared traffic. I think there are more bookies in Serbia than official employees in this activity, and I think if inspections did their job as well as needed to make the state budget significantly more full. The essence of these comments is the correct question of citizens who are smarter than politicians by their difolt – what will change the law when the existing law does not apply, crime and corruption flourish, and standards do not exist?- I'm sorry. Serbia loses 79.5m euros annually because of an illegal cube, while the black gambling market earns almost half a billion euros. The whole country is flooded with illegal bookies, poker casinos, Texas Holding tournaments, garages and sheds where illegal game machines are made and software is copied into use. These are data from the Jakta Association, which brings together gambling directors, authorised repairers and manufacturers of appliances and equipment, to be presented at a meeting with representatives of government administrations and agencies at the Union's headquarters of Serbia's employers. Research has been done by the Jakte expert team, in collaboration with the Gambling Complience Company, the European Federation Euromat, experts from the Serbian Chamber of Commerce and gambling experts. The power of gambling in Serbia is almost not regulated at all, as the law is not applied, and standards on existing ones are considered by President Mirjana Acimovic. Illegal casinos are all over Serbia, whether villages or cities. There are critical places around the market, shopping centres, and in Belgrade especially about colleges and schools. According to the "Jakta" data, the largest illegal part of the country's gambling game is bookies with two or three gambling machines, manufacturing illegal appliances and copying software. This, of course, occurred by failing to enforce the law, by failing to exercise control, by the inability of competent institutions to control the black market. There's a lot of evidence for people holding chains of dozens of illegal slot clubs, casinos and bookies with unreported machines, but nobody's doing anything. Our country loses, as I said, 80m euros a year in the name of taxis and taxes. The Director of the Games Administration, Zoran Jadzic, said at a meeting that he has only six employees and one official vehicle, so it is impossible to move into large-scale controls across Serbia. The penalties for holding illegal appliances were only 2,000, and now, and when they increase, ten times, if the number of people who can participate in these actions is not increased, we've painted 'free'. Mirjana Acimovic further states that only 26% of the gambling market is legalised and that everyone else works in the gray zone. When a new gambling law was passed, the 2005 management data showed that there were 186 editors at the time and should have re-applyed. Now they've been founded with companies in the last three years, only 105. The question arises – where did those hundreds of unreported editors go? Otherwise, the grey economy is the largest in the textile industry, followed immediately by gambling. The Union's data from employers further say Serbia has become a salary for gambling machine waste, as more than 30,000 illegal appliances are being directed from Russia, which were named there as a scissors. A similar case, they say, was when trying to standardise appliances in Poland and the Czech Republic. So we're no longer just a pay for waste of various unhealthy materials, but also a gambling machine. They get along well with the poored uranium?- I'm sorry. The next problem is that by breaking the lottery law, in fact, the budget was being filled. Namely, Serbia's state lottery has been in violation of the law on gambling for almost a year, as it is explicitly stated under Article 29 of the law that Serbia's State Lottery can, for all games, hold a total of two times a week to organise profit extraction in direct television transmission. Last year, however, the lottery, the advert said, by its reputation for the European lottery began twice a week to organise the extraction of the numbers ''loto' and kept 'bingo'. This means that gambling was on TV three times a week, not how the law ordered it twice. In an off-the-book interview with the Serbian State lottery, it was explained that no one took the money for themselves, a lot of it goes for humanitarian purposes, so you see the situation – life has passed the law. So life can't wait, life has passed the law, and the law has to be held "as a drunk float," as the most powerful ideologist of the current government said. And "the road to hell is paved by good intentions"! It is fortunate that it is not decided that the Constitution or parliament should choose SMS by voting, and the mayor is waiting for a new bridge by scratching the protective foil on the ballot! Otherwise, during the SMS bidding, the draw was daily, next to the lott twice a week. It is a hypocritical closing of casinos by schools when television in every home and in every school intensively creates an addiction of players to gambling and gambling. There was no fraud, there was a violation of the law, and even though that failure wasn't a big one, the last one who shouldn't break the law is the one who wrote it. The initiative to ban minors from entering gambling facilities, located less than 150m from schools, was launched by authorities in Belgrade a year ago. 17 buildings have been closed, three of them have been closed by the owners themselves, which was announced on the Round Table "Little Faces, Games of Happiness". In Serbia, otherwise, there are between two and a half thousand bookies, and twice as many schools. The survey again showed that about 11% of young people visiting bookies became addicted to gambling. To make things worse, children from the poorest families gamble the most, and fellow psychologists claim that one of the urges that drive children to spend time in gambling rooms is to gain material resources, boredom and life without meaning. Sadly, this has also contributed to the fact that parents are less concerned with children because of solving existential problems, and school does not direct them in an adequate way in the right way. The consequences of gambling and gambling addiction are most often: poor school success, school leaving school, family conflicts, the phenomenon of anger and aggression when they lose and when they are able to spend the last couple in gambling games. Belgrade Mayor Dragan Gilas said, quite rightly, that the biggest problem is not the distance between the bookies and the school, but the availability of playgrounds to minors. From day one, our idea was to come to a solution together with companies that are legally involved in this business. The most important thing is that everyone respects the agreed, which is that underage persons do not have the opportunity to appear in bookshops and playrooms, Gilas said. Indeed, there is no negotiation in this respect. The minors have nothing to look for in the objects that produce, as euphemismically put it, special gambling. It's nothing special, gambling and betting are gambling and betting, and it's only their devastating influence on people, especially young, poor, sick and vulnerable. In transition countries, gambling has become a new type of disease of addiction, as well as drug abuse, alcoholism, but is often more difficult to diagnose. According to the expert's assessment, it is wrong to think that sports typing is only a distraction, as a large number of bookmakers are eventually fully committed to betting, order all their activities to it, neglecting work and family. That's why betting is called a lonely party. Even if it could be proven that bookies deliberately drag their clients into some kind of debt slavery, the question remains of who to punish and what crime, because gambling is decriminalized, and from a wide range of gambling games, practically, it's just forbidden to match as an obvious fraud. The very desire to return lost money is a hook that fishes all the money out of his pocket, and hopes that by gambling he will return long is a safe way to the abyss. It's the same probability that it happens and that the gambler travels that moment's Space Shaft into space. Three and a half million people in Serbia play one of the gambling games, each fifth is a pathological gambler, which means 700,000 citizens live in Serbia at risk of pathological gambling. I have already said that the youngest gambler in Serbia, whom parents have brought to the SOS Help Centre for Pathological Gamblers, is only 13 years old. Spoiled families, suicides, robbery and theft, which gambling addicts make, are just some of the consequences of gambling. So, the crisis in society, particularly economically, contributes to a greater number of people trying to try happiness and solve the invisible material position through gambling. The situation with us is even more specific, because we have witnessed that during the 1990s many in suspicious ways have become rich overnight, and with many, hope that everyone can at some point become rich. When a person has a passive bet and a gamble and his passion can't be controlled, that's when there's a pathological problem. The cube is not just a nuanced fight against stress and a controlled risk of elevating adrenaline, as some like to say. It's actually about a serious entertainment industry that eats its children. And "Loto" is gambling, because not only play individual combinations, but the lottery also offers systems that cost tens of thousands of euros. France singles out 1,900 euros per capita, as a prevention of gambling, even goes to the education of ticket sellers, to identify pathological gamblers. The damage from gambling is three times greater than the benefit, which is, for example, why they put a lock on the casino in Russia, with the crime rate growing to ten times. Unfortunately, there was also a TV promotion of addiction diseases, which was referred to by deputy head of the Nova Srbija Group, Miroslav Markicevic, who had never received an apology, as he claimed that the "minimum single offer" on RTS was public stimulation of the cube. It is important that in the previous five years the revenues from gambling have been decimated, so in the Serbia State lottery, regardless of how much revenue they pay in the budget, it is self-financed by actions, which affect improving the quality of life of Serbian citizens. Is it really possible that it is the state lottery of Serbia that should improve the quality of life in Serbia?- I'm sorry. It's a system, like a cigarette factory would cure cancer. However, with this government nothing is impossible, and I can almost bet that not only this one will pass, but all the laws that allow ministers to survive in power, well, at the expense of their own people.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47776	The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47777	Ladies and gentlemen, we have two laws ahead of us, which are relatively long in the assembly procedure; the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Happiness has been in place since June, and this second one, the Law on Tobacco has been since August of the month. The question arises, now I ask myself and the public, which are the reasons why these two laws appear at this session, when, as a rule, this time, before the end of the year, is reserved for the budget, is reserved for tax regulations, which are normally adopted together with the budget. In the light of these laws, we have received several interpretations which, according to the promoter, are the Ministry of Finance, the reasons for the adoption of these laws. He says: ''in the need to create conditions for the implementation of the adopted recommendations of the unit for a comprehensive reform of regulations (srp) by the government. ''This is one of the reasons why this law is adopted, that is to say, ''the reasons for amending the law are contained in the need to adapt certain provisions of the Law to the changed circumstances on the market, as well as to achieve more effective conduct of matters within the jurisdiction of the state administration. ''When a little analysis is made of this reason, then we see, neither there are elements here that adapt circumstances on the market, nor are there any specific competences of the state administration, nor is there a need to change any jurisdiction of the state institution dealing with this problem, which is the tobacco management, which is the surplus in the legal system. In fact, the SRS requested that the institution be deleted when adopting this law, because it is a clean institution that performs certain tasks, which could have been carried out by the Ministry of Finance or by another state body along with this. Since you have proposed two other powers to the state administration to the bill, it will most likely be a reason to hire another ten, fifteen new workers, as you say in the bill itself – the administration will participate in the preparation of the draft amendments and addition of this law and opinions on the application of this law. This is one of the new responsibilities, and the other is – they are involved in the preparation of sublegal acts to implement the provisions of this law under the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance Affairs. Look, all these jobs that you've listed here, and making sublaws and making bill, that's what one lawyer in some ministry does. It is unnecessary to extend the jurisdiction of an institution which is unnecessary in the legal system. But what's important here is to point out that these are cosmetic changes. These are the changes you say are reformal. That's what you said in this explanation of the reason for this law, and on the other hand, in practice you said it was a guillotine regulation. We don't see the guillotine here. Is this how the laws change? This law will now change in a technical and legal sense. What about the other regulations? How many years does it take to bring this legal system into line, to unify legal regulations, to create an orderly legal system?- I'm sorry. It'll take us dozens, maybe hundreds of years, at this rate as you do. There's no guillotine regulations, there's no designed strategy system to change the legal system. But what matters in this area is practice. What is your practice in the application of this law and in the work, production, processing, transport, distribution and import of the tobacco industry? She's tragic! Next situation. Minister, you were in two very prominent places during the period when structural changes were made in this area. They're catastrophic! Billiste is president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce and Minister of Agriculture. What was done in this area?- I'm sorry. Privatisation of industrial plants, which dealt with tobacco processing, has been carried out for some 600m euros and some million euros. About 20,000 economic households participated in tobacco production. The amount of tobacco produced was, like, 70% tobacco, and 30% imported. What is the situation now after your reform, after privatisation? Today we have production, about 40%, between 30% and 40%, importing everything else. We used to have a payment deficit in foreign trade, because we both exported and imported. Now we have a deficit, and we have a marked deficit, because last year we imported about 110 million dollars of tobacco processing, tobacco processing, and we achieved, like, 50 million dollars of deficits. This year will be even more drastic! What happened to privatized companies? They acquired a monopoly on our market. No one could enter that market, not even in terms of production, because they dictated conditions, they broke up contracts with agriculture. The village rebelled, the peasants rebelled. When you were president of the Chamber of Commerce, you had thousands of demands from agriculture, cooperatives, legal entities that were involved in this production -- they were driven out of the market. A village that traditionally produced tobacco for years, which had excellent production mechanisms, which had tradition, a culture in tobacco farming, that village was driven to other markets, into other products, just because monopolies came. As a state, you sold the tobacco market. Where we had the surplus, now we have the deficit. Where we had the successful production of agriculture in that area, we today have peasants who, unable to deal with this production, have entered another production, are tortured, are suffering and so on. This area that brings to the state every year on various grounds, somewhere, around, a billion dollars, is now being put into a position to depend on these industries and depend on their taxes, excise taxes, taxis and everything that this industry pays. Instead of sovereignly ruling this work, we left it to the verse, we left it to the market, we sold it, we sold it for all time, and we lost the primate we had in the region and this part of Europe. We left this market, which is the most devastating, foreign factor, and the foreign factor is Croatia. The tobacco industry of Croatia is ruling in this area. They dictate all conditions. They set such conditions as they do. What's going on with the import? The tobacco industry that's working right now, it's four major industrial plants, they only import because they have cheaper tobacco on foreign markets. Why is he cheaper? Because the state escaped from this area. There are no more of these subsidies that she had in 2002, 2003, 2005, 2006. Since 2005, the state has been fleeing this area. Who's the heat? Terraju is monopolies! They just don't allow it. By their order, the government had to come out of this! That's what the detachment indicators show in this area. What conditions does our peasant do to our countryman? A farmer in the region gets for the same production volume at least three to four times, and a Western European producer up to ten times, more subsidies than our farmer gets. Can our peasant, in these conditions, create the kind of product that a peasant in the West or legal or physical person in the West creates? He can't, he can't compete! That's why we created these conditions in which our industry operates. Here's just a few information on financial indicators, they're very important and relevant. Our public needs to know that the 2010 budget revenues planned to achieve some 325 billion dinar revenues, of which 134 billion dinars are planned on the basis of turnover in Serbia and 187 billion dinars based on imports. What was done after the budget rebalance, i.e. what are fiscal indicators in budget rebalancing? Total VAT revenues have been reduced by 4 billion, but it is disproportionate in what, Mr. Milosavljevic, you must be worried about, you are a trade minister, you have monopolized the market. This indicator best speaks of the catastrophic position of the manufacturer. Based on the VAT, according to the budget rebalance adopted today, the revenues will be 112 billion. That's a total of 22 billion less than planned. What's going on on the domestic market? No home products. The foreign product enters the home product. You're not worried about 22 billion. This is a classic example of the position of our industry, the position of our agriculture, the position of trade as a whole. Let's see what happens to excises, 'cause I'm talking about the tobacco bill. The plan was 131 billion dinars, according to the rebalancing 133 billion, based on the tobacco excise plan was 54 billion, and according to what the rebalancing was adopted – 57 billion to the end. As far as excise duty is concerned, everything's fine. You'll have some $3 billion increase by the end of the year for this. So, importers, who have kicked out domestic peasants, have a cheap product, will put it on the market, will process, will sell on the domestic market, and most will go on export. This shows us data from the 2010 budget and budget rebalances. Based on VAT – 22 billion. As Minister of Trade, you, you must take this fact very seriously. This fact is catastrophic by domestic production. It is interesting to mention the European Commission report on transport, on the market and on the position of domestic production. The name itself says – Serbia's 2010 Progress Report. It's the European Commission's report. Any progress?- I'm sorry. Here's what the European Commission says. As far as production is concerned – slight progress in production, as well as slight progress in the fight against monopoly. There's no fight against monopolies, because it's not allowed by those to whom you sold the market. There's no progress in production! It's a disaster in this area! Once this industry was privatized, when it was in the right hands, it was making progress, now it's gone. These are data you know very well, with the foundation of the Department of Commerce. Is there a fight against the monopoly? There isn't. Neither in this area nor in banking nor in cement production, etc., because cementists also monopolized the market – and there is no entry of others while we are here, there is no entry of others! The particular area I want to talk about is the tobacco mob. And you know what Stanko Subotić said about, we can treat him like this, he's a tobacco mob car. He made it clear that he financed political parties. What did the government do to find out who he financed, when he financed and which of the political parties participated in these financial transactions with Stanko Subotic?- I'm sorry. Is there an APB? What did the financial police do there?- I'm sorry. What did the IRS do?- I'm sorry. What did the IRS do?- I'm sorry. Why is the government running away from it?- I'm sorry. What about the actions in other proceedings before the competent courts? What's that all about? More than half of those people are at large and defending themselves from freedom. That's millions of dollars. Some European representatives, if they believe them, probably know, because they have participated in all of this, have followed, these are the services that monitor it all, say that it is about annually washed only on our market, around, billions of euros, in terms of both taxes and excise taxes, etc. Where are those funds? On the black market! What about the black market? Is that thing in this area now or isn't it working? Is that closed? Do we have a cigarette smuggling? Do we have a tobacco smuggling? The government has to answer that. What's the mission of the state? No monopoly, and at least the country's monopoly is illegal under modern conditions. Under the provisions of international law, every normal state, every modern state fights the monopoly. You've monopolized. You were directly involved when you signed contracts with tobacco industry buyers, you made that monopoly possible. What did you do next? You cut the subsidies to tobacco producers. That's why you cut the village. That's how you banged the manufacturer and this piece of work. We're doomed to import. We're doomed to import that tobacco that matches the manufacturers. What's the quality of that tobacco? Did your inspection, the state's inspections and the control institutes make any sense of it, and do they have any insight? Do these monopolies in the tobacco industry market allow you to go in there and exercise control? We are poisoning a Serb being, just because you have no interference, no control and no good intentions towards a "Serbian peasant and Serb who uses tobacco and tobacco products"! I'd like something about this other law. As far as the law on gambling is concerned, it is also a matter of cosmetic change. No good intentions. But it is interesting to explain why this law is passed, you say – this action is in great expansion. Any state that has the expansion of this activity is unconscious. Well, are you boasting that these actions are in great expansion? The question is, what are the benefits of this action? You said it was about ten times since 2005 to today for so much increased income. Is that expansion, only in fiscal terms? We've received data today that about 10,000 machines, of the 17 thousand existing ones that are on the market, are unregistered, are on the black market. What did the state do to legalize these appliances, to charge revenues based on gambling and to get it all into the budget? Nothing. You're aware of that fact. But there's a monopolized market. And that's where you can tell who can't, but who can't. And that's where you know who's going to bring out the black market and who's going to benefit financially from that black market. Well, two-thirds of your apparatus is on the black market. And it is not a small financial and fiscal effect – 256 million you said that the annual income is based on the organisation of gambling. Let's increase that by two-thirds, then we see that it's actually half a budget deficit. Well, come on, get organized, hire these jobs. What is important is to point out in the allocation of funds that you will share with this law, is defined by Article 2 - "Part of the funds that are the income of the Republic of Serbia's 40% budget, dedicated budget receipts, will be used to finance the Red Cross of Serbia, organisations of persons with disabilities and other associations whose aim is to improve the social and social position of persons with disabilities and other persons in a state of social need, social protection institutions, sports and local self-government. 'Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-30-0.u47778	Time. Do any of the other authorised representatives, group presidents, or anyone who has not used his right under article 96 come forward? (No) I am concluding a joint principled search on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on tobacco and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Games. For today, we finish our work and continue tomorrow, Wednesday, December 1st at 10:00 p.m. Thank you.
