ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-23-0.u37549	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 163 MPs. I remind you, Article 86 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and establishment of the agenda exists if at least 126 MPs are present at the session. To determine the number of MPs in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. The application of the electronic voting system has shown that 126 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 86(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you of the absence of MP Radojko Obradovic, who was prevented from attending the session. Since the National Assembly has completed a search on all points of the agenda, we move on to a decision. (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. He can't today. (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: By Article 235, it can be done every Tuesday. That's what you got. He can't. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE CARIN LAW (Dragan Todorovic from the place insists on giving him a word. ) Please, in the voting day, there are no questions asked, nor can the Rules of Procedure be advertised. (With protests, SRS MPs are leaving the O.R. ( ) Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move on to a decision. I'm putting the draft customs law to the vote, in principle. Of the 138 MPs, 126 were declared. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Let me just inform you that MP Gordan Rajkov has writtenly withdrawn Amendments 1 and 2 to Article 216. On the basis of Article 148(2), Rules of Procedure, the Legislative Committee rejected as an untimely amendment group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group to Articles 5, 16, 35, 193 and by the agreement of the 3rd member, rejected amendments cannot be discussed and not voted on. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. On Article 1, as I said, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Of 135 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of 135 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd Amendment was submitted by the MP, Ms Radet. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Of the 127 MPs, 117 voted in favour of the amendment. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Alexander Martinovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for this amendment. The assembly did not accept the amendment. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted for this amendment. The assembly did not accept the amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Of the 126 MPs, 108 voted in favour of the amendment. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 5th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Momcilo Duvnjak. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Momcilo Duvnjak. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Ilic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. The title above Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 8th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. Of the 131 MPs, four are in favour. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. Of the 135 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Of the 139 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Of 140 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Of the 141 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Of the 139 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted the 28th amendment together. Of the 138 MPs, four are in favour. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Of the 138 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. The 30th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vladan Jeremic. Of the 139 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure, which were submitted to Article 35 of the amendment by the Committee on Development and Economic Affairs with abroad. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 139 MPs, 116 MPs voted for this amendment. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 35th Amendment was submitted by Gordana Pop-Lazic. Of the 139 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 37th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of the 139 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Ambassador Milan Skrbic submitted to the 53rd amendment. Of the 139 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 57th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of the 139 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 58th Amendment was submitted by a member of the Members of the People of Radet. Of the 139 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 59th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. Of the 139 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 59th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Of the 139 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 85th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Of 139 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic to Article 87. Of 139 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 94th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Of 139 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 101st Amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Of 139 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 107th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of 139 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 110th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Of 139 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to Article 121 of the amendment. Of the 138 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 126, the amendment was submitted by Srboljub Zivanovic. Of the 138 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 128th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of the 138 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 137th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Of the 138 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 138th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of the 138 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 144th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 146, the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 148th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 158th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 168 of the amendment, Srboljub Zivanovic submitted. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 169 of the amendment, Srboljub Zivanovic submitted. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 173rd amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Of 130 MPs, two for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 175th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Alexander Martinovic submitted the amendment to Article 188. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 188th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 201st Amendment was submitted by MP Pai Momchilov. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 208th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 216th amendment, with the correction of 19 March 2010, was submitted by MP Gordan Rajkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote, with a correction. Of the 127 MPs, 115 MPs voted for the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure, on Article 216 of the amendment, were submitted by the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of the 127 MPs, 111 MPs voted in favour. The National Assembly accepted this amendment. Member of the 219th amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 225th amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 227th Amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 236th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 255th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 260th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic to Article 268. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 287th amendment was submitted by Gordana Pop-Lazic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 288th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted to Article 289 by Vitomir Plužarevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted to Article 292 of the amendment by the MEP, Ms Radet. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted to Article 293 of the amendment by the MEP, Ms Radet. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 204th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting a vote on the Customs Code proposal in general. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted in favour of the proposal. The National Assembly passed a proposal for customs law. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and DEFINITIONS OF THE INVESTIGATION LAW After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in detail, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the company profit tax law, in principle. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted for this proposal. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Before moving to a decision, I remind you that MP Susana Grubjesic, in writing, withdrew the amendment to Article 10 and that the Legislative Committee, on the basis of Article 148(2). The Rules of Procedure rejected, as an unfounded, amendments by MP Vladan Batic to Articles 10 and 21, and the rejected amendment cannot be discussed and it cannot be voted on. We're moving on to a decision. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted the 9th amendment together. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted the 10th amendment together. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The Committee on Finance has submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 22nd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Mladen Grujic and together Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted the 24th amendment together. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 29th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vladan Jeremic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 32nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted the 39th amendment together. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted together to the 40th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted together to the 41st amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted the amendment to Article 73. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted together to the 75th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. My colleagues inform me I haven't read a single amendment properly. Please. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Finance, submitted an amendment to Article 10. Of the 127 MPs, 121 MPs voted for the amendment, and I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted together to the 76th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. I remind you he's a member of 76. The bill envisions that this law enters into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. In the light of the draft law, the Government stated that the particularly justified reasons for the early entry into force of this law, within the meaning of Article 196(4). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, consisted in the need to ensure the application of the provisions of this law as soon as possible in order to enable taxpayers to tax their profits for 2010 in the manner prescribed by this law. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Of the 127 MPs, 126 were declared. The National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Company Profit Tax Act as a whole. Of the 127 MPs, 124 were declared. The National Assembly adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Company Tax Act. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of Taxes on the Income of Citizens Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in the principle of individuality, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax, in principle. Of the 127th MPs, 124 voted in favour of the bill. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the draft law in principle and before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that it is the Legislative Committee, on the basis of Article 148(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly rejected as untimely amendments to Articles 5 and 7 submitted by MP Vladan Batic, and as incomplete, the amendment that added a new article 1a, which was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. In accordance with Article 148(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly rejected amendments cannot be discussed and are not voted on. An integral part of the bill's proposal has become amendments to the National MP Branko Ljiljak, adding a new Article 1a after Article 1a and adding a new Article 18a after Article 18a. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric together submitted an amendment to Article 1. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric together submitted an amendment, which was added after Article 1b. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Grujic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Mladen Grujic submitted an amendment adding a new Article 5a after Article 5. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted the 9th amendment together. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted the 17th amendment together. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted the 20th amendment together. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. I remind you it's in article 20. The draft law provides that the provisions of Articles 2, 3, 10, 11, 12, 14, 18 and 19 have a feedback. According to Article 146(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, when the bill contains provisions for which a return fact is provided, when voting on those provisions, the National Assembly will specifically decide whether there is a general interest in this fact. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether there is a general interest in the feedback of Articles 2, 3, 10, 11, 12, 14, 18 and 19 contained in Article 20. It's a bill of law. Since 127 MPs voted 123. In particular, the National Assembly has decided that there is a general interest in the feedback of Articles 2, 3, 10, 11, 12, 14, 18 and 19 contained in Article 20. It's a bill of law. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. I remind you he's a member of the 21st. The bill envisions that this law enters into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. In the light of the draft law, the Government stated that the particularly justified reasons for the early entry into force of this law, within the meaning of Article 196(4) of the Treaty, The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia consisted in reasons of fiscal nature to ensure that the provisions of the laws relating to the reduction of the tax rate in taxation of capital, capital gains and income from the insurance of the person, as well as the determination of the level of tax base in the taxation of those types of income of natural persons, capital income, capital gains, income from the insurance of the person. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Of the 127 MPs, 127 voted in favour of the proposal. The National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within a shorter period than the eighth day of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Tax Income of Citizens, in general. Of the 127 MPs, it voted 125. The National Assembly adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax. We move to item 4: – Proposal for a Law on the Borrowing of the Republic of Serbia to the ERSTE GCIB OF FINANCIAL I.B.V. AMSTERDAM, WITH ERSTE BANK A.D. NEW NOW AS AGENT, MARFIN BANK A.D. BELGRADE AND VOJVODIAN BANK A.D. NEW USA Since the National Assembly carried out a principle search, before the transition to decision-making, I remind you that on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3 of Article 4) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly decides on the laws governing public borrowing, most of the votes of all MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia to Ersta GCIB Finance I.B.V. Amsterdam, with Erste Bank a.d. Novi Sad as an agent, Marfin Bank a.d. Belgrade and Vojvodjanska Banka a.d. Novi Sad Of 127 MPs, all 127 voted in favour. Most of the votes of all MPs were accepted by the National Assembly by the draft law in principle. I remind you he's a 6. The bill envisions that this law enters into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the date of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. In light of the bill's proposal, the government stated that the reasons for the entry into force of this law before the eighth day of publication stemmed from the fact that for the purpose of financing the budget deficit and refinancing it is necessary to conclude credit agreements with the commercial banks. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted in favour of the proposal. With the majority of votes of all MPs, the National Assembly has found that there are particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia to Ersta GCIB Finance I.B.V. Amsterdam, with Erste Bank a.d. Novi Sad as an agent, Marfin Bank a.d. Belgrade and Vojvodjanska Banka a.d. Novi Sad, in general. Of the 127 MPs, all 127 voted yes. The National Assembly passed a bill on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia to Ersta GCIB Finance I.B.V. by majority of the votes of all MPs. Amsterdam, with Erste Bank a.d. Novi Sad as an agent, Marfin Bank a.d. Belgrade and Vojvodjanska Banka a.d. Novi Sad. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW OF DURING THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIAGAS TO USE "BANCE INTES" A.D. BELGRADE BY THE PUBLIC PUBLIC A "SRBIAGAS" NEW NOW After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I remind you that Article 105 of Article 3(4) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia provides that the National Assembly shall decide by majority of the votes of all MPs on the laws governing public borrowing. I am putting to the vote the draft law on granting the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of the Bank of Intessa. Belgrade, under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise, "Srbigas" Novi Sad, in principle. Of the 128 MPs, 127 were declared. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become the amendment of MP Aleksandr Martinovic to Article 4. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on the amendment. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendment, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law on granting the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of the Bank of Intes a.d. of Belgrade under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "Srbigas" Novi Sad, in general. Of the 128 MPs, 127 were declared. The National Assembly passed by most of the votes of all MPs a bill on granting a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia for the benefit of the Bank of Intes, a.d. Belgrade, under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "Srbigas" Novi Sad. We move to item 6: – Proposal for a Law on Preschool VESSITATION AND EDUCATION Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on preschool education and education, in principle. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 127 voted yes. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle and before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill's proposal has become an amendment of the People's MPs: Zoran Šamija and Aleksandr Pejčić to Article 5, Milice Vojić-Marković and Donke Banović to Article 8, Milice Vojić-Marković, Donke Banović and Zoran Šamija to Article 13, Dusan Marić to Article 13, Donke Banović, Zoran Šamija and Milice Vojić-Marković to Article 14, Sreta Perić to Article 38, Sladjan Mijeljevic to Article 39, Radice Jocic to Article 41 and Slobodan Vuković to Article 44, as well as an amendment of the Committee for Education to the title above Articles 4 and 4 to Article 21 and to Article 50. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Sasa Maksimovic and Jelena Budimirovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Donka Banovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Nikola Lazic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 4th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Pejcic and Nikola Lazic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by Milica Vojic-Markovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarian Goran Mihajlovic submitted to the 5th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Pejcic and Donka Banovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 9th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Alexander Pejcic and Zoran Shami. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted the 22nd amendment together. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 28th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Sasa Maksimovic and Jelena Budimirovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Zoran Shami submitted the 30th amendment together. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 32nd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Olena Papuga. Of 127 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic and Aleksandra Jankovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On behalf of Head V above the 36th Amendment, MPs Aleksandar Pejcic, Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted together. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Zoran Shami. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 37th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Pejcic and Donka Banovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 38 was submitted by MP Milan Dimitrijevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 38th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Lazic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 39th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Pejcic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic and Zoran Shami submitted together to the 39th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 43rd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Olena Papuga. Of 127 MPs, two for. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, submitted together to the 46th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 46th amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 48th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Donka Banovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 50th amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Sasa Maksimovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 50th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Donka Banovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 50th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Jelena Budimirovic. Of 127 MPs none for. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure, the Committee for Education, submitted an amendment, with a correction, to Article 52. Of the 127 MPs, 120 MPs voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on preschool education and education in general. Of the 128 MPs, 124 MPs voted in favour. The National Assembly passed a bill on preschool education and education.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-23-0.u37550	We're continuing our work. We move to the 7th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON STUDY AND STUDENT STANDARD Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting the draft law on student and student standards to the vote, in principle. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. Of the 126 MPs, 125 MPs voted in favour. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Part of the Bill's draft became amendments of the People's MPs: Verice Rade to Article 1, together with Lasla Varge, Balinta Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond to Article 6 with correction, to Article 25 and Article 41 with correction, together with Donka Banović, Milan Dimitrijevic and Milice Vojić-Marković to Article 16 with correction and to Article 80 with correction, Milorad Buhe to Article 40, Aleksandra Martinović to Article 67, Paja Momchilov to Article 95, Natasha Jovanovic to Article 95 and the Committee on Education to Members 9, 22, 42 and 50. Also, an integral part of the bill's proposal has become an amendment of the Committee on Education to Article 88 since it was adopted by the Government, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I also remind you that the MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic, by written means, withdrew the amendment to Article 70. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of the 126 MPs, three voted for. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Bajram Šehovic. Of the 126 MPs, two voted for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The assembly did not accept the amendment. The 9th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. None for, of the 126 MPs. The assembly did not accept the amendment. Milovanovic submitted to the 10th amendment. None for, of the 126 MPs. The assembly did not accept the amendment. Alexander Martinovic submitted to the 10th amendment. None for, of the 126 MPs. The assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The assembly did not accept the amendment. The 11th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Olena Papuga. Three out of 126 MPs voted for it. The assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 12th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Olena Papuga. The vote was 8 out of 126 MPs. The assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The assembly did not accept the amendment. The 13th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Olena Papuga. For the vote of four, of 126 MPs. The assembly did not accept the amendment. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. None for, of the 126 MPs. The assembly did not accept the amendment. Tomislav Ljubenović submitted to the 20th amendment. None for, of the 126 MPs. The assembly did not accept the amendment. Ambassador Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 23rd amendment. None for, of the 126 MPs. The assembly did not accept the amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Milica Vojic Markovic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Olena Papuga. Six out of 126 MPs voted in favour. The assembly did not accept the amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted by Milica Vojic-Markovic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Momcilo Duvnjak. None for, of the 126 MPs. The assembly did not accept the amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted by Milan Dimitrijevic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 30th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. None for, of the 126 MPs. The assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 38th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. None for, of the 126 MPs. The assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 39th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ognjen Mihajlovic. None for, of the 126 MPs. The assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. None for, of the 126 MPs. The assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. None for 126 MPs. The assembly did not accept the amendment. Member of the 45th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. The vote was 17 out of 126 MPs. The assembly did not accept the amendment. Members of Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond submitted to the 48th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, 117 MPs voted for this amendment. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic submitted together to the 49th amendment, with a correction. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 53rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 54th Amendment, with a correction, were together submitted by MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. Of the 126 MPs, 119 MPs voted for this amendment. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Member of the 60th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 61st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 62nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 64th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 65th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic submitted to the title and subtitle above the 70th and the 70th amendment, with a correction. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The People's MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic submitted together to the 71st amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The People's MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic submitted together to Article 72 of the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The People's MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic submitted together to the amendment of the 73rd. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A letter from Marina Toman submitted to Article 73 of the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 73rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The National MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic submitted together to the 74th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The People's MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic submitted together to the 75th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The National MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic submitted together to the 77th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 77th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic and Aleksandra Jankovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 79th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic and Aleksandra Jankovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 83rd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Suleiman Spaho. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 85th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 87th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 90th Amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 94, which was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 95, which was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. No one for, of 126 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting the amendments to article 95, which was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. No one for, of 126 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting the amendments to article 95, which was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. No one for, of 126 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting the amendments to article 95, which was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. No one for, of 126 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 96, which was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. No one for, of 126 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting the amendments to Article 97, which was tabled by MP Dušanka Plecevic. No one for, of 126 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments to article 101 to the vote, submitted by Parliamentarian Radovan Radovanovic. No one for, of 126 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 103 tabled by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. No one for, of 126 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on student and student standards in general. For 123, of 216 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has passed a bill on student and student standards. We move to the 8th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE PROPOSAL OF THE FUND AND FUND Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on game and hunt, in principle. Of the 126 MPs, 123 voted yes. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-23-0.u37551	Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. The First Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Agriculture accepted the amendment, with a correction. Of the 127 MPs, 120 voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 3 of the amendment, MP Momcilo Duvnjak submitted. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Milan Škrbic submitted to the 4th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 4th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic and MP Drago Damnjanovic. Of the 126 MPs, 15 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Agriculture, tabled an amendment to Article 4. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment. Of the 126 MPs, 121 voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragi Damnjanovic. Of the 126 MPs, 23 voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. The proposer and the Committee on Agriculture adopted this amendment, with a correction. Of the 126 MPs, 115 voted for this amendment. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Drago Damnjanovic. Of the 126 MPs, 17 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milica Vojic-Markovic submitted the 9th amendment together. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 10 and article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th Amendment was submitted by Sinisa Stamenkovic to the Government and the Committee on Agriculture adopted this amendment. I ask that we make a statement about this amendment that the government has accepted. Of the 126 MPs, 117 voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The title above Article 11 and Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Articles 12 and 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Articles 13 and 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Krstin. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The National MP Dobrislav Prelic submitted to the title above Articles 14 and 14 of the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 15th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Momcilo Duvnjak. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milica Vojic-Markovic submitted the 29th amendment together. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 29th amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 32nd Amendment was submitted by Vitomir Plužarevic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Milan M. Nikolic submitted to the 35th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 35th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 36th Amendment was submitted by Sinisha Stamenkovic. Of the 126 MPs, four voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 36th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic and MP Dragi Damnjanovic. The representative of the proposer and the Committee on Agriculture adopted this amendment. Of the 126 MPs, 110 voted in favour. The assembly has accepted this amendment. The 38th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 38th amendment was submitted by MP Drago Damnjanovic. Of the 126 MPs, 18 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 38th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Agriculture, submitted an amendment to Article 38. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment. Of the 126 MPs, 115 voted in favour. I find this amendment accepted. The 38th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. Of the 126 MPs, the vote was 6. The amendment was not accepted. The 40th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Donka Banovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 40th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Dobrislav Prelic submitted to the 44th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Agriculture, submitted an amendment to Article 45. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment. Of the 126 MPs, 116 voted in favour. I find this amendment accepted. The Committee on Agriculture has tabled an amendment to Article 46. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment. Of the 126 MPs, 118 voted in favour. I find this amendment accepted. Member of the 47th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 47th amendment was submitted by MP Drago Damnjanovic. Of the 126 MPs, 11. The amendment was not accepted. Siniša Stamenkovic submitted to Article 49 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture accepted the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, 117 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 49th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 53rd amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 54th amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Prime Minister Vlad Milojkovic submitted to the 56th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milica Vojic-Markovic submitted the amendment together. Of the 126 MPs none for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 63rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 63rd amendment was submitted by MP Drago Damnjanovic. Of the 126 MPs, 18 were voted in favour of this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Tomislav Ljubenović submitted to the 63rd amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Dusan Maric tabled an amendment proposing that Article 63a be added after article 63a. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Milovanovic submitted to the 64th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Milan Škrbic submitted to Article 67 of the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 71st Amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 73rd amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. An MP named Milan M. Nikolic submitted an amendment to Article 74. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milica Vojic-Markovic submitted to the 76th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milica Vojic-Markovic submitted to the 77th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 80th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic and MP Dragi Damnjanovic. Of 127 MPs, for five. The amendment was not accepted. The 80th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 81st Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. An MP named Milorad Krstin submitted to the 88th Amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 88th amendment was submitted by MP Drago Damnjanovic. Of the 127 MPs, four voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 89th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 90th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 91st Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Prime Minister Vlad Milojkovic submitted the amendment to Article 94. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Agriculture, submitted an amendment to Article 95. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment. Of the 126 MPs, this amendment was voted... We will have to repeat, although it was clear that a large number of MPs voted, we will have to establish the quorum again and again to declare the amendment of the Committee on Agriculture to Article 95. Let's re-establish the quorum. I would like to make it clear that the amendment of the Committee on Agriculture to Article 95, which was adopted by the proposing representative, has been accepted. Of the 126 MPs, 122 voted for this amendment. I find that the amendment of the Committee has been accepted. The 99th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs Milorad Krstin and MP Drago Damnjanovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 103rd amendment was submitted by MP Drago Damnjanovic. Of the 126 MPs, 7. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milica Vojic-Markovic submitted the amendment together. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milica Vojic-Markovic submitted to the 110th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 114th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Dragan Zivkov and MP Draga Damnjanovic. Of the 127 MPs, five voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 115th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Radisa Ilic and MP Draga Damnjanovic. Of the 127 MPs, two voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milica Vojic-Markovic submitted the amendment to Article 115. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the draft law on game and hunting in general. Of the 127 MPs, 124 voted in favour. The National Assembly passed a bill on game and hunting. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and END OF THE LAW ON SCIENTIFIC ACTIVITY After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Scientific Action, in principle. Of the 127 MPs, 122 voted for the bill in principle. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Having adopted the draft law in principle and before moving to the amendment decision, I find that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment of the People's MPs: together with Zoran Šamija and Donka Banović to the members of the 3rd and 11th and of the Serboljub Živanovic to the members of the 3rd and 37, Donke Banovic to the 6th, Nikola Savić to the members of 11th and 24, Goran Mihajlovic to the members of 16th and 26, Zoran Šamija to the members of 24, 25, 25, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 42 and 47, Marko Milenkovic to member 25 and Nikola Žutić to Article 38, as well as amendments to the Committee on Science and Technological Development to Articles 6, 7, 43 and 47. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Shami. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Petkovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was filed by MP Zoran Shami. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 7th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Donka Banovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MPs Goran Mihajlovic and Zoran Shami in the same text. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 10th Amendment were submitted by MPs Srboljub Zivanovic and Zoran Shami in the same text. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Shami. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Petkovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 20th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 20th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Shami. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 21st Amendment was submitted by Srboljub Zivanovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 22nd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Shami. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 23rd amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 26th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Shami. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Shami. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 30th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 31st Amendment was submitted by Srboljub Zivanovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 32nd Amendment was filed by Ambassador Zoran Shami. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 33rd amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Goran Mihajlovic submitted to the 34th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 35th Amendment was submitted by Marko Milenkovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 36th Amendment was submitted by Nikola Savic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Alexander Martinovic submitted to the 39th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Goran Mihajlovic submitted to the 41st amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 42nd Amendment was submitted by Nikola Savic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 43rd Amendment was filed by Ambassador Zoran Shami. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 43rd amendment was submitted by Marko Milenkovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Alexander Martinovic submitted to the 44th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 45th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 46th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 48th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 56th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Shami. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Scientific Action, in general. Of the 127 MPs, 124 voted in favour. The National Assembly adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Scientific Action. We move to the 10th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and APPLICATION OF THE INOVATIONAL ACTIVITIES Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on Innovation Activity, in principle. Of 127 MPs, for 120. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Members of the 6th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Donka Banovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 14th Amendment was submitted by Srboljub Zivanovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Milan M. Nikolic submitted the 20th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 31st Amendment, with correction, was filed by MP Zoran Shami. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Science and Technological Development accepted the amendment, with a correction. Of the 127 MPs, 99 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 34th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 36th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Donka Banovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 38th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 39th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Donka Banovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on Innovation Activity in general. Of the 127 MPs, 125 voted in favour. The National Assembly adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law of Innovation Work. We move to the 11th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the bill on the Serbian Academy of Science and Art, in principle. Of the 127 MPs, 118 voted yes. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments to the MPs: Slobodan Samardzic to Article 6, Sim Vukovic, Art. 9th and 13th, Cedomir Jovanovic, Nebojsa Rangelovic, Ivan Andric and Nenad Prokic on Article 9, Zoran Shami on Article 43rd and Goran Mihajlovic on Article 45. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. National MP Nikola Žutic submitted an amendment, with an amendment, which he proposed to amend the title above Articles 1 and 1. Proposer Slobodan Milosavljevic, Minister of Trade and Services, accepted the amendment's particulars search, with a correction. Of the 127 MPs, 104 voted yes. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The first amendment was jointly submitted by Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Radovan Radovanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Olena Papuga. Of the 126 MPs, four voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Alexander Martinovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 2nd Amendment was jointly submitted by Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Radovan Radovanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Olena Papuga. Of the 126 MPs, three voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Nikola Žutic submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 2a be added after Article 2. Gentlemen, we're going to have to determine the quorum. Please insert the cards into the MPs' units. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Radovan Radovanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Olena Papuga. Of the 126 MPs, two voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Svetlana Stojanovic and Donka Banovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Please, when I realized we had a quorum problem, we did not declare the amendment of MP Nikola Žutić to Article 2. Please, let's do this now. Of the 126 MPs, four voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Svetlana Stojanovic and Donka Banovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Simo Vukovic. Of the 127 MPs, 24 voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Simo Vukovic submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of 10a be added after article 10a. Of the 127 MPs, 17 voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Simo Vukovic. Of the 127 MPs, 9 voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th Amendment was submitted by Srboljub Zivanovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Radovan Radovanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Olena Papuga. Of the 127 MPs, three is in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 15th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Shami. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 18th Amendment was jointly submitted by Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Radovan Radovanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Olena Papuga. Of the 127 MPs, 117 is in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 25th Amendment was submitted by MP Simo Vukovic. Of the 127 MPs, 22 is in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Donka Banovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 29th Amendment was submitted by MP Simo Vukovic. Of the 127 MPs, 16 is for. The amendment was not accepted. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Donka Banovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Simo Vukovic. Of the 127 MPs, 19 is in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 31st Amendment was jointly submitted by Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Radovan Radovanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Olena Papuga. Of the 127 MPs, three are in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 40th Amendment was jointly submitted by Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Radovan Radovanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Olena Papuga. Please, we're pleading again. The 40th Amendment was jointly submitted by Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Radovan Radovanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Olena Papuga. Of the 127 MPs, 120 is in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 49th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Shami. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the bill on the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, in general. Of the 117 MPs, 118 voted. The National Assembly passed a bill on the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts. We move on to the 12th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE GEOGRAPHICAL LABELS After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill's proposal in principle and in particular we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law on geographical indications, in principle. Of the 127 MPs, 123 voted for the bill in principle. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. After accepting the bill, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become the amendment of the People's MPs: Vitomir Plužarevic to Article 12, Donke Banović to Article 14, Donke Banović and Milice Vojić-Marković to Article 20, Donke Banović and Nikola Lazić to Article 22, Dragan Stevanović to Article 26, Radiša Ilic to Article 28 and 65, Milan Dimitrijevic to Article 36 and 46, Donke Banović and Milan Dimitrijevic to Article 37, Srboljub Živanovic to Article 40, Sladjan Mijaljevic to Article 42, Milan Škrbić to Article 49, Tomislav Ljubenović to Article 50, Vladan Jeremic to Article 54, Dušanka Plić to Article 55, Nikola Savivić to Article 71, Zoran Šamija and Donka Banović to Article 84 and the amendment to Article 61 of the Committee on Technology on Article 61. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 4th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 25th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 25th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Donka Banovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Donka Banovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic jointly submitted to the 28th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Milorad Krstin has tabled an amendment proposing a change of title above Article 29. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 29th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 39th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Donka Banovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 41st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Donka Banovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 42nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Donka Banovic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Nikolic. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 53rd amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Committee on Science and Technological Development accepted the amendment, with a correction. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible. Of the 132 MPs, 99 MPs voted for this amendment. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Member of the 63rd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Of 132 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on geographical indications, in general. Of the 134 MPs, 120 voted in favour of the bill as a whole. The National Assembly adopted the Bill on Tagmageographic Origin. We move to the 13th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF AMNESTIA After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I'm putting the amnesty bill to the vote, in principle. Of the 137 MPs, 136 MPs voted in favour of the bill. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Before moving to a decision, I remind you that the Legislative Committee is under Article 148(2). The Rules of Procedure rejected as the untimely amendments of MP Vladan Batic to the article. 4, 5 and 11; as an incomplete amendment of the People's MPs Sladjan Myaljevic, Nikola Savić, Sreta Perić and Momir Markovic, who submitted to Article 1. In accordance with Article 148(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, rejected amendments cannot be discussed and are not voted on. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 3rd amendment. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Of 137 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of 137 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of 137 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of 137 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 9th amendment. Of 137 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of 137 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sladjan Mijaljevic. Of 137 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of 137 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the amnesty bill on vote, in general. Of the 137 MPs, 133 voted in favour of the bill as a whole. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill to amnesty. We move to the 14th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE COUNTRY PREMISE AND CASTER Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill's proposal in principle and in particular we move to a decision. I put to the vote the Bill of Amendments and Supplements of the Law on State Prime Minister and Cataster, in principle. Of the 137 MPs, 119 were declared. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Of the 137 MPs, 111 voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Of the 137 MPs, 107 voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of 137 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment, added after Article 12a, was submitted jointly by the MPs: Cedomir Jovanovic, Judita Popovic, Zoran Ostojic, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic. Of the 137 MPs, 10 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the Bill of Amendments and Supplements of the Law on State Prime Minister and Cataster, in general. Of the 136 MPs, 122 voted in favour of the law. The National Assembly adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Time and Catastrophe. We move to the 15th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLIES OF THE LAW ON INTERNATIONAL TRANSPORT IN DRUMS COOPERATION As the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on international transport in road transport, in principle. Of the 136 MPs, 122 voted for this proposal. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the draft law in principle and before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment of the MP Nikola Savic to Article 1. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Transport and Connection Committee has not accepted the amendment. Of the 136 MPs, 108 voted in favour of the amendment. Amendment accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 136 MPs, 110 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 136 MPs, 121 voted for the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 136 MPs, 119 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milan Dimitrijevic. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Transport and Communications Committee, submitted an amendment to Article 7. Proposer Milutin Mrkonjic, the minister of infrastructure, accepted the amendment during a review of the bill in particular. Of the 136 MPs, 108 voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Of 136 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 10th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milan Dimitrijevic. Of 135 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milan Dimitrijevic. Of 134 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of 134 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of 134 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milan Dimitrijevic. Of 134 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on international transport in road transport, in general. Of the 134 MPs, 126 voted in favour. The National Assembly adopted a bill amending and supplementing the Law on international transport in road transport. Since we are now going to declare the ratifications of international agreements, item 16-32 of the agenda, please concentrate, given that it is necessary for these decisions to have most MPs. Since we are now moving to a decision on the proposals for the law on the approval of international contracts, i.e. the agreement (points 16 to 32 of the agenda) I remind you that on the basis of Article 105(3), point 6. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. I also remind you that the above-mentioned draft laws have not been submitted to the amendment or have been rejected by the Legislative Committee as untimely, so the National Assembly will vote in general on these drafts of the law. The exception is the draft law set out in item 30 of the agenda on which an orderly amendment has been tabled, and the National Assembly will vote on this bill in principle, in particular and in general. Before deciding on the draft law, I remind you that the Legislative Committee, on the basis of Article 148(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, dismissed as untimely amendments of the People's MPs: Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delic, Stefan Zankovic, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predraga Mijatovic, Ljiljana Miladanovic, Borisladovic, Milet Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mitsa Rogovic, Vukete Toskovic and Dragan Colić on Articles 2 and 3. It's a bill of law. In accordance with Article 148(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, rejected amendments cannot be discussed and are not voted on. Accordingly, I put to the vote a bill confirming the patent law treaty, in general. We move to the 16th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW FOR A CONCERNING THE PATENT RIGHT, PLEASE, WE WILL HAVE TO DETERMINATE THE QUORUM FIRST. Gentlemen, I'd like each of you to check your own identification, see if it's confirmed in the electronic system. Thank you. We are pleading on the bill of approval of the patent law treaty, in general. Of 127 MPs, all 127 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move on to the 17th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON CONSERVATION OF THE NECHANIAN CONTRIBUTION ON THE INTERNATIONAL CLASSIFICATION OF SERVANTS AND SERVICES FOR REGISTRATION OF 15. June 1957. Year, audited in Stockholm 14. July 1967. Years and Women 13. May 1977. YEARS AND AMENDMENTS 28 September 1979. For the year, I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Nice Agreement on International Classification of Goods and Services to register stamps from 15 June 1957, revised in Stockholm on 14 July 1967 and Geneva on 13 May 1977 and amended on 28 September 1979, in general. Of the 127 MPs, all 127 voted yes. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 18th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France on police cooperation, I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France on police co-operation, in general. Please plead. Of the 127 MPs, all 127 voted yes. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 19th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Swiss Confederation on Police Saradication in the fight against crime I place the motion for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Swiss Confederation on police co-operation in the fight against crime, in general. Of the 127 MPs, all 127 voted yes. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 20th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Accords between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the State of Israel in the fight against illegal trade and the use of narcotics and psychotropics, terrorism and other serious criminal acts I place on the vote of the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Israel on Co-operation in the fight against illicit trafficking and abuse of narcotics and psychotropic substances, terrorism and other serious criminal acts, in general. Please plead. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted yes. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Gentlemen, please concentrate, not much work yet, not to take a break. We move to the 21st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation between the Republic of Serbia and the Swiss Confederation on the Readmission of persons who are illegally staying, with the Protocol on the Application of the Agreement, I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Swiss Confederation on the reading of persons who are illegally staying, with the Protocol on the Application of the Agreement, in general. Please plead. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted yes. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 22nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on Police Saradnje I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on police co-operation, in general. Please plead. Of the 127 MPs, all 127 voted yes. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 24th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of NORWAY ON THE READMISSION OF PERSONS I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Norway on the readmission of persons who are illegally staying, in general. Please plead. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted yes. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We declare on the 23rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the surrender and acceptance of a person whose entry into the Republic of Serbia or the Government of the Republic of Croatia is illegal, with the Protocol on the Implementation of the Agreement, I am putting on the vote of the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose entry or stay is illegal, with the Protocol implementing the Agreement, in general. Please plead. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted yes. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 25th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Protocol Confirmation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Italy on the implementation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Community on the Readmission of Persons who are illegally staying, please, Members of the Members of the Parliament, to declare yourself. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted in favour. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 27th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between Serbia and Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina on Border Traffic of 127, 126 MPs voted in favour. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We repeat the vote on the 26th item of the agenda. We move to the 26th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Spain on the Recital Recognition and Replacement of National Drivers' Licenses of 127 Members, for 127. I find that most of the votes of all the MPs have passed the bill. We move to the 28th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on the Determination of Border Crossing between Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina Gentlemen Members, please concentrate and bring to an end today's vote. Of the 127 MPs, all 127 voted yes. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 29th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON A CONSERVATION OF THE GOVERNMENT CONSERVATION (REFINANCE OF THE SHORT DESCRIPTION, CONSTRUCTION OF THE UNDERTAKING OF THE GAS AND THE NETWORK OF THE NETWORK AND DISTRIBUTION OF GAS) BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND THE EUROPEAN CALCULATION BANK OF 127 MEMBER STATES, The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We are moving to the 30th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON CONSERVATION OF THE BOOK AND FINANCIAL ASSESSMENT OF KFW, FRANKFURT ON SERBIA AND THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA – THE PROGRAMME OF VODOSDED AND CANALISATION IN THE SERBIA SERBIA DESCRIPTION AND FRANGEMENTS IN SERBIA 2 Since this proposal is subject to amendment, I first of all put the proposal for a loan and financing law between KFW, Frankfurt on May and the Republic of Serbia – the Water Supply and sewerage Programme in the municipalities of medium size in Serbia – phase 2 in principle. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill in principle by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. The amendment to Article 3 was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the laws and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of its publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are particularly justified reasons for this, as set out in their adoption. In the light of the amendment to Article 3. The draft law states that the objective of the earlier entry into force is a shorter period for the application of the law. In view of the above, I note that by deciding on the amendment, the National Assembly will at the same time determine whether there are particularly justified reasons for the early entry into force of this law, which, of course, is decided by the Assembly. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 127 MPs, 12 voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I find that we have found that there are no particularly justified reasons for the early entry into force of this law by the Constitution of a set deadline. Since we have come to the conclusion on the draft law in principle and on the amendment submitted, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I am voting on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan and Funding Treaty between KFW, Frankfurt on May and the Republic of Serbia – Water supply and sewerage programme in medium size municipalities in Serbia I – Phase 2 in general. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority of the votes of all MPs a bill confirming the loan and financing agreement between KFW, Frankfurt at Main and the Republic of Serbia – Water supply and sewerage programme in Serbia's medium size municipalities I – Phase 2. We move to the 31st point of the agenda: – I am putting the proposal for a bill to confirm the International Convention on the Protection of New Plant Varieties in general. Of 127, it voted 126. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 32nd item of the agenda: – THE PROGRAMME OF THE LAW ON APPROVAL OF THE CONTRIBUTIONS BETWEEN SERBIA AND BLACK GORE AND UNITED US COUNTRIES ON THE STATUS OF THE INTERNATIONAL SCHOOL IN BELGRAD I am putting on the vote of the bill on the approval of the Agreement between Serbia and Montenegro and the United States on the status of international school in Belgrade, in general. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted in favour. The National Assembly passed the bill by a majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 33rd item of the agenda: – The list of candidates for the selection of one member of the Council of the Republic of Republics radiological agency Please, gentlemen of the Parliaments, after the National Assembly has carried out a single search, and before we move to a decision, I remind you that according to Article 105 paragraph 2 of Article 15) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the majority of the votes of all Members of Parliament decides on the selection of members of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. I also remind you that the Committee on Culture and Information is in accordance with Article 24. The Law on Broadcasting, established a list of two candidates for the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency from the order of the Association of Broadcasting Public Voices in the Republic of Serbia, the Association of Journalists in the Republic of Serbia, professional associations of film and drama artists in the Republic of Serbia, professional associations of composers in the Republic of Serbia, and this: Bozidar Zečević and Gordan Suš, of whom only one is elected as a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on a proposal to elect Bozidar Zecevic as a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. Of the 136 MPs, no one voted in favour. I am voting on a proposal to elect Gordan Suš as a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. Of the 136 MPs, 128 were declared. The National Assembly voted most of the votes of all MPs for a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency in the order of the Association of Broadcasting Public Voices in the Republic of Serbia, the Association of Journalists in the Republic of Serbia, professional associations, film and drama artists in the Republic of Serbia and professional associations of composers in the Republic of Serbia chose Gordan Suša. Allow me to congratulate Gordani Sushi on the election of member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency and wish her much success in her work. Please, we're still working the same way. We move on to the 35th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a choice of Deputy Commissioner for Information against Public Meaning and Privacy of Personality Data Since the National Assembly has conducted a single search on the proposal for a choice, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that the National Assembly, acting in agreement with Article 105 paragraph 2 of Article 15) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, decides, most of the votes of all MPs, on the selection of the Deputy Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting the motion on vote to elect Aleksandar Resanovic as Deputy Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted for Mr Resanovic. The National Assembly chose Alexander Resanovic as Deputy Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection as the majority of the votes of all MPs. Let me congratulate Alexander Resanović on your behalf and on my behalf and wish him success in his work. We move to the 36th item of the agenda: – REQUIREMENT FOR THE FUNCTION OF THE MEMBER STATE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA After the National Assembly has carried out a single search, we move to a decision. I am putting on the vote for a motion to relieve a member of the Health Council of the Republic of Serbia. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted in favour. The National Assembly adopted a decision to relieve members of the Health Council of the Republic of Serbia, Prof. Dr. Slobodan Jankovic, a regular professor of the Faculty of Medicine in Kragujevac, from 30 December 2009, at a personal request. We move to the 37th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON CONSTRUCTION OF THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE STATUAL DELEGATION OF THE National COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA IN THE PARLAMENTAL COMMUNITY OF FRANCOPHONY As the National Assembly carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that the National Assembly, acting in accordance with Article 105(2) of point 15 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, decides most of the votes of all MPs on the selection of members of the delegation. We're moving on to a decision. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted in favour. The National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision to establish a permanent delegation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia at the Parliament Assembly of Francophonia by majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 38th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE DECISION ON THE MEETING OF THE MEMBER STATE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA As the National Assembly has carried out the search and before the transition to decision, I remind you that according to Article 105(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the majority of the votes of all MPs, decides on the selection of members of the National Assembly board. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly Committee of the Republic of Serbia. We move on to the decision of the National Assembly on the injuries of the Rules of Procedure to which the MPs pointed. I remind you of the provisions of Article 100(6) and Article 10, on the occasion of the apparition of the Members of Parliament to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may require, without the right to an explanation, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known in the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic, at a session on 2 March 2010, at 11.00 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 16 March 2010, at 11 o'clock and 15 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. National MP Zoran Shami, at a session on 16 March 2010, at 17 hours and 12 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 149. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. National MP Radica Jocic, at a session on 16 March 2010, at 17 hours and 20 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 141. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of all the points of the agenda of this session and decision-making by them, pursuant to Article 99. I hereby conclude the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Thank you for your cooperation.
