ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46358	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to ask the State Department for an explanation and local self-government. It concerns Article 17. The law on parent books, which says in the first part that members of national minorities have the right to enter a personal name according to the language and the spelling of members of the national minority, which does not exclude the right to enter a personal name in the Serbian language. In practice, however, this does not happen in most cases. I see that in the municipality of Bujanovac there is a first entry in Serbian, though Latin, and in Vranj where most were born, as far as Presevo and Bujanovac are concerned, a former practice is used, that the Cyrillic letter first enrolls the name and last name, and then again, according to the law of the Serbian Latin, goes in a sense when parents seek or when citizens seek to respect their legal rights. However, I absolutely don't think the legal provision is respected. The legal provision is also not respected, and in the case of the authority of the administration in Nis, Kragujevac, Kruševec, Jagodina, Vranja, Leskovac and all centres where, under the Law on the Completion of the Law on Parent Books, the parent books for the Kosovo area are laid down. There is no respect for this legal provision. So, first it goes Cyrillicly, then it goes in a latin bracket, not an alphabet of Albanians, because you know that there are six letters in which the two alphabets differ, and then there is a deformation of the name and last name of Albanians. But now I'm adding an even more sensitive question here. When it comes to these units of administration bodies by the centres I mentioned, which issue births and citizenships for the citizens of Kosovo, but also for the citizens of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedje, who were born in the birthplaces of Pristina, Gjilan and other centres in Kosovo, there is no surprising practice that applies in all other municipalities, which is to be obtained in five minutes. It's digitized, it's all computerized now, and they have a state from 10 to 15 years ago. They've been keeping some kind of frozen, some kind of earlier state since the '90s. It's been waiting for days, even weeks. There's open corruption going on. There are different mediators who offer themselves to poor people who have to wait for a copy there for days. Now I ask why they had to go all the way to Jagodina, all the way to Kragujevac people from Presevo and Bujanovac to go for a copy? If he doesn't have judicial authority, he has to go to himself to secure that document and he has to go twice, and when he delivers the request and when he has to take over after a few days. For an ordinary document that is necessary in all applications or a series of other areas where the document must be provided. Imagine, it's been going on for over 11 years. If there is now one treatment for the citizens of Kosovo, one who was in the '90s, what should make it possible for them to have citizens of Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedje, why not provide what is allowed in all other municipalities, that a copy of the book of birth, a copy of citizenship and other similar documents is obtained in five minutes? Why does it take so many days to wait here and be harassed by people, that they even have to find intermediaries to finish the job? I think it's a serious thing. I used to run it before, but now I'm publicly looking for an explanation of why this is happening in our practice. What needs to be done to end one open discrimination, one open corruption. I think we need to see all the modals urgently to resolve this issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46359	Mr. Halimi, it's been five minutes. National MP Zoran Ostojić has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46360	My colleagues and colleagues, I was in the King on Monday, at the invitation of the local committee of our party and shared some thoughts with you. What I'm about to say to you executives, don't take this as some kind of fierce criticism, more like a desire to help, and I finally have some questions. The situation is much worse than it looks. The city is wasted, distracted and the damage inside the buildings is much greater than the damage visible from the outside. This earthquake has also exposed such a situation with the King and all the illogicalness, illegality and urbanism, and around construction and around surveillance, because the fact is that the heavy buildings that were built two or five years ago were damaged, which is absolutely proof that everything was wrong with respect to legal regulations when it was being built. If, say, the Colony, which was built in 1948, is really damaged and looks like it's going to have to collapse, then it's incomprehensible that it happened with almost new buildings. When it comes to the organization of life and help by the crisis staff, everything can't be solved by pi-ar. There's really a lot of illogicality. We need to understand that when people get hit by such an accident, then injustice is what must never happen. Help can arrive faster or slower, but there must be no injustice. What criteria divide the tick, no one's found it yet. It's clear that the teams that go and evaluate how damaged the buildings are, whether or not they can stay in them, they don't have people from the local self-government that will list as many in these buildings, where they can't live anymore, there are people, that they eventually move somewhere. People in objects that are prone to fall, and keep moving the ground, still living, can't leave their stuff, won't leave their stuff behind. It wasn't built, conditionally speaking, a system where these things could go. When we talk about the crep, it's obviously a phone call, not based on an assessment by a commission of damages. After a few days, yesterday or the day before yesterday, we heard that various malfeasances were detected. On the other hand, there are ticks that often cannot be put on the roof without putting new flights. If someone, say, is damaged five-six squares and needs 100-200 creps, often creps are not the same format, because there are kicks of Kickind 1 and Kickind 2, and they often get large amounts of ticks that aren't either kickind 1, or kickind 2, so they can't just patch up the hole, but they have to do the whole thing. On the other hand, we feel that people are left behind and left to themselves. Unprofessionally, the beams are often rotten, or the building is designed for demolition, or it will be torn down, and people who are not professional cover the crep, so a new earthquake comes along, and the new crep cracks. These are all some problems, I think, that with a little more organization would be removed. First of all, it must be known how much money has arrived and how much money will arrive, because the crisis staff has only announced how much money is in the account. The people in the King say they don't want the help to be shared on party grounds but shared on professional grounds. It seems to us that villages are also forgotten, always talking about the city of the King. All of these are some problems that need to be removed. We're short-lived people, it's also in sports. Now we've all jumped to help, but I'm afraid after two or three weeks we'll forget these people. So I ask the Government, we brought here to the College of the Assembly to separate all one diary for the King, as I recall, it was recommended that both the Government and all state authorities do so. This old country, with this kind of administration, if everyone, like us, would make a decision to single out a diary for the King, it would be serious money. So I ask the Government when will she make the decision that we have made from the Assembly and recommend to all state authorities that they set aside a diary for the King for the beginning? The announcement that the King will be helped through budget rebalancing is the only real and system aid, because this ad hoc, whether this one or that singer is going to do it, that's not the solution. (President: Time. I'm done. The reaction in these situations is essentially European value. That's why we want to bring Europe here, because a country in these situations has to be a state and show that it's capable of solving this problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46361	Ambassador Milos Aligrudic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46362	I listened very carefully to my predecessor, since my question is very similar to that asked by Zoran Ostojic. What amazes me is the relationship between the MPs in this room, no matter what political party they belong to, who do not listen to a colleague talking about something that happened in the King, about an earthquake all the time. Regardless of our differences, because LDP and DSS are on the opposite sides of the political scene and we're going at it hard, but I just can't believe it, and I have to stand in defense of my colleague Ostojic, who asked a very serious question, that apparently no one in the hall is interested in what he's asking, and 90% of the people here, to ask them what a man's been saying for a while, if they don't look at the stenogram, they have no idea. So, it's a very specific matter. The other day was the College, which you called, the President of the Assembly. Among other things, one item of the agenda was the matter of the King’s help and help. The DSS didn't attend that college. The public knows that the political position of the DSS parliamentary club is not to attend colleges. It's a principled political stance. However, not to respond to the fact that this is on the agenda, when we found out, we sent a letter informing you that, regardless of what will be at the College, the DSS in the Assembly decided that each of the MPs would make their personal contribution to help the King. Afterwards, we saw that such a measure was proposed to the MPs at the College, which I welcome and what is quite right. We've paid 10,000 dinars each, which is slightly less than ten percent of our total net income. We think that's correct. It would be nice if the rest of the Assembly, at least the MPs, had concluded that it was a minimum, but it's not such a problem, it's a personal relationship. He is a minimum, and if you've concluded that it's a single diary, I guess that's a minimum. Someone can give more, who feels like it's necessary. The point is something else. In this letter, which we have sent you, we have stated that we expect the National Assembly, as an institution of the system, to help. It is one thing to appeal to MPs who can make their contribution, it is not disputed, but the other thing is that we, as an institution of the system, and also some of the statements we heard in public with that college, turns out that we, from that college, invited other system institutions to react. So how can we as an institution of the system help? The way we see this help is similar to the way that Mr Ostojić suggested a moment ago. There must be a method that we as a congregation can react, say, to separate 10 million dinars to help the King. We can only formally do so through a decision of the National Assembly. There is no way that the Secretary of the National Assembly or you, as President, mark those funds beyond the means of spending that has already been established, but there is a possibility through budget rebalancing, there is a possibility through the Lex specialis, which can bring this Assembly, where we, as a parliamentary group, all of us, should be available to each other. So that's not controversial. If we have certain costs of investment for maintenance, etc., maybe we can postpone some of these works by one year, because this is an extraordinary circumstance and maybe we can redistribute the dedicated funds for a specific purpose. That's my question to you. First, did you read our letter at the College? You should tell us that, because you certainly got it before the college started. Just because we don't attend the College for political reasons doesn't mean that you don't have the obligation to meet our other colleagues with the memos we send to you, not because of you, but because of all of us. The second question, since we are already providing these funds, can the congregation react, what is your position? If you can't tell us now, the Assembly as an institution to tell us something, because it's not the point of asking us to jump you here and make points, if you can't answer me correctly now, if it's a question of previous consultations, then at least say it, so give us a written answer for the next two or three days with an idea. Third concrete question, can the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, i.e. Minister Markovic, to provide us with a specific review within the next week on how the funds have been spent, how are they specifically located for the needs of the Kings, and is there any physical clue about how these funds are going, so that various dilemmas and various speculations, which may have been unwarranted in public, are being denied? So that's my question and my suggestion at the same time.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46363	Mr. Aligrudic, he looks forward to your thinking exactly as did these members of the College who were at the College. Of course the College is publicly aware of the position of your parliamentary group and of the decision you have made. What we have discussed and what we are considering and thinking is that after the budget rebalance and the previous decisions of the Administrative Committee and the Assembly as an institution reacts, we have to wait for the budget to rebalance, but we have discussed it. We have called, of course, on all other institutions to, in accordance with the law and the potential that have the will to do so, maximum possible assistance to those who suffer. So we'll discuss the details at a time when it's realistic to make certain decisions. I appreciate the question. National MP Nikola Krpić has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46364	Dear President, since all these questions about the King have been raised today, as a royal, I would like to say – surely that there is quite a good record of the aid and everything else in the city itself. But in the King's moment, it is certain that solidarity is needed first and foremost, and it comes from all sides, and the city of the King is certainly grateful for that part of help. Another thing I'd like to say is, maybe one big help would be to have local self-government and work organisations on the territory of the King's municipality free from various contributions and the rest of what they must now have at this time when the economy is not working, when the city is devastated. Perhaps it is a release from the distribution of electricity, gas and so forth, I think it would be one aid at this point, if you and the Parliament and all MPs vote for it, it will certainly be one big help to the city.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46365	Of course it will be forwarded to the relevant entities. The word has the People's MP Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46366	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, have so far informed you of the difficult health condition of Professor Vojislav Seselj, who is in the tribunal's detention unit in The Hague. His health is still difficult and serious. He and after all the interventions that were conducted in The Hague have problems with arrhythmias, tachycardias, blood pressure. So none of the methods used in The Hague to treat him allegedly yielded results. The same happened with the last intervention, an operation that took place on October 28th. To this day its results, or the results of this operation, are unknown, nor has Vojislav Seselj been informed of these results. I would like to remind you that according to Serbian medical experts, Vojislav Seselj has been in therapy since October 2009. Cardiotoxic drugs, medications that cause arrhythmia, and to this day his therapy in this section has not been changed. For us lawyers, it's an absolute clear situation, if you give someone medicines that cause arrhythmias, and then that man gets more and more sick and you put his life in danger, then there's an attempted murder scene. If there is an attempt on the scene, all competent state authorities, including representatives of the ruling majority in the Assembly, must act in the right way. However, you are not only not responding properly, but representatives of the RS government, who are in Dragan Sutanovac, prohibiting Serbian doctors from giving their expert opinion on the health condition of Vojislav Seselj, as forbidden to the doctor Zdravko Mijalovic to give his expert opinion by Dragan Sutanovac. Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac also banned Zdravko Mijaliovic from showing up on the Health Committee when the health situation of Vojislav Seselj was discussed. The award came very quickly from the US Embassy, from the US Embassy, was donated to Minister Sutanovac for the first 74 thousand dollars, Miodrag Jevtic, who also banned Zdravko Mijaliovic as VMA, from appearing on the Health Committee and giving his expert opinion on the health of Vojislav Seselj. So a few days ago the U.S. Department of Defense promised a new million-dollar donation. There, it costs so much help in killing Vojislav Seselj, who is paid or is to be paid at the expense of the RS government and the Ministry of Defence. As far as the answers we received from the government regarding the health status of Vojislav Seselj are concerned, it is clear that the government of the RS has a fear of the UN tribunal, of the tribunal's prosecutors in The Hague, although the prosecution is only one party in the process, and some untrue data is being presented. First of all, we have stated that 16 Serbs wanted by the tribunal in The Hague have been killed so far. The RS government, in its October 2010 letter, cited a number of 14 Serbs, which has been incorrect. I would like to state here this occasion that they were also killed as the 15th Christo Micic, killed on 15 March 1999 in Ugljevik, Vidoje Tomic was killed on April 3, 1999, as the sixteenth and as the 17th, the wife of a suspect by The Hague tribunal suffered from Rada Abazovic. An 11-year-old child was injured on that occasion. I remind you that when Dragan Gagovic was killed in his vehicle, there were children, five children from 11 to 12 years of age. In addition to all this, you continue to hand over Serbs to the UN tribunal in The Hague. You have increased General Ratko Mladic's reward to ten million. Here, the first reported by Tomislav Nikolic, who said on November 10th that he was ready to hand over General Ratko Mladic to the tribunal in The Hague that killed 17 Serbs, or 17 Serbs died from the tribunal's warrant in The Hague, that tribunal in The Hague, which was sought by the Russian Federation on 8 November 2010, by a statement by the Foreign Ministry. You really should be ashamed of all this.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46367	Do any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) Since none of the representatives, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, are answering for a word, we continue to work. We inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by MPs Aleksandra Ilic and Miroslav Markicevic. We're continuing our work. We move to the 35-36th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON DECLARATION TO THE INSTITUTION RULES AND SUSTEMATISATION OF WORK POSITIONS IN THE PROPOSAL SERVICE OF THE PROFESSIONAL AUTHORITY CONSERVATION AND SUPPORT OF A CONSOLIDATION OF THE DESCRIPTION OF THE EDUCATION DECISION AND THE WORK OF THE PROFESSORS FOR THE PROTECTION OF EVALUTION (Common Single Search) This is the 35th and 36th points of today's agenda. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint single search on Acts Proposals under points 35 and 36 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 192, Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as scheduled in the following way: the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the Parliamentary group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS-Vojslav Kostunica parliamentary group - 24 minutes; the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the minority parliamentary group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS parliamentary group - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of parliamentary groups, have the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to file an application for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorized them to represent the People's Parliament of the Prophets of the SRS. There is no longer any authority pursuant to Article 192(3) and Article 193. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Regulation on the internal organisation and systematization of jobs in the professional service of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Proposal for a decision to give consent to the decision on the education and work of the Professional Service of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Does a representative of the Justice and Administration Committee want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46368	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we begin this item of the agenda with a kind of discrimination of regulations, because when we were supposed to discuss a group of laws the other day, then you absolutely in line with the Rules of Procedure interrupted the session because we didn't have a proposing representative. We don't have a proposaler's representative again today. We don't insist on it, we're already used to it, but I'm just saying it can't even be about discrimination, because discrimination against the application of the regulation leads to discrimination that should be taken into account by the Commissioner for Equality. This is about the congregation majority and how interested you are to essentially do any job you start, because someone told you to do it. Today we have two decisions, i.e. a proposal for a decision and a proposal for a regulation on the internal organisation and systematization of jobs in the professional service of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. If someone accidentally read these two proposals, he could notice that these are minors of two identical texts, but we noticed what these two texts differ in the first page. The Internal Regulation and the Systematization of Jobs have been proposed by the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality Dr Neven Petrusic. I must draw attention to the fact that there is no trustee in the Law and the Constitution, and the decision on the education and work of the Professional Service of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality has been proposed by Commissioner Dr Neven Petrusic. Either this translation is wrong or there's another discrimination against the rules. The trustee does not exist, there is a trustee and that is by the will of the majority of Mrs. Nevena Petrusic. To speak individually about these members is quite pointless because both of these and other proposals represent the copying of already existing regulations, the Law on Civil Service, first of all, and nothing new and anything specific to this job in these two acts. I have already said that they are absolutely no different, but here are two differences – one in Articles 8 and 1 and the other, the other in Article 14 and let's comment. Article 8 says – the position of the professional service of the trustees is the assistants of the trustees and the chief of staff and then the trustees fall into the first group of positions, and the chief of staff is elected by the end of the term of office and belongs to the third group of positions. Article 8 of this second act, which is called the decision, says trustees have been placed in office for five years on the basis of an internal or public competition, and the cabinet chief is placed in office until the end of the trustee's term. There are two issues here. First question - how many assistants will Ms. Neven Petrusic appoint? The second question is, why are assistants chosen in one way and the chief of staff in another way? Why is the chief of staff attached to the trustee's mandate? Is there equality represented here in the application of this article? Is there no discrimination here, too? We say yes. Does this not mean that party personnel will be elected to this place, and I remind you, the law says that the Trustee of Equality is an independent regulatory body? So you're proving that we in the SRS were right when we claimed that there was no independent regulatory body, but that these were all party solutions. We repeat that it should be because there is no reason for anyone to hide and lie to the public that he is completely independent, if he is elected by 126 MPs who belong to certain parties, and these parties make up the ruling majority. He is an interesting member of 12, who speaks of complaints from civil servants in the professional service on solutions that decide on their rights and duties. Then, the Board of Appeal can educate the trustee from the employees' order, and the next position afterwards says that members of the Labour Commission are receiving compensation. We ask the question – if commissions are employees, why should they receive special compensation except for the fee they receive as employees? Article 14 states that in one act, the decision states that the activities of the investment and technical and ongoing maintenance of facilities, equipment, transport operations, as well as other joint administrative and technical tasks necessary for the exercise of trustee's competence and for the work of the professional service shall be carried out in accordance with the rules governing the performance of these tasks for all state authorities. This second act, which is the regulation, states that it is the Office for Joint Affairs of Republic Authorities. It's not disputed, but we're talking about completely unnecessary here we have two acts, when one act could regulate everything, because essentially these two acts are, as the public could hear, absolutely identical. The public is also able to see equality applied in this parliament, or discrimination against MPs in parliament. A short time ago when colleagues spoke through parliamentary questions about what the position of the parliamentary groups, when it came to the tragedy that took place in the King, the president said that all the parliamentary groups in that college agreed on how MPs could help the victims in the King. First of all, that's not the exact information. A representative of the SRS parliamentary group, Mr Dragan Todorovic, on behalf of the parliamentary group and, on behalf of the SRS, asked for a clear and loud vote that the Assembly would take the view that the 10m euros the government in the budget reserve intended for some traitor who would sell Ratko Mladic's head, so immediately that the funds would be channelled to help the victims in the Kingdom and it would be correct to say so. Of course, the MPs of the SRS want to help, and since they all boasted about it, we do not think we should boast of it but rather of being human in action, not just to hear it. Members of the SRS have already raised funds and we will give these funds to one of the institutions that is most needed and we will agree on what institution it will be today. We didn't want to first because you didn't accept our proposal for these 10 million, and on the other hand because we don't want Nenad Konstantinovic to brag about how he's going to deploy those funds, such as the funds collected by the Assembly of Penalties, which are paid exclusively by SRS MPs, and because we're discriminated against, I'll explain in how he boasts that some DS activists will share that money by Serbia. So, speaking of discrimination or inequality in the Assembly, in addition to what I said, we are subject here on a daily basis, we Members of the SRS to a kind of mobbing. And yesterday it happened. It happened a few days ago, and there's maltenes happening on a regular basis. When a member of the SRS intervenes in the Rules of Procedure and the chairman finds out, like this, he remembers that an SRS MP abuses intervention by the Rules of Procedure, because the chairman thinks there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure, then the SRS MP is given a warning, and that warning costs about seven and a half thousand dinars, I don't know precisely, I haven't received a solution yet, this last one, how much is that notice. When the MP of the DS or the head of the parliamentary group abuses in the same way – and we think not, because the position of the SRS is that the MP can speak indefinitely and that he can say everything he thinks he has to say; when we are the majority and when we decide what the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly will look like, then there will be no restrictions to address the MPs of Parliament and the public – so when you judge that the ruling majority also abuses the Rules of Procedure then warn that MP and it costs him nothing. Is it not discrimination against the MPs of the people, and is it not a mobing which the chairman, on the basis of nothing, because there is no such possibility in any regulation, does it over the MPs of the people. We claim that it is and it is interesting that Mrs Petrusic, who you have claimed here is an ideal solution, has never once answered the subject. I watched her on several shows, she talked about political mobbing, and I expected that she would draw attention to parliament's chairmans not to make political mobbing to the SRS' ambassadors. Political mobing is present not only here, look at the state of local self-government. See how the authorities in local self-government are mobbing over employees. I know for a fact that several proceedings have been brought before the competent courts, and although these are procedures that should be handled by an emergency procedure, for several months the proceedings have been in court and the trustee is not responding. The trustee must be interested in the application of this law at the outset. The trustee should be interested in Serbia's courts whether they have requirements to establish a mobing position and if they have to push the courts to do so, to stop talking about how you advocate equality, how you stand up for any discrimination, and in part do nothing. We have been talking for two months about the endangered fundamental human rights of Vojislav Seselj, which is the right to live. I'm talking about his compromised right, informing you about the state of health. We urge persistent authorities in Serbia to report on the matter. None of those independent regulators answered. Mrs. Petrusic is the first in what the law tells her to answer and to react and to say – people, you have no right to discriminate against the citizen of the Republic of Serbia, citizen Vojislav Seselj. We're not answering. Isn't that discrimination in action? Yes, it is. Then what's going on? It happens that with our public appeals, our public distraction of the whole of Serbia knows how to treat citizens of the Republic of Serbia in The Hague tribunal. Recently, citizens could hear from counterpart Boris Aleksic that 17 Serbs were killed directly or indirectly in The Hague. Despite that fact, you continue to insist on sending two more Serbs, Ratko Mladic and Hadzic, to the UN anti-Serbian guillotine, and for that, you are giving money. Already today Tomislav Nikolic appeared, I imagine he had little money from various intelligence services and from Boris Tadic when he tried to break up the SRS, so he would also get the 10 million for Ratko Mladic's head and already today says he is ready to hand Ratko Mladic over to The Hague tribunal. Why am I bringing this up? Because for two years, we have been saying that you discriminated against the citizens of Serbia because you allowed Tomislav Nikolic and this handful around him to form a parliamentary group because the mandates won in May 2008 were won on the basis of the SRS programme. We've had these mandates stolen, and I'm mentioning this in the context of these two proposals because I want to remind you and I'm just confirming the argument that these two years we're right when we insist on returning the kidnapping mandates. Because if Tomislav Nikolic had mentioned in the campaign in 2008 at the SRS meetings that it was for the handover of Ratko Mladic, he would not have been starred as Montgomery at his rally, but would have been kicked off such a rally. So that is proof that all mandates won, all 78 mandates, were won among other things by the SRS that Ratko Mladic must never be extradited to The Hague tribunal. You see how one of you talks and the other you work. I do not believe that now and earlier, and especially now, it is not unclear for any of you that this is really discrimination, no less than the will of Serbian citizens, millions of Serbian citizens. What's coming to us now? We're being prepared by the media slowly for the introduction of a verbal delinquent. For what? Because let one or more groups of fans scandal at the games -- save Serbia and kill yourself, Boris, and the game breaks up because of such scandals. Of course, we do not call on any kind of even scandal that can bring anyone into an awkward position and in any way endanger his life. It is logical that Boris Tadic will not come to mind and thank God and should not be killed because someone is calling him to save Serbia. He will, as a man who has kept his trumpet, have to resign to save Serbia. Years back at DS meetings, there was shouting -- save Serbia and kill Slobodana, save Serbia and kill Kostunica, and not only at football matches, but at DS meetings, it cried out, and it didn't bother anyone, and now obviously this dictatorship will bring us back, and this dictator will bring us back to Broz's time and reintroduce the verbal delicacy so that someone won't let God insult his highness. Why didn't Mrs. Petrusic answer? Why hasn't she called – people can't do that, this is a free country. After all, in the Constitution of the RS, this and the one that was before this are guaranteed maximum of all basic human and minority rights to every citizen living in the Republic of Serbia. It's not an act issue. It's an application problem. The problem is discrimination against Serbian citizens by the competent state authorities. The problem is that the RS government is daily discriminating citizens so that possible jobs can be obtained by someone who is a member of a ruling majority party, who loses jobs every day and cancels tens of thousands of Serbian citizens, that pensioners do not get what you promised them in the campaign, which you agree with the IMF on Serbian citizens... (President: Time. I'm done. Thank you very much. I see I've wasted my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46369	Dear Members of the People, I would like to inform you that pursuant to Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly until the opening of a joint single search of the application for a word in writing with the order of MPs were submitted by the SRS parliamentary group. I give my word to MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46370	Ladies and gentlemen, equality is a word that is often heard in this congregation and in society at all, but also one of the fluids that is slightly respected in both places. All the talk of equality in Serbia is mainly about defending allegedly threatened gays and lesbians and allegedly threatened national minorities in Serbia. It would be no wonder that this does not occur in a country where the white plague reigns, in which the mortality is greater than the birth of 33,000 more people per year than it is born, in which the number of pensioners dangerously approaches the number of workers, in which there are more than 60,000 abandoned rural estates, in which there are more than 300 desert, abandoned, dead villages, in which each fourth marriage is divorced. Instead of campaigning to protect maternity rights, children's rights, instead of campaigning to encourage the birth of enormous social energy, we spend a huge amount of money on defense, for affirmation of gay rights and lesbians. The threat of national minorities in Serbia is said at a time when a national minority is occupied 15% of RS territory, at a time when Serbs on KIM under the terror of a national minority live in a ghetto without basic human rights, at a time when the Serbs in Novi Pazar when a Turkish national team, especially in some sports such as basketball and football, takes some significance of victory not to go out on the street, they cannot scandal – this is Serbia, but that is why several thousand members of the Muslim people free of any reaction from the state can scandal for an hour – this is Turkey and that they are waving dozens of Turkish flags in their hands. This is what happens in the country of Serbia where you have dozens of settlements in the north of Vojvodina, in the north of Serbia where the signs of meat, street names are written exclusively in Hungarian, which is quite the opposite of the Constitution and the law. I will talk about some examples of inequality that the trustee of equality and his professional service should deal with. I will begin with examples of violations of the principle of equality here in the congregation. My colleague, Verica Radeta, has already talked about the inequality of parliamentary parties. The ruling parties here in the assembly can change their own MPs whenever they want and how they will, and opposition parties are allowed only if that corresponds to DS and ruling majority parties. Once again, I point to the sad, incredible fact that the SRS has been kidnapped by 21 parliamentary mandates, and that the DSS has recently been kidnapped by one parliamentary mandate, and now we have an abnormal situation where representatives of the political party who did not exist in the highest legislative body of the RS Assembly were sitting at the time of the elections for this assembly of the RS. We are also witnessing the inequality of the MPs of the people. The penalty measures applied to opposition MPs are far more rigorous than those applied to the ruling majority. I have to point out my own personal example. At a session held on 12 October, Deputy Speaker of the Assembly Gordana Komic said that I was breaking the order at the session at the moment I was watching the TV broadcast session at the assembly restaurant. The third example from the congregation is a violation of the rights of victims of war, that is, the inequality of victims of war based on nationality. The most difficult example of discrimination certainly is the adoption of a resolution on the condemnation of crimes against Muslims in Srebrenica several months before the declaration of condemnation of crimes against Serb peoples and citizens of Serbia and members of national minorities was adopted. If the government in Serbia had respected the principle of equality, humanity and justice, then the Serbian Parliament would have condemned all crimes simultaneously with one declaration. If two declarations were to be adopted, the declaration of condemnation of crimes committed against the Serb people must first be adopted. This is why – first, because this is the home state of the Serbian people. If we're not going to defend ourselves, who else has the obligation to defend us? Secondly, Serbs are the biggest victims of the latest wars that took place in the Balkan Peninsula from 1991 to 2000. Third, a very indicative fact is that Croats and Muslims have committed two crimes of genocide against the Serb people over the past 100 years. But parliaments in Sarajevo and Zagreb never dared those crimes, not at a time when there was an independent state of Croatia, not at a time when the SFRY existed, nor at a time when Croatia and BiH are now said in this new speech by democratic European states. I simply don't think it's normal for a nation over which two crimes of genocide were committed, first convicted, to apologize first to those who have committed these crimes of genocide. The next example is this declaration of criminal conviction against Serbs and other Serbian citizens adopted by the assembly, I think, October 7th. There are more examples of discrimination in the declaration, not only discrimination against Serbs, but also discrimination against Croats and Muslims. What's this about? First, there is no mention of crimes against Serb soldiers in Slovenia. Secondly, if the declaration of condemnation of the crimes committed by Serbs lists a concrete example of Srebrenica, then at least one concrete example of mass crimes against the Serb people must be listed in this other declaration. In particular, I mean the crimes in Sarajevo, the crimes in Posavina and the crimes in Podrinj, for the reason that these crimes, if they don't tend, are, by their own size, by their brutality the level of crime committed in Srebrenica. I just remind myself of one fact that most of the victims in Srebrenica, where a crime was apparently committed, were members of the Muslim army that previously committed terrible crimes against the Serb population and that Serbs were killed in Sarajevo. According to official data from the Republika Srpska MUP, 9,300 Serbs, about half of the soldiers and half of the civilians, were killed in Sarajevo. Most of these civilians had nothing to do with the war, they never took a gun in their hand, never put on a uniform, they were simply taken out of their apartments, often the whole family and brutally murdered. I think it was our duty to condemn those crimes first. The third principle is equality is also affected in the qualification of crime and condemnation of criminals. We have called here Muslim and Croatian crimes a crime. The Muslims and Croats who committed those crimes were called criminals. And criminals from the NATO Pact, who have committed aggression against Serbia, who have killed three thousand and wounded 15,000 Serbian citizens, have not been called criminals. Their intervention, their aggression against Serbia in Yugoslavia, was not called crime but intervention. I do not justify any crime, especially against the members of my own people, but I have more understanding of the crimes committed by Croats and Muslims because we are bound by some historical misunderstandings, blood revenge, a thousand uncleared accounts and somehow I can understand them. But I can't understand and justify that someone comes from the United States, from the United Kingdom, from Belgium, from the end of the world who has nothing to do with Serbia, raises thousands of planes and kills Serb children for three months. The next example of treading the principle of equality is when Serbian President Boris Tadic went to Srebrenica on July 11th, voiced regret over the death and death of Muslim soldiers, and then the next day at Petrovdan, refused to go to Bratunac and to express regret over the deaths and killings of 3,500 members of his own people, most of whom are civilians - women and children. Instead of going to Bratunac, he goes to Novi Pazar to hang out with the president of Turkey. He sends one of his own to the Bratunite, let him forgive me, yet less significant second-rate counsellor. The next example of inequality is an example of discrimination between Serbian citizens, Ratko Mladic. I draw attention to the fact that Serbian citizen Ratko Mladic has never been convicted of a single crime. He's never paid a felony sentence. You have examples every day where Ratko Mladic is called a war criminal by top state officials. From the trustees for the protection of equality, from these professional services, and I see that there are many services, thank God there are enough of them, they have plenty of money at their disposal, I ask for a little commitment to the protection of the administration, the human rights of the Ratko Mladic family. I think they, like all Serbian citizens, have the right to a normal life and to their privacy before they are ever convicted. I remind Serbian citizens that Ratko Mladic's wife, her son and his family, are under 24-hour supervision, that all their not only phone conversations are tapped, but conversations that lead to the house, which even in the bedroom and the double bed. I draw attention to the fact that Ratko Mladic's family is denied the right to enjoy a pension that Ratko Mladic has earned honorably. I also draw attention to the fact that the state is preventing the son of Ratko Mladic, Darko Mladic, from doing business normally, from earning money and feeding his family. I'll only come up with two more examples. Under the RS Constitution, all citizens of Serbia are equal before the law. Everyone has the right to legal aid and to protect their own state, especially if they need that legal aid and protection abroad, if they are arrested somewhere in a foreign prison. I point out that for eight years, the president of the SRS has been neither guilty nor debtor in the Hague dungeon. He's being tried on a false charge. During the procedure, he was violated by all possible procedural and human rights, including the right to treatment, the state of Serbia is shamefully silent. I ask the question, the human question, not as an SRS MP, but as a Serb and a member of this people, as a citizen of Serbia – what else should happen to Vojislav Seselj? What should happen is that the President of Parliament of the RS, that the President of the RS, that the RS Prime Minister says a lot – aman, people, he is our political opponent, he is an irreconcilable opponent and enemy of the West because the West leads a criminal policy towards the Serbian people, but he is a citizen of Serbia. He's a man who didn't commit any crimes. He's the father of four children and has the right to basic elemental protection. We've now had the case that Vojislav Seselj was operated on in some category "S" hospital, under completely unexplained circumstances, under false identity. It's incomprehensible to me, believe me, incomprehensible on the human side. That Hashim Thaci was there and that it was done to him, it is incomprehensible for me that the state of Serbia as the country of origin of its people does not react, at least with a single courteous statement and condemnation of the crime that seems to be against Vojislav Seselj. The last example, I spoke of him once, with obvious imbalances and obvious double arches. I remind you that on October 5th 2000, members of political parties, but also members of various mobs, cheerleaders and who knows which groups set the Serbian Parliament on fire, set the TV building on fire, well robbed both. They broke the windows on, I think, about three hundred stores in Belgrade hurt about 70 police officers. They took down 300 officers in their underwear, took over the Old Town police station, took 300 pieces of weapons, among them snipers, machine guns, and then shared it in Belgrade. These people were then qualified, and I quote the statements of senior DOS officials at the time – they are our children. That's one statement. The second statement - it is the conscience of our people. Third qualification – they are Serbia's future. The same story, with only minor proportions and minor consequences, took place on October 10th 2010. Broken one store, injured 50 cops...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46371	People's MP, please make the arguments you're making in connection with the agenda point. The agenda item is the internal arrangement, the agreement on internal organisation and the systematicisation of jobs in the Trustee's professional service for the protection of equality and consent to the decision on the education and work of the Trustee's expert service for the protection of equality. I ask you, in your debate with these points of the agenda and with the law on which it was formed and added to the decision on the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, to make a connection. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46372	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. All this stuff I've been saying so far was about the subject. Now I'm going to be specifically on this expert service bill for information, I just have to finish the previous sentence. So, the ones that just broke one store...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46373	People's MP, I reminded you of the law and under which law the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality was elected and what the topic of the agenda was, and I ask you to bring your presentation, on the basis of the obligation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, into contact with the subject of the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46374	Mrs. Comic, thank you. I believe that this intervention of yours has confirmed my claim at the beginning of this discussion and that there is no equality of MPs in this House. In protest, I end my discussion, and Serbian citizens see what is happening in this assembly and will draw conclusions in any case.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46375	I warn you that you are not misleading the public and that you do not consider your right to abuse the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, or your rights as a MP to abuse in such a way as to qualify, or disqualify all other Members of the People. You are carefully heard, with insight into the stenogram you can see that by listening carefully you have been waited long enough to bring any of what you are saying into connection with the subject of the agenda, to what is the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly bound you to do. On the contrary, you do not want to behave under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, nor do you want to listen to the warning of the chairman. I am at your disposal to act on the basis of Article 103 in those cases where the MP insists that he be punished by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46376	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, today we are making two decisions that are seemingly technical because they should provide Mrs Petrusic, elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as Commissioner for Protection against Discrimination, to be able to do the job. I must immediately say, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, that the fate of both Mr Jankovic and Mr Sabic is being repeated in some way, because first of all, under enormous pressure from various NGOs, the European Union and in the context of some law being passed, and as a result, they choose such seemingly independent bodies as the Commissioner for Protection against Discrimination, and then we come to one situation that they have a technical problem or that they are very late with a decision on the education of that body, how it should work in the interests of citizens, which is obviously not the case here. If you remember now when Mrs Petrusic was elected to be a trustee, we are already as parliament, respected fellow MPs, coming to the period when she should submit the first report because she is obliged, whether or not the deadline, to submit the first report on her work because she is elected by the Assembly, and she obviously will not be able to do so in time, because of the fact that she is late and that now she has yet to educate the body that will help her work. On the other hand, the main contractors of the work with the creditors whose obligation is to implement the Law on Protection against Discrimination, namely the Law against which the SRS was against, were primarily applied selectively, because it was also adopted, we also said that the law was explicit, the colleague Maric and before him, Mrs Verica Radeta, our authorised representative, in order to protect some categories and some people in this society who, in the opinion, not only of us Serbian radicals, because he thinks so many Serbian citizens, his efforts and all that they think are new so-called values, want to show because the law has enabled them, and this is not in the spirit of Serbian tradition, culture and what we Serbs are as a people. As a consequence of this, we had recently unloved events on October 10th on the streets of Belgrade and believe me, in the future because this society, not only is it not mature, but it is not in the spirit of our tradition and what we are as a people, it can happen that we have such repeated cases. Now we have to remind the citizens, since it was a long time ago, not because they have short memories, but because you, as representatives of the authorities, have a short memory, because you adopt a law, and later do not talk about whether it is being implemented or not, do not say it in your presentations, as Mr Krasic does, here, did one analysis yesterday about the borrowing of citizens of Serbia and the state in the past 10 years, so he was warned by Mrs Kolundžija that he had strayed into darkness etc. I want to use my right to remind you that when the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination was passed, it was clear that many citizens of Serbia would not benefit from it. The law was unnecessary because by adopting the Mitrovica Constitution four years ago we defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia what it is that it should protect national minorities in our country and national minorities in Serbia. Through all the members of the Constitution, throughout the entire chapter, they have the highest degree of protection, of course, it can always be more. You know the SRS's pledge, and besides, we promoted it to the 20th anniversary of our party, on January 23rd of this year, the national minority, you are now just declaring itself, and that they must have and be incorporated much more into the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia than is now the case. If we draw a line, we can talk today, since it's the trustee's job to do, who's being discriminated in Serbia today. These are indeed, Mrs. Komic, Mr. Odalovic, the large structures of our population, because the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination must protect the Constitution in each of its members. Now I don't have enough time to talk about all the areas that the Constitution knows as the highest legal act and categories of protection of the rights of man and citizen, but to come from the right to work. Doesn't the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia say that everyone in Serbia has the right to work? How, then, with some individual act, if a man is discriminated against, and he is, first if he competes in the state service, competitions, various agencies that you produce and who pay citizens with their money with poor pockets, through taxes, no one can get a job. So tell me -- how now 200,000 people who have lost their jobs in the past two years, from May 2008 to today, are going to be instructed through this form published on the website of the trustee, or service, because the form exists and the service is just being educated to seek protection of its rights? No, because that employee at the flag who was a WHO, who was expelled from the factory, who witnessed that the flag car factory no longer exists, but that only about 1,500 workers were admitted in this newly formed factory to work on the production of "punta". I have to tell you, and be sure, unfortunately, that's how it's going to be next year, instead of the 84 working days that the Fiat-Zavat factory had, the Fiat factory in Kragujevac, was this year, they predict that next year they'll only have 50 working days. For what? Because they don't have a job. Why? Because the market isn't looking for that car model, although 30 are so pompously celebrated, 30 thousand were removed "full" from the tape, our market, the poor citizens simply have no place to buy it. Are Serbian citizens being discriminated against, Mrs Comic, against the ministries and these agreements we adopted, and Serbia is in charge of these agreements yesterday for the new 250m euros? Yes, because when we go to the banks and we take payment cards, or if we need some credit, we have to pay very high interest, which are slippery and which are variable and which go up to over 20% on an annual basis. For these rivalry cards, etc., I don't know, it's amazing what kind of greenery is, with these banks that you've allowed to do so with the citizens of Serbia. When the ministries take certain loans and individuals from the government of the Republic of Serbia make a variety of deals, they receive interest of only 1.8%. Where's the equality? How can a normal man survive? Do you think this lady's function is only on paper and that people will even turn to her and seek the protection of their rights? Please, if you go all over Serbia, if you think those people in Doljevac, who offered to sell their kidneys because they had nothing to survive from, a Serbian peasant who doesn't have two throats of cattle in the barn and who to sell to, because it simply doesn't pay him off, that they will sit down and fill out the form, take him off the Internet and send him to the trustee and that the lady with this service, which he now educates, decides that you are wrong. I'm very interested, since she is now being educated by this decision by her service, when the first report comes about what the citizens' performances will be like and who will complain to her. Those who feel that it is not enough to pass such a radical law in 2009, that it is not enough to define the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia which defines freedoms and rights of man and citizen in the best possible way, and does not want to complain about a worker who has lost his job or a single mother or young people, and who are increasingly hundreds of thousands in Serbia who have no place to work, educated who have finished high schools, but who do not see the future and who do not see the perspective, but are using this white Schengen list, which is also the European office report, to travel and to stay there to work without ever returning to Serbia. Therefore, we believe that a huge number of Serbian citizens today are being discriminated against. Their rights are not respected and they have no one to complain to. We have some local environments, such as the Kragujevac, the Ombudsman. If you ask me, in the reports that we receive as councilmen of the City Assembly, what are the greatest torments of the people of Kragujevci? The delay in the process of legalisation, the fact that the Law on Planning and Construction, which was changed here, was brought a year ago, that they could not get agricultural loans to subsidise the economy, that there were many unresolved property-legal relations, that they were missed in certain laws as a category. Here are the people who have the right to know this, especially the experts from the SRS for property-legal relations, to use the city's building land they got after it was found that during some period, some of their ancestors had confiscated these assets, but they can't build on that land. When you address the ministry in charge, they say – you know, by passing the law we missed that category of people. Who knows how many cases there are? We have passed the Law on Gender Equality, and we have appealed to the minister and to all of you that you must take much more care of single parents, not only single mothers, because there are also single fathers in Serbia, and also unprotected children. Mrs. Komic, you know very well, because like me, you are also a member of the child rights working group, that we should pass a set of laws that will protect children's rights in Serbia next year. If it's like this now after the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination is passed, imagine only when we are, and if we ever bring those five-six laws into this, how long will it take, then who will and how will take care of the children of Serbia? You see how the tragedy of the citizens of the kings is abused for the worst possible political purposes. Mr Momcilo Duvnjak and Professor Goran Mihajlovic visited the area as representatives of the SRS the other day, as well as colleagues Sreto Peric and Professor Paunovic. They were not asked to be photographed by cameras and to enter with them and further worsened the position of these people in destroyed homes that were cut in half, but went and stayed the most in the large village of Sirca, which was extremely affected. Let Professor Mihajlovic and his colleague Duvnjak tell you what these citizens have said. "This tragedy has hit us, and this accident has been very difficult for us. Somehow we'll try, if it's worth it, to fix those houses, but if one of us from a house that doesn't work for four or five people, we'd still be happy. "Unfortunately, we have victims of that earthquake, but still, as it could have been, those people are lucky to have their heads on their shoulders. They ask opposition MPs where they can find a job. What are people gonna tell them? That the competitions were staged, that the King's economy had failed, that, as in Kragujevac, the metal complex had been destroyed, there the Car Factory and everything that was done by Magnochrom, etc. After all, wherever you step, that's the situation all over Serbia. That is why, Mrs. Comic, it is not just the password that says on my badge – Serbia is waiting for Seselj. We didn't just write it so that in addition to our president's character, who still in this picture as well as in the court of the Hague case, although they want to kill him with inadequate treatment, laughs, gives support and tells the people that he should fight, but because people ask us, as in the King, as well as peasants at the market, as well as trade unions, as everyone else does, when will Seselj come back? That's why this steam is waiting for Seselj. Be assured, despite the fact that the state authorities, which the lady did not answer, in the end, she watched sessions and the transfer of the Serbian Parliament, in a very bad way interpreted the remarks made by our opposition MPs to discriminate against the rights of elected representatives here. We are the sovereign peoples of Serbia. By choosing MPs, the people transferred some of their sovereignty to us. There's 250 seats here, no more. We're the ones who represent millions of voters. Why didn't she answer about the case? On the other hand, in one entirely different show in the context of the fight against tycoon, Miskovic, Beka and other mobsters who made this so-called. An advanced party, we see how advanced it is along with Montgomery and other villains and enemies of the Serbian people, please, why did she not report for the fact that the Administrative Committee has not implemented the blanco resignations, which are the mandates of the Serbian radicals, or because we daily appeal that the Hague tribunal has held our president there for eight years? There's no indication when the process can be completed and they want to kill him. I must tell you that this is a disgrace and a disgrace to the state of Serbia, regardless of all our political differences, regardless of how both Boris Tadic and the government in Serbia have a service to both the Western powers towards NATO and the EU, but if it is the position and life of a man and a citizen. Serbia knows and Serbian citizens know that this is not just a man, but the president of our party, Dr Vojislav Seselj, who predicted all these events as a dissident and when he appeared on the Serbian political scene. It is a shame that such state institutions as are allegedly independent authorities are not advertised and do nothing to prevent his further abuse in the Hague case. That's why the lady knew very well she was working for herself. Before the decision to educate her professional service came, she addressed Nenada Konstantinovic on June 22nd this year. Can she receive, she asked, as you call it, Necu, the difference between a functioning salary at the place of the trustee and the salary of a professor at the Faculty of Law? She did resign as dean of the Faculty of Law, but remained a professor of five cases - environmental law, child rights, civil-processing law, legal work studies and clinical-legal education. She got the answer. When we resign to return the mandates that these are instrumentalized by the CIA, six of them, and who knows who, and these Serbian tycoons, kidnapped by Serbian radicals and the SRS list – Dr Vojislav Seselj, then it is not valid. The constitution, Article 102(2), is not respected by the electoral will of Serbian citizens, and when the Commissioner asks that he has the opportunity to take the money for himself, he can. Please, then what is this equality and where is justice in the first place? After all, all the people who follow this debate see, the citizens of Serbia, I end up talking to them again that your rights and that you are being discriminated everywhere and in every place, because you do not have a job, because you are poor, because the government does not see you because the ossion and boast is in its behaviour and does not listen to the voice of the people and does not want to help the huge structures of the endangered, that only Serbian radicals speak about it today in the Serbian Assembly, this November 11th.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46377	Eighteen minutes and 50 seconds the time of the parliamentary group was used. National MP Predrag Mijatovic has been reported. You want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46378	I would not like to enter any controversy, however, I call for a member of the 107th violation of the dignity of the National Assembly and of the MPs and I wonder why you have not broken up and when you will, as long as you allow certain MPs to insult the SNS parliamentary group, that we have been tycoonically formed, that we have received a certain amount of money, etc. Yes, I agree that they have their own opinions, etc., but it is unargumented, nothing proven and never proven and I appeal to you that in this case we, the MPs and the MPs of the SNS, have been injured. I'd like to ask you to vote on it in the day of the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46379	The National Assembly will declare its objection to Article 107 in the voting day. My argument is that intervention for the national MP Natasa Jovanovic's appearance of a warning or ban would mean the same thing for all other parliamentary groups. She conceived her speech in line with the agenda, with examples she considered necessary under the Rules of Procedure, just as much as any other MP who spoke about any other parliamentary group. If she had crossed the line of respect by the Rules of Procedure, she would have been warned, but she didn't. In any case, the National Assembly will declare itself in voting day. National MP Natasa Jovanovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46380	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Of course you didn't even have the grounds to warn me because there is a lead on this in the reports of certain national authorities and on our direct question at the Committee on Defence and Security sessions. Namely, it does not know, who is the Quasi-Embasseur here, that the BIA has responded to us, to the MPs, yes and to the knowledge, only said that they do not know the character and nature of the encounters, but also that they have knowledge of the meetings of Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandr Vukic with a criminal who is on the red Interpol pursuit of Serbia Stanko Subotic Canet Zappec in October 2007, at the famous Paris hotel "Ric". They did not receive a certain amount there, as he said, it was not determined how many, they did not report to you, Mr. Mijatovic, five million euros, they may not have given you anything. It's possible you don't even know how much money that is, but that's a lot. Not only does BIA know about it, but even a well-known Serbian journalist has taken off like that, and perhaps not, so he said – well, I saw them there, nice company, drinking "cristal" champagne, eating specialties at the Hotel "Ric", and at the table Nikolic, Vucic, Milo Djukanovic and Stanko Saturdayic Cane Zhabac. And what more do I have to prove? Besides, if you don't trust me, ask the manager of the Ric Hotel, the receptionist, I don't know who else to direct you to, if you don't need a report from the state authorities of Serbia... (President: Two minutes. )......................................................................................................... And I believe that you may not be aware of that, but you will be, what are they, in fact, thieves and how dirty money they are for the betrayal of Vojislav Seselj and the ideals of the SRS? Which, after all, you never believed, you abused for your own personal purposes. [[President: National MPs, replica time used.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46381	National MP Predrag Mijatovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46382	This kind of accusation, Miss Natasha Jovanovic, does she know what five million is, is irrelevant for us to talk about it. Whether Vucic and Tomislav Nikolic met with the Frog or not or what they talked about, perhaps even the weather, it is unknown to me. You allow insults to continue. Also, with all due respect to the former party president I belonged to, he was in a pool with Spasojevic, so nothing, played chess with Spasojevic. That's how they talked to the Frog. No one's quite white, no one's quite black. Gentlemen, I respect your president very much, and that's why I resigned, because he didn't discuss his medical condition with you. What you're saying now, this is just a political pamphlet, nothing else. I respect him, not you who falsely respect him.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46383	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46384	Mrs. Comic, I'm going to have to go with praise when it comes to this agenda and unifying this debate. This is a really good example that two points can be united, because they really make up one logical continent, not just because the call to the same law, but because this decision to set up a service and this systemization rule really makes one continent. Of course, that's where I finished my commendation. I assume you understand. Anything I'd further say is commendable, I'd have to lie to myself, because I don't believe there's anything good about this. It's for the public, just to give some general knowledge. This Decision and this Regulation, in practice, regulates the organisation of the work of the Trustee for Equality and will have four organisational works, a total of 60 employees. That's how it's planned, so everyone who thinks they're replicating this document, not me. When you look at this document, you see clean self-management. Socialism was characterized by the saying, "I don't give my own, I don't give someone else's résumé, it's socialism," and for self-government, it was a characteristic saying, "One works, and three people look at it and keep it company". If we take this statistic you wrote, not yours, but the trustee's, then we have a situation with numbers like this: 25 of them are going to work according to the law, 35 are going to help them, and about seven to nine million is going to think about how to play this law. Approximately, it can be interpreted this way. So a pensioner comes to 1.1, to two employees in the economy comes to one employed in the state service, administration, para-state authorities. In order for you to really come out of this situation and in order for this law of banning discrimination to come to life, you have to kind of level these numbers. I would suggest that three and a half million people think about how to control those three and a half million people who break. Or, to go into the world again, in this pro-European way, we now have a situation that everything that is formed as an independent, as a para-state institution by its own organization, is mirrored by the ministry. Here's what it looks like with the trustee. In the creditors, he says: there is a sector for handling complaints and the sector has two departments, and then we have a sector to improve protection and equality, international co-operation and projects, imagine. We also have two departments in that sector. General Affairs Sector, now the situation is even better. In this sector of general affairs, we have the Department of Staff Affairs, the Financial and Material Affairs Group, the office department with archives and IT groups. And there's no end, and there's a cabinet of trustees. So, something is going to be done, organized to fill, it's going to have its own internal structure, it's going to look like an institution, the ones watching you are going to say, yes, it's done, and what's going to be in practice? Before I start talking about practice, I have to draw the public's attention that in the last 20 years we've come into one situation to chase down the terms and everything can be swept away by some term. So they became kind of synonyms for the same thing: democracy, human rights, protection of citizens, institutions, the fight against discrimination, NGOs. Be careful, we have had special institutions, NGOs funded by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and international organisations that have different tasks. Last night, you had an example that an NGO got money for some project that young unemployed women would go to older women to learn how to bond, how to knit, because it should be the export brand of the Republic of Serbia, and these poor women who have 40 years to knit can't even sell their braid at the market anymore. You remember that great revolutionist of yours from Kragujevac, Buce Kovacevic, who, in his name and family's name, had 60 NGOs registered. They applied abroad for some money, approved projects, and everything in Serbia is black. Unfortunately, we've come to so much gray that it's really a miracle. Let's see how the state behaves. These when they made this government, here I read the document, Mrs. Comic, this reconciliation, what those of yours wrote on page 4. The title "Political Life, a Modern-Organized State". It is said this way: "We will develop mechanisms for parliamentary, legal and civil control of public administration, including especially institutions of the type of ombudusman." First of all, it's not ombdusman, it's the patron of the citizens. And what does the public defender say, did you hear him yesterday? A disaster, more attacked by Sasa Jankovic than anyone on this side here has ever said. You know, when a man has a mountaineering license he deals with hiking, when he has a walking license, he deals with hiking, when he doesn't have an unauthorized climb. We've got it here all the time, unauthorized climbing, but what do we do, surgery, intervention? How are these laws passed? These laws are passed by the system – better than nothing. And there's something else, it's said - we have to start from something. So we had to start with something, so we started with that trustee who's fighting for free access to information. What's Shabic going to tell you that I'm not telling you, that I'm not sticking my finger in a living wound? Then you imagined the patron of the citizens. I said that everything a public defender does, that's what a trustee does. It doesn't make any principleal difference. But you're making institutions. While you're building institutions, I have to remind you that when it comes out here in Nikola Pasic Square, and it's headed towards these canvass that were cut up, there's a place next to Telekom, there used to be a NB, and now there's the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, there's a performance with music every day. Same group of cops, and they're just changing groups of civilians with whistles looking for something, and I don't know what they're looking for, I'm just surprised. What are they doing there? They're looking for a salary, they're looking for jobs, they're rebelling against bankruptcy, they're rebelling against thieving privatisation. I get the impression that these people are choosing. They're looking for a scone over the breadcrumbs. They don't watch Diaries at all. Please, you all have to watch "The Diaries" at 7:30. All of you who blow whistles, bangs, etc. And you say in the end: I want to live. This government can't hear you, our reality is in Dnevnik. It's not our reality when you wake up in the morning, it's public, it's something else. This is this life. So fountains, facades, but there's no man anywhere. International standards, never in Serbia's history have there been more institutions that care about human rights and that human rights have been violated. They don't exist. So that I don't lose the basic thread of these two proposals that are on the agenda, here I am, Mrs. Comic, because I'm communicating with the citizens, even if they were from some Little Wet Lug, as you say from DS, I'm going to be seeing them today, I'm going to talk about these books. I invited Mrs Kalanovic to tell her about Euro-Atlantic integration, waiting for the people of Little Wet Lug to finish what we promised the citizens. Here, I've brought concrete examples, what citizens keep sending me, I have quite a lot, and I'm going to ask you to turn this over to the trustee later, because obviously this could be the starting point for these sectors, especially this first sector that works on complaints. The first one is the National Radio. It's not registered, and via Telecom, it charges music service. If someone else who wasn't registered wanted to make a deal with Telecom, they wouldn't have given it, and this radio got criminal charges from both the RRA and that other radio frequency institution. Then we come to the question – who made it possible? You know, if someone in 1992 in the village of Resnik sold smuggled cigarettes from CG and his sister plastic bags, they formed themselves as businessmen in an illegal market. When you give these people Telecom or finance in the city of Belgrade, then nothing surprises you what's going on in our lives. Another example, this is an example of discrimination on a political basis. As to the low-baining and threats of some of the Nish officials to the city council officials, I will not deliberately mention names so as not to get into a difficult situation to punish me, so that if the Administrative Board were to show humanity with my money, it would be a shame and a shame. The next form of discrimination where the lady must be involved is an example of Sobovica-Kragujevac's social enterprise. Please, no more obvious, it's number two. Number 3, an example of discrimination, the conclusion of the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Comic. I talked about this a few months ago. I see yesterday some of them made a mess of it. It's about stars, hospitals, privatisations, and the rights of people who work, so we don't go into small intestines. This is a common example from Nis where my wife tells me about genocide. It's a missing date. It's a Mile cop, all kinds of stuff. There's an urgent need for someone to get involved here, because it's a man's life. Furthermore, this was written by one of the Democrats. Mrs. Komic, this was written to me by a DSS member about discrimination in your party. She's not an insider thing. I don't mix internal affairs, just so you know. I have this dose of correctness. As far as I'm concerned, I've opened up inside a Parliament club and a bookie who's going to be vice president. I'm like Hope Kolundji. There's a big quota at Hope Kolundji's. I count, if you choose her, you disappear, because wherever she was a member of the party, that party is gone. Furthermore, this is an example from the Cup. If a man is admitted, he's assigned to work in some places of health care, and then the director beat him somewhere in some village and won't bring him back. The next example - Security Agency, Verano, as it was, secluded, I know that something was rude, people here are armed, working, not working, no contributions are paid. Last night I was met by a man who works in other security, he says, "Well, that's a rule." They're tens of thousands of people who work in security, and they don't know what their status is. They're not in a working relationship, they're not paying for contributions, they're getting some poor 16-17 thousand dinar church, and sometimes they're in conflict with criminals, when they're coming at them. Mrs. Komic, this is about you helping me with something special. This is about something that's going on in the workplace. This is the doctor from the Sremski Karlovci. I'd only read you one sentence, I'm a great gentleman and I'm a correct man, I don't speak names. What's up with a judge to judge? How does a judge defend himself from pressure? I don't want to die at 41, that's what the judge in the courtroom says, in front of the lawyers and in front of the parties and in front of the staff she's working on, because she's been assigned to be sick that day, not to solve the case, and she's been in the next office, where she's been hiding. When they saw it - well, what you're delaying, this colleague of yours, here's a sentence, of course, I'm not going to talk any further about these items and concrete things, because the situation can be far more difficult, far worse. Maybe I'm getting a lot of complaints from other citizens. I'm dealing with some other things right now, which are much more interesting. Mrs. Komic, I can't figure out if you're sure these people are going to be employed in this trustee service and who will be deployed in accordance with this systemization rule? I have no doubt you'll vote for it. Are you sure they'll be consistent human rights fighters? I'm telling you I don't have that security, I can't even believe they'll be identified for it. Can you imagine what would be a planetary disaster for the government of the Republic of Serbia to move here to work, say, Marko Karadzic? It's theoretically possible. What if he goes over there to work? Do you know how much he knows about human rights? Like Marica in silk, literally speaking, but the political resemblance and other things can do theirs and he can cross over. Furthermore, have you noticed how much there is in this sector for international co-operation? Have you noticed that in this basic sector, where human rights should be directly protected, in the complaint sector, they wrote in the sector standards and recommendations of the UN, the Council of Europe, and in this second sector for improving, protecting equality, international co-operation and projects there is no such thing? What's up? What can this sector learn when it goes abroad? Here you go, Mrs. Comic, a concrete example. Let's just say, if these experts of ours were to go to France and talk to Mr. Sarkozy, do you know what he would teach them? He would teach them that a European single passport does not exist, that as far as France is concerned, they look at passports issued in Romania and Bulgaria, and especially do not like when Roma come to work to feed, so they make cardboard settlements. That's got to be thrown out. What standard should we have here, what Mr. Sarkozy said or the Decade of Roma or this struggle for their language, equal use? Do you want them to spoil us here, make us discriminate? Here, I'd forbid them to go to France at Sarkozy. Or, to take another example, Germany, you well know, Mrs. Komic, Germany was the creator of a convention on cross-border languages, etc. What did we hear from Mrs. Merkel a few days ago? As a political project in Germany called "Babar Housewife" was promoted at the beginning of this year, it means "Pirocan" in translation, to make people understand it, they think it is necessary to save them from some crisis. What did she say to her young party, Mrs. Merkel? That it's totally unacceptable for someone to live in Germany for 40 years and not learn German, not speak German. If someone in Serbia said that, do you know how many planes would be over Serbia? You wouldn't see the clouds, let alone the sun. What else does she say? They just come to Germany to use our social aid, well, it can't do that anymore. Do you know how many of them are in Germany? Between 13 and 16 million. Please, we had people on KIM who long ago didn't want to talk or communicate, they were building their own parallel institutions, and that Germany supported it. What can we learn from them, from these Germans, when it comes to human rights? You keep your mouth shut. November 9th, Fascism Day, is that right, Mrs. Komic, in memory of Crystal Night, Fascists, etc., what does Germany do? The day before that opens an exhibition of Nazi symbols. What do we learn from them, explain to me? What happened yesterday? One television -- drop B 92, caero nide, pro-fascist organization Obraz, did someone intervene to tell these people to make it easy to give qualifications for something? If I were to say that the pro-fascist organization was Resistance, you'd look at me like hell, and they'd find themselves right away who I called. Now that they're found, I must say, Mrs. Comic, you know this man. It's Mr. Malešević, you know him. Look what he wrote. He's been running some proceedings to discuss that crime in the Resistance. He says, a meeting of the cross headquarters where the division took place was held the same night at William Cohen, when William Cohen, through CNN, told – Serbia needs to break its spine. Over CNN Resistance has been assigned. What happened? He chaired as usual Srda Popovic. He's now a civil servant, a student, etc. Listen up. Srdja Popovic at the time had the habit of saying that minors should be sent to provoke the police because the beaten minors win for us in the media war. Mrs. Comic, I'm reading, do you understand me? It says here for a certain John Ratkovic. I have here for this businessman, Free Homen. It's all written. This is nothing Krasic made up, so we understand each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46385	People's MP, I'm just asking you to put everything you didn't invent in touch with the agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46386	That's what I'm waiting for, to ask me a question.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46387	I'm not asking you questions. I'm warning you, you're required to talk about the agenda. I listen to you very carefully, and I have not interrupted you, no matter what you have personally led me astray, since you are speaking in favor of the agenda point that you will not vote for, but that is no reason to disturb the MP who is exhibiting. Now you're very far away from the agenda, so please connect.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46388	Mrs. Comic, it's not quite certain I won't vote for this. If you can convince me, based on this argument, that all of this will be removed, maybe we'll piss and vote. You know, I'm a passionate human rights fighter, especially for the rights of the Serb people, you know that. You see, this is all to read. This is what strangers wrote, Mrs. Comic, not me. Now you're saying what's the connection? This was promoted to us as human rights fighters, and here they are by the definition of human rights fighters. In each of these sectors, in each of these departments, professional people who can recognize it, and I don't see them, I don't even see them in my choice to get into these jobs. I would be extremely pleased if you said that with these remarks that you would remove them all, we might vote, and you know how glad I would be if at least the trustee raised his voice and said stop the killing of Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46389	24 minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and he gets his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46390	So, here is a harshly injured Rules of Procedure because the head of the ZES Parliament Club, Mrs Nada Kolundžija and DS, is rudely offended by the claim that the DS will fail after some elections if Mrs Nada Kolundžija is elected to be unaccounted for in DS, according to Mr Krasic. Mr Krasic, I must remind you that Mrs Nada Kolundzija has been a member of the DS since 2004, and that since the moment she joined the DS, the only person who has failed on the political scene of Serbia is your party. You've fallen apart in parampers. Census, don't cross. A moment ago, citizens had the opportunity to see how you were speaking to each other with your chosen words, former radicals, former radicals, advances, see who was hanging out with frogs, who was with tadpoles, who was crackling, who was drinking in Hilton, who was drinking in Hilton, who was swimming in pools. Praise yourselves, Mr. Krasic, for yourselves. I understand your complex for the Resistance, but speaking of the Resistance, I must warn you of one thing, be careful and keep an eye on how you speak of my godmothers. Mr. Konstantinovic and Mr. Homen are my godmothers. Perhaps you, within the SRS, are counting your axes, we are keeping our friendships and godmothers within the DS, so I ask you to keep an eye on how you speak of my godmothers. You can take this any way you want, but take it seriously. When you talk about the Resistance and the children who were beaten up in the Resistance, tell the mothers of Serbia that you were the minister who ordered the beating of those children. Say, I sat in that government and ordered special forces and paid out of my pocket, the money I stole as a minister, printing books, kidnapping workers, and giving money to the Batinians to beat up the people of the Resistance. That's what court proceedings are about. Do you want me to read? It's no problem, Mr. Krassic, but you'll be uncomfortable, so you'll be out of the O.R. Therefore, when you talk about the Resistance, tell the mothers of Serbia -- I am the Zoran Krasic, who said all this should be killed, they are fascists and proud of what I said. That's your opinion, that's your position, that's your picture and opportunity, Zoran Krasic, a former minister who can't regret being no longer a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46391	There is no violation of the Rules of Procedure by listening carefully to MP Zoran Krasic. The intervention was made when it really got away from the topic, in breach of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which imply that the MP is holding the topics of the agenda as mandatory and as a reason that, if he does not stick, he will be warned and warned or punished. I don't think we've been able to break the Rules of Procedure. National MP Zoran Krasic has a word, a right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46392	Something to correct on this relationship, since you didn't understand me. I don't do samples. I have no affinity towards the Resistance. I am collecting documentation on the Resistance, but I am not collecting documentation across the street, but I am visiting American sites, where intelligence services are reporting that Slobodan Milosevic has been removed from power. Tadic's cabinet head is in secret services. This is not what Zoran Krasic wrote. Furthermore, Tadic is easy to advise, Americans. Who runs Serbia's president? Americans. Mrs. Comic, I'm a victim of someone else's ignorance. Someone doesn't know something, and then it's my fault they don't know. Don't do that, please. I'm giving you the paperwork. All the president's people, the man behind the back, have the New York Times, can translate you, have a lot of published, how they're funded, where, how, why they've been transferred to RTS by some journalists, why they run programs, how they run programs. I told you, I can't break the book, I've got paperwork coming. I call upon all citizens what they have about the Resistance and their actions to deliver to me, to finally complete this book, so, Mrs. Komic, this is a classic replica, to just discuss some circumstances. Otherwise, the specimen is a specimen.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46393	Right on the line, MP Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46394	Mr. Krasic, I'd like to ask you to do your own business. The citizens of Serbia know very well who you are, and they have translated their knowledge of you as their electoral will, as a result of the elections and have assessed the work of you and your parties. I can read about you serials running your party, running your party. The same book you are referring to on the fifth page says that the occupation of Kosovo by the NATO Pact enabled the then government in which the minister was Zoran Krasic. Is there any need to talk about Mr. Zoran Krasic's moral character and work now? There is no need to defend myself against what Serbian citizens know very well, who is who in Serbia's political scene. Your morale is best spoken of in the way you speak to your comrades this morning. You just, Serbian citizens, had a chance to see this, but for those forgetful, above all for Mr Zoran Krasic on Radio Belgrade, there is a fantastic show called "Mozaik of Time". It is broadcast every Saturday from 10.00 hours and is aimed at combating chicken memory. Please, Mr. Krassic, listen to that show every Saturday. She's not just being listened to by pensioners, it's being listened to by all the citizens of this country. There's your brilliant statements, there's your genius statements, and that's all you need to collect. That's all you need to get together then, when you stand in front of a mirror to shave, you need to have the strength and courage to look at yourself in reflection and say, "Here, I, the moral gromad of the country of Serbia, Zoran Krasic, the man who raised the fallen planet, I stand proudly in front of this mirror and I say -- these are my words, these are my works, this is my political biography, I'm a proud man. When you do, Mr. Krasic, then sign up to write a book about the Resistance.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46395	National MP Zoran Krasic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46396	Mrs. Comic, there's only one thing I can do to make things right. Last time I shaved was 30 years ago. Mrs. Komic, I have to distract you. It's hard to change something that's generally known. What's generally known, it's not proven, it's just being determined, it's accepting. There's nothing further to talk about. And at the beginning of today's presentation, I said -- I read what you wrote, not yours specifically, Mrs. Komic, but your dossos, your praises, the shadow game, and Bujosevic and a little bit of it came out and said what was going on, how was it, what happened in the meantime, where this country went, etc. I have no intention of talking about myself in this replica, to be clear. As I talked about many things during this debate today, trying not to mention any name, specifically, about the documentation I provided you, but Mrs. Comic, there is a big movement in Serbia – how to protect the pride, dignity and elemental things of this people. I'm part of that movement. I can't make peace with the fact that someone's ruining my country. In all possible ways, allowed of course, I raise my voice – why? To awaken people, their conscience, to make us as many as we want to send a message – we want to live in Serbia. The EU allows living in Serbia. The NATO Pact does not allow living in Serbia. NATO's pact is easier today. The invasion of the NATO Pact today costs only what they gave for kerosene. Why? They've installed their people and they're doing the dirty work. However, from time to time someone recognizes himself and jumps. Thank you, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46397	We'll continue the hearing after the reports. The People's Parliament of the Faith of Radeta wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46398	Yes, I want to talk about the injury of article 27. Rules of Procedure and, as part of the explanation of the injury, to ask you, Mrs Komic – when Article 107 was amended in the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure, at the meeting of the National Assembly, are not allowed directly to address the People's Messenger to another MP, etc? Since it happened here earlier, I am convinced that you, as someone who cares about the application of the Rules of Procedure, will admit that you violated the Rules of Procedure because you allowed it, and that you will give yourself a reminder of what it means and a fine of 7,500 dinars, as you do every time you, and I claim unfounded, make one of the MPs of the SRS break the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46399	Of course no member of 107 has been broken, and you must be more careful to follow what the MPs say. In direct address with careful listening, a distinction can be made whether the MP is insulting, false, or useful in his rhetorical design of the speech of someone’s last name or name. With insight into the stenogram, you will see that MP Zoran Krasic, who addressed me personally by his last name, did not at any time violate the provision of Article 107(2). If he had, he would have been warned, reminded first, then punished. Since it is not, and since it is quite obvious when the MP, in his personal address of insults, behaves inadmissiblely or uses a dictionary that is not allowed, and when the use of someone's name is simply the work of rhetorical skills, then, as so far, that member is mentioned only in the event of an obvious violation, which was not the case in today's session. Do you want to make a statement? You want to talk again about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46400	First, I want the Assembly to plead according to this previous injury, which I claim to be an injury, and now I would like to draw attention to the most grave violation of article 107. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and that you have hurt the most deeply the dignity of the National Assembly. Mrs. Comic, I am not a fool and you must not treat the MP that way. So it is very clear that by looking at the stenogram, Mrs. Komic, you can determine in which way colleague Srdjan Milivojevic violates the Rules of Procedure and in which way he...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46401	People's MPs, the other MP cannot violate the Rules of Procedure, only the chairman. I ask you to imitate your expression in the National Assembly and the terms you use whether you use them for yourself or for others. They're inadmissible. Do you want this breach of the Rules of Procedure to be declared in the day of the vote? People's MPs, you're not interrupting, you're violating the rules of the Rules of Procedure. In the event that a MP who wishes to speak of a breach of the Rules of Procedure violates one of the provisions of Article 103, chairing him then warns him that he is misappropriating the right, and then warns that this is a direct obligation written in article 103 for his sentence and then tries to spare the assembly of unpleasant decisions, such as sentence, which I did. Would you like to make a statement to the Assembly? No, I don't. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46402	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hope Mrs Nevena Petrusic followed, that is, to monitor the work of this Parliament and that she will finally really do her job, including discrimination against the MPs in parliament. I remind you that at the end of March when you adopted, and when we talked about the Law on Prohibition of Discrimination, at the end of March 2009, we drew attention to the fact that you were only passing this law for one single reason and on October 10th of this year you showed, you from the congregation majority, in the Boris Tadic regime, that we were right when we warned Serbian citizens about why the law was passed. When you elected Ms. Neven Petrusic as trustee for equality in May 2010, then Mr. Bosko Ristić was an authorised representative like today, with him not being present today when we talk about this point of the agenda, and that by chance applying the Rules of Procedure we could not talk about it, because two days ago we haven't worked all day because there were no representatives of the Government, and yet he is also a representative of the promoter like Bosko Ristic today, however, you don't care about the application of the Rules of Procedure. So, I remind you that Bosko Ristic was then, May 5, 2010. For years here, he claimed that Mrs Nevena Petrusic would behave in accordance with the Law on Prohibition of Discrimination and that she would not be in conflict of interest, and she is today. The law says that one who is a trustee of equality cannot do other jobs and receive a salary for it. Ms. Nevena Petrusic is still a professor at some university in Nis. Maybe for that reason he can't do the work he's supposed to do under this law. Perhaps that is why the lady, who is the trustee of equality, is not responding to the appeals of the SRS and the MPs of the SRS, for two months and more than two months we have been trying to appeal to the authorities to stop the killing of Dr Vojislav Seselj in The Hague tribunal. She did not react even when more than 7,000 citizens gathered in the large Sava Centre hall, where our Russian friends and experts also urged to stop the killing of Vojislav Seselj in The Hague. Perhaps the day after tomorrow he will react when he sees that tomorrow morning at 1700 hours in a large hall of SPENS in Novi Sad, there will be as many thousands of citizens seeking to stop the killing of Vojislav Seselj in The Hague. This is one of Mrs Petrusic's important tasks. It must protect, at least to try to protect the fundamental human rights of every Serbian citizen, not selectively where she likes it and where it is in the interest of the DS. It would be good if Mrs Petrusic had met with the way Serbian citizens in The Hague are treated and 17 Serbs were killed directly or indirectly there. That it may be a reason and motive for her to declare her position on whether Ratko Mladic should surrender to The Hague tribunal, or whether someone should take from the country 10m euros, which, if normal, would have directed the state to help the citizens of the Kings that hit the earthquake, or lead to an example of Tomislav Nikolic who clearly and loudly says that he would have handed Ratko Mladic to The Hague tribunal. So, let Ms. Nevena Petrusic finally start doing her job. We're not sure he'll work it even when he picks out all these deputies, assistants, chief cabinets, etc. We are sure otherwise, we are sure that Mrs Petrusic will also be in her office, in her office, to accommodate some of the Democratic Party's staff, or parties of the regime, and that the citizens of Serbia will only have one more force on the villa.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46403	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word and before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask – do they want the word of the president, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? National MP Borislav Pelevic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46404	Dear citizens of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a few false things have been said here about Serbian Progressive Party President Tomislav Nikolic. I appeal to Article 103 because Mr Nikolic is the president of a parliamentary group in this House. His insult also hurt the dignity of the congregation itself. Since he is not there, unfortunately, the situation is often used on such occasions to speak false of him. What's said today is truly false. By imputing him, Mr Nikolic never told him, and that is a fact. Indeed, out of respect for the party president, whose representatives speak of his former leader this way, I can say, in the last six years, to Mr Nikolic, I will not say anything ugly about either the party or the leader, given that he is in a truly inexplicable situation. I mean, it's not right to talk about someone who's really not here and who can't answer the question. Wait till tomorrow, gentlemen, so when he's here, then talk about it. Otherwise, Mr Nikolic is in the King, where he is trying to help those who are threatened by an earthquake in any way. I also want to say something else that is really important to this congregation and to safeguard the dignity of this home. I think we must keep in mind that every MP has his dignity and that we must safeguard each other's dignity. If we behave like this in the congregation, the people will punish us. Some people have been punished in all past elections in the last two years, so in many elections these same people could not cross the censorship, and the Serbian Progressive Party really won in half of the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46405	The MP, member 103, can't be hurt after you've spoken. In all its views, Article 103 defines the right of the MPs to receive the word to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please, if we are to fight for the right to indicate a breach of proceedings or any member of the Rules of Procedure, we should read the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you. Whether one of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups wants the word, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) In this case, I conclude a joint single search on the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Regulation on the internal organisation and systematization of jobs in the Professional Service of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision on the Education and Labour of the Professional Service of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Having conducted a joint single search, the National Assembly will, in the voting day, decide on the motions for decisions. Before I set a break, and on the basis of Articles 90, Section 2 and Article 87, I am informing the National Assembly that we will be working today even after 1800 hours, and that the afternoon session will begin at 15.00 hours, by searching the details of the laws that follow according to the agenda points. [[After break – 15:00]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing to work in the afternoon session. Notification of the invitations to the session. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Mrs Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, for a search in the details of the 1st item of the agenda of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act, in addition to the representatives of the promoter Tomica Milosavljevic, the Minister of Health, has also called for the meeting to be attended by Zorica Pavlovic, the assistant health minister. Before we move to work, I remind Members of the People's Parliament that representatives of 1st and 2nd points have been authorised; MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, MP, MP, Zoran Bortic, MP of the SPS – JS; MP Milan Dimitrijevic, MP of the DSS – Vojislav Kostunica; MP Milet Poscurica, MP of the Parliament Group Advanced Serbia; MP Simo Vukovic, MP of the G17 plus and MP of Paja Momčov, MP of the SRS. I also remind the parliamentary groups that they can at any time inform that they are electing another authorised representative, and if not, then authorised representatives who have been set up with the information to represent the parliamentary group during the joint principle search are also a parliamentary group during the particulars search. Just to remind you, given that the provisions of the new Rules of Procedure are in force, which apply to the search in particular. Therefore, the search in particular takes place in the members to whom the amendments have been tabled and on amendments proposing the introduction of new provisions, with the total time for the search in particular for parliamentary groups being the same as the total time for the principled examination of the draft law. If the time of the search in particular is deployed on parliamentary groups, presidents, authorised representatives for the overall search have an additional 15 minutes, each applicant of the amendment shall have the right to explain its amendment for up to two minutes, with the total duration of the search in particular on this basis cannot be longer than 10 hours. If the amendment is submitted by several MPs from the same parliamentary group, then it is considered to be the same amendment that has submitted several Members of Parliament together and the provision already read the position of the 5th member is applied. What is the paper, the legislator, or the authorised representative of the legislator, has the right to speak of each amendment for up to two minutes, with the total duration of the search in particular on this basis cannot be longer than three hours. This is a newspaper to be applied on the basis of article 158 during this session. When it is established that there are no more requests for participation in the search or that time has been used, then the search in particular is concluded. First item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic, Zlata Đerić, Aleksandra Ilic, Srdjan Spasojević, Prof. Dr. Mileta Poscurica, Prof. Dr. Milan Knezević, Dr. Predrag Mijatović, Dušanka Pljević, Vjerica Radeta and Paja Momčov. You have received a report from the Committee on Health and Family and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. I welcome the Minister right now when I wanted to inform the National Assembly that we have information that the debate in particular will run according to the rules of our Rules of Procedure, because Minister Tomica Milosavljevic informed the National Assembly that as soon as the National Assembly session is finished, we have all the conditions for the work prescribed by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic and together by MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46407	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have proposed that Article 1. The bill is deleted. This Article 1. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law refers to Article 199. The health care law. I want to say that we have put up with this amendment because this organised supplemental work will not contribute to the establishment of a sustainable health care system and that is why we have proposed that it be deleted. Article 199 regulates the compulsory work of healthcare professionals, health associates, as well as other persons employed in health institutions and private practice outside regular working hours until one-third of full-time. Before the Health Protection Act was adopted in 2005, there was no legal provision that would prohibit doctors from working at the same time in both state and private practice. However, the law has adopted new rules that have banned work in both practices. Many doctors rebelled, so at the end of 2008, a rule on the way, procedure, and conditions for further work was introduced. It was the first step in preserving the state monopoly in health care. The previous law has made anti-constitutional discrimination between doctors, but this bill also makes doctors discriminated, humiliated and damaged. We believe that in Serbia, doctors, health workers, health associates, as well as the entire staff working in health care are humiliated by small salaries that are not so small and miserable anywhere in the world. Doctors and all medical staff perform daily extremely difficult, responsible and stressful work for which they are not adequately paid. To solve this problem, since you can't pay your doctors as much as they really deserve, you are now introducing additional work. We believe that the introduction of additional work has nothing to do with the government's argument. Additional work not only creates conditions to meet the constantly growing needs of the population in the use of healthcare through the provision of available healthcare, but the existing conflict of interest and fundamentally violates the right of the patient to justice and accessibility. As long as the doctors don't decide on state or private practice, there will be no order in health care. This will happen when you provide adequate wages for healthcare professionals, healthcare professionals, and other medical staff who will be able to live, support their families, and they will not have to work in night clinics. Do you think it's in the patient's interest for one doctor to work at least 11 hours a day? I say, at least 11 hours, because we have doctors who are at the same time and teachers at medical, dental and defectological college, so it means they've been working longer than 11 hours. In whose interest is it that we have completely exhausted, tired and deconcentrated doctors? Where's the patient here? Who's protecting the patient today? On the other hand, this member of the law has not been regulated and there is a shortage in the context of not having to request the approval of the director of the institution for additional work. This creates even more chaos in health care. How can a health care facility work, when neither our director knows where or when his healthcare workers work, and where they are? So patients will continue to walk from the counter to the counter, to waste time and already lost health until they get a health care service, which according to the law and according to the Constitution suits and belongs to them. The additional work has not solved a single question, which is that the patient has the right to see how his money is spent for health insurance. By law, the patient twice pays the same favor. These members of the law are discriminated against by patients because those who have money will skip waiting lists, and those who do not have can reconcile with fate. The three main objectives of the World Health Organization's 21st century policy are: a longer and healthier life for all people, the availability of adequate and quality health care to all residents and equality in health between countries and within countries. The achievement of these goals can be achieved by a health policy that needs to ensure acceptance and implementation of universal principles - health for all. In the context of these objectives, I would like to ask you, Mr Minister, as a member of the Government – what do the Government and the state of Serbia do specifically to protect the fundamental human rights of Professor Vojislav Seselj? I mean primarily the right to live, according to Article 24. Serbia's Constitution and Article 21. The Constitution on the prohibition of discrimination. For a long time, we have been pointing to inadequate diagnostics and treatment in The Hague tribunal, which raises reasonable suspicions of expertise, then, the right to patient information, based on point 4. European Declaration on the Promotion of Patients' Rights, brought to Amsterdam on 28 March 1994 and the World Association's position on patients' information rights since October 2009. These documents are precisely at nine points and specifically explained how the right to inform patients is exercised. The new moment we have today is that after the operation, which was carried out on 28 October 2010, the subjective state did not change with Dr Vojislav Seselj, and they possess the basic essential information that the previous two documents guarantee. We know it's not your responsibility to talk about this, but members of the 10th and 14th. Universal declarations of human rights speak of a public trial within a reasonable period of time and you are also not interested, but I think you should be interested in the institution of this system, what are Mr. Vojislav Seselj's rights to information, the availability of information and health. Why, gentlemen, are you not interested in his basic right at stake in The Hague? That's why I want you to answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46408	Six minutes and 20 seconds have been used by the MP's group. The word has a message from Zlata Đeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46409	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, have submitted the amendment to the same text as the SRS parliamentary group, that is, counterpart Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic. By the way, we asked for the proposed member to be deleted and we believe that what the colleague read was just sufficiently justified to accept one such amendment. I will read the explanation why the amendment was rejected and the co-worker, so the minister called, or the government called for the same arguments by refusing our amendment. It is said this way - the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the proposed amendment of Article 199 is accepted. The Health Protection Act is now enabling all healthcare professionals, healthcare professionals, as well as other healthcare professionals to carry out supplementary work with both their employer and other employers under the same conditions. The proposed changes removed the problem seen in the former application of the organisation of supplementary work in health institutions and private practice. What's for sure is that this is a nice new form of health corruption, which will certainly feel very quickly through the quality of work and services. Regardless, Mr. Minister, as much as you've been trying to explain these proposals to deny, I think this is going to be just as bad and to harm, we are that opinion, the citizens of Serbia, or those who have to use health services, those whose need for such services is really the most important. I think it was said here and mentioned earlier that a doctor who works early in one institution, so in the afternoon receives patients in another term, of course, now that they pay for it, we ask ourselves – which patients will be better and safer to deal with? Do those who come in on that official date or those who come in and pay the favor afterwards? Is this not actually going to cause orientation, which has been a practice so far, of patients in private parallel health care flows? So we really thought that in health care, the way it is and the way it is, this kind of service delivery, I'll say it's not good. That's when, and now I'm gonna say it again, I said one thesis. What if, for example, traffic police officers, who use all the country's portfolios, for example, a week or a week after workday, get to regulate traffic safety and charge fines, or to make extra profits in that way. And they're underpaid, doing a hard job, and why don't we have that kind of service. I think the minister of police might consider stimulating his people in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46410	One minute and 25 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic. The word is Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46411	With this amendment, I have proposed to delete Article 2 because it is unnecessary. In Article 2 of you, among other things, you say that Article 200 is changed and it is possible to conclude the supplementary work contract, and you further state – for providing health services that are not covered by compulsory health insurance, and for providing compulsory health insurance services for which there is no other way to provide medical services for persons who do not have the capacity of the insured person. The existing health care system is heavily burdened with an inadequately resolved way of financing. There is still health insurance and service in charge of its implementation. The current constitutional definition of health insurance in laws has not been consistently implemented. The State shall decide on the rights and the means. The insurance service is reduced to financial services, distribution, centralisation of funds and certain types of administration. This condition is unsustainable. The establishment of health care rights must take into account the opportunities of society to cover financially the exercise of guaranteed rights. In order to bring society’s rights and material opportunities into line and to ensure health care on the principle of social justice, a basic health care package has been introduced in many countries, providing all citizens with a certain amount of health care under the same conditions. In addition to rights, the basic package quantitatively determines measures to improve health and disease prevention, as well as other types of active health care. The new health insurance law did not accept the basic health care package as a minimum of rights, measures and services guaranteed to all under equal conditions. He denied some right to health care and introduced participation due to insufficient selectivity and participation that affects the poor population and the elderly most. So we ask you, when will the citizens of Serbia get one, or define a package of compulsory health insurance services? In that regard, what means of contributions paid to health insurance The organisation of compulsory health insurance can realistically and must provide compulsory insurance to citizens? At that time, it would be known what services are truly covered by paid contributions, which are not and which citizens must pay out of their pocket. Most Serbian citizens pay contributions to health insurance to the organisation of compulsory health insurance and should have the right to know more about it. As early as 2001, at public meetings and public debates, the question of defining a package of basic services was current. After almost 10 years, we don't have that package of basic services. It is often that a citizen who pays compulsory health insurance usually cannot exercise that right, because it exists only on paper, so a citizen is forced to ask for this service in private practice and to pay it again. We still have a rigid legal framework that prescribes that the choice of doctors can only be made within the framework of state health, while private health care, even after 10 years of existence and possession of capacities and resources, does not participate equally in the treatment of Serbian citizens. We believe that the bill will not be effective unless the Health Insurance Act is changed previously, so we have proposed that this article be deleted. The impression is that no serious steps are taken towards equating opportunities for a Serbian citizen to choose where and how to be treated. There is no serious dialogue between patients and authorities for the time being, not only to improve the system, but also to the fact that the patient is not at the centre of the health system, which is why there is a huge dissatisfaction with the users of health services. Serbia singles out almost 11% of GDP for health costs and is at the top in Europe. But we're at the bottom of a lot of other health indicators. That is why we believe that serious and professional reforms of the collapsed health system are absolutely necessary, because otherwise what is happening today will be happening, and that is that we are getting less and less every day. We're born less, and we die more. Every year, one city of 33,000 people disappears. The Health Committee and the family of the Serbian Parliament have repeatedly pointed to one of the most difficult problems in domestic health – the inability of domestic patients with malignant diseases to reach the necessary treatments in time, but without results. In recent days, information has been placed in the media that the Institute of Kamenica, as well as the Ministry of Health, has a good export job. Export domestic patients to Turkey. Domestic cardiosurgery patients are going to Turkey for treatment. Some cardio surgeons said this was unnecessary and it was a great shame. The rest of you will be quiet. In the past 10 years, the Ministry of Health has dealt with everything and everything, from painting to administration in health care, but it doesn't deal with human beings. Doctors and patients are being exhausted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46412	Five minutes and 20 seconds of MP time were used. The word is from Ambassador Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46413	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Presidency, if I may, I would like to use the 15 minutes I have at my disposal as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. We've had a public debate about these two legal acts that are in front of us today. As you know, in the principle debate, the MPs of the SRS said they couldn't vote for either of these two acts. We tried in the principle debate to explain why we can't do it. Unfortunately, though, in the discussion that followed, and in the debate, there were some things that further complicated the whole situation about the clarification, about these very important legal acts. Namely, what happened? We were told that without the arguments we spoke and that we were not prepared to propose the reasoned facts that we would show that we think we should do Serbia's health system. As much as that is not true, with careful monitoring of what we have been saying in the SRS parliamentary group, there remains one bitter and unpleasant taste that is further caused by the comments of Mr. Minister, Professor Tomica Milosavljevic. He literally said, unfortunately, in most criticism, regardless of what I've been trying to do all these years, to think deeply about what I hear in the National Assembly, I find out what it is constructive when I listen to some MPs and what it is a grain of salt that changes the system for the better. I have to say, unfortunately, in some discussions, I haven't been able to do it in all these years. I am sorry that in a large number of discussions, a number of MPs were very destructive, perverse and negative. It is the opinion of an individual who can be respected, who again says, "In that sense must always come from facts." We would very much like those of us who are marked destructive, to point to the facts of our destruction. It's said, aside from impressions and judgment, if someone here today in this building says, a long-lost system, a wrong system, a broken system, unresolved system issues, then I can only think that he's strayed into some time machine and actually thinks of a whole other time. When SRS MPs today, meaning we're not using a time machine, we're aware of today's situation, we think we're standing firmly on this country's soil of Serbia, pointing to a number of problems, which are the nation's greatest biological threat due to reduced fertility that is in mild decline and due to excessive overall mortality caused by chronic, non-infectious diseases, cardio-vascular in the first place and cancer epidemic, when we have cases of Kraba one and two, when top executives of Belgrade's health care institutions are still in prison because of suspicion of corruption, when we have a situation where we're throwing expensive paid flu vaccines, and at the same time "Torlak" eight years later, we call them, democratic changes, unable to deliver our vaccine, which we've been vaccinated and vaccinated, you can say freely, the whole undeveloped world. And we know of the two paid studies "Eurohelta" and "Crown Agency", which, though, bear the mark – confidential, where, in 2002, in 2003, the state should find a way to invest 12m euros and to "Torak" be more than it used to be. When on state television, on Monday we watch the show of what we saw, and last night the disastrous facts about the deaths of Serbian citizens, who did not welcome the waiting lists to be irradiated. How would you characterize that system? When you read daily statements from your colleagues who are very alarming, so Mr. Police Minister Dacic says at the Serbian Economic Summit this way – from September 2008 to September 2010, police discovered 18 criminal groups with 309 members and wrote reports against them for abuse in public procurement, during the award of state investment funds in the area of banking business and abuse in the lease of city building land. He says this - this year and two out of 20% more corruption cases than last year. Of that, five times as many cases of health corruption have been discovered. When you read the World Health Organization's report on the quality of health care and treatment in the world, it is said that the French are treated without insurance, and the best systems, compared to ten of them, and it says, "Serbia has nowhere to go". Why is Serbia not on WHO list in 2010 when we talk about systems? We're being chased here as an argument by some World Bank find, bankers who estimate that we have a good health system. A general mortality rate of 14 per thousand speaks far more than one report from a banker. The number of people who do not welcome air therapy, measured by hundreds, and at the same time there are waiting lists that can be skipped and the treatment of citizens of another country across the line for far larger material resources, best depict the situation we have. I warned the members of the Health and Family Committee when they voted for such cosmetic amendments to the Health Protection Act, which in some of its provisions absolutely generates conflict of interest and corruption, since you are declaringly seeking to go to Europe, be careful to behave in accordance with some of the standards of that Europe. I'm saying everything in the paper, everything in the document. On the website of some European anti-corruption and health fraud network, which is tabled in Brussels, I don't know which organisation, you have news, and says: Serbian NGOs warn of an increased risk of health corruption and state these laws for which you, dear colleagues, will raise your hand. This is Europe, it's not the SRS, this isn't Dr. Momchilov, this isn't one man's bad temper and animosity to another man. These are the invoices of institutions that you blindly believe in and you want to believe. When you go on EU websites, you can see the lady with key problems, which Europe is discussing, and you also have Serbian healthcare corruption. It's this article, and I'm not going to read it, there's no need. They always tell me I'm making up, I'm lying, I'm not telling the truth, I'm manipulating. I'm holding these papers here, and I'd honestly like to be denied if that wasn't true. As for unfortunate Article 2, to touch him too, we said in a principle debate that we would not agree to cosmetics, that we were changing something in the interest of a group of doctors who were dragonically damaged and to the harm of the citizens of Serbia. You, for God's sake, have now returned things to the previous situation, so you have expanded the diapason of people who will be able to be hired in the supplemental work. You have well written a supplemental work contract, in this Article 200, it can be concluded to provide health services that are not covered by compulsory health insurance in terms of content, volume and standards, or health services which are not implemented in a manner and procedure prescribed for the exercise of the right of compulsory health insurance. Then how will primary health care doctors be able to work? They're not specialists, they can only do what is the size and content of primary health care, and you forbid it. We asked you nicely to explain and you don't give an explanation, and then you tell us -- well, we're low-incentive people, we're raising some personal hatred; no, we're trying, the MPs of the SRS, that within our human powers, we're modest people's interests, and here we have this idea and justice. What I want to tell you is to simplify this story about this cosmetics that brings nothing to the citizens of Serbia, except for the consolidation and legalization of conflicts of interest, in simple words to say, because I am a doctor, so you are the majority of doctors here, that we do not need additional work for doctors, we do not need citizens of Serbia. We want normal working hours, let's make it eight hours, ten hours, and we'll wear out our physical, mental abilities for the benefit of our patients, and for the benefit of our own personal pleasure. The hyperproduction of the doctor we have can also provide shift work, if necessary, and then go to the elimination of the waiting list. What most doctors don't all say is, truly, they want to be completely exhausted by their work, in regular working hours, and to spend the rest of their time (President: Time). I do. I asked to use it for 15 minutes, if you don't mind. Now we've spent 15 minutes, but we still have time. What we're trying to say is, we're social beings. In our spare time, we want to perfect ourselves for the benefit of our patients, we want to maintain family relations, that our children don't wander the streets and ask the society for a stressful function that we perform and duties, to be paid politely, of course, as much as this society can offer at this moment. That's what doctors want. The doctors won't run like crazy, from the infirmary to the infirmary, from town to town. Not all doctors are driven by greed. Sometime, it's possible by necessity, and most doctors want this. Europe today has a major labour problem. You know it better than I do, a lack of labour and people running away from medicine. That's familiar. Health services today and those involved in health policy are thinking about how to keep people from studying medicine and working in medicine. That's what you need to be aware of. How will Europe do that? It will enable normal, human working conditions, facilitate them with other mechanisms, which is also effective, by paying. Under the conditions of the crisis of a certain EU country, which you are so keenly seeking, increases the isolation for health care, to keep healthcare workers in the system, but reality is reality and all countries have a problem, running away, largely, when you are looking at the end point, in America and in developed countries, and within countries you have a more fled from underdeveloped areas to developed countries. This system you've inaugurated and you want to solidify these cosmetic measures of yours doesn't drink water. These clinics of yours, it's clear, if the doctor works in the morning as a civil servant, and in the afternoon for bigger money, as a "privileged," it's a conflict of interest, and, he didn't want to, a man will refer patients to those evening clinics. What did the citizen get? Nothing, just that he has to pay again for what he's already singled out. She told you a colleague and a package of strict, health care, which every citizen will get on equal terms, you have not clearly defined and there is one big problem. We have a chamber under your law. I care about the mental, mental and physical well-being of the profession. She had a heart attack to ensure additional work. It's such a chamber. In Belgrade, however, 6% of doctors voted for such a chamber. What does that mean? Isn't that kind of a crash system? I'll stop here. It would be nice to have some answers, not ultimately to give us a lesson, but if you have valid arguments, cross them with MPs, but arguments, not qualifications and not time machine what happened. X times we are told here – you received what you received in the election. What did we get? Eighty MPs of the SRS were in these benches, and you who say, I have received the trust of the people, how much has your party won? That's what I'm asking you. Is there a problem with my exposure? Okay. Transferring all that you have for previous times and regimes, bring each other in line. There you are. You rule together. Bring us sweetly for old times' sakes and blames, and along with the grouse of people who decided in that system to rule together. What was your morale? What are you demonstrations? So, if it hadn't been for what was said in the morning, a foreign factor that was deeply involved in Serbia's political scene, and we heard from Mr Krasic, by which methods, all described, written by Western authors, would have been a completely different story today in Serbia. I'll stop here. Madam Chairman, I'm breaking up now, and you're wasting your time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46414	The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Gorana Paunović Milosavljevic. . I'm sorry, Mr. Secretary first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46415	For the sake of the truth, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Madam President, the Presidency, health services provided by the means of compulsory health insurance are defined in one law called the Health Insurance Act, in Article 45, and those services which are not provided in compulsory health insurance are defined in Article 61 of that Act and those two members of the Health Insurance Act, together with a series of sublegal acts which define and contain health insurance rights, a list of medicines, a rehabilitation rule, aids. This is what is sometimes called a health care package in this discussion and it is our turn to make it clear to the citizens that it is simply not true when someone claims that it is not defined what a person has the right to health insurance. Complementary work is not an obligation, it is an option. If one sees such an argument, as is sometimes heard in today’s presentations, he thinks quite the opposite, and I respect that someone has a different opinion, of course, of course. We're people to have a different opinion. Imagine what a horror it would be if we all thought exactly the same thing? These are obviously different views of health policy, but citizens do not forget that some of today's debaters were sitting right in that government that ordered on September 16, 2000 that the doctor had to decide that he would only work in state or private practice. It was a practice that was an in vivo experiment that was bad. It was the time of the greatest humiliation of the medical profession that was largely caused, of course, by a series of objective reasons, but also by the upside-down health policy. And then here, from reading the papers, it was quoted by way of that. Today, of course, the freedom of the press can be published, without covering, to comment on everything and everything, so that this analysis by the World Health Organization, mentioned, is not said to have been done in 2000 for countries backwards between 1995 and 2000. Of course, there was no data analysis for Serbia at the time but data for Yugoslavia, but the entire ranking after 2000 was never repeated because the World Health Organization gave up such a way of ranking the system. The facts also say that Serbia's health system, despite everything that can be seen as an impression, is now realizing that from 1997 to 2007, total mortality from heart and blood vessels disease has been reduced by 13.8%, and death from acute heart attack in coronary units has been halved, that, of course, we are not at the top of quality in Europe, as we are not in many ways. We're falling into countries of the middle incidence of malignant diseases that are still growing. We are doing everything, including today and beyond, thanks to you, from today we have a law on the ground throughout the country that protects residents from the harmful effects of tobacco smoke. We'll have those effects, too, I'm sure. When patients and treatment are mentioned, then in that time, which is not mentioned specifically, when some of today's debaters were tailoring health policy, only six thousand people were aired annually. There's 12,000 radiation today. (President: Time. ) I'm sorry, Serbia in Davos, in February of this year, ranked the highest 46th precisely thanks to the health system. Corruption is a pain in the ass. Health care isn't exclusive. We're all fighting her together.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46416	I hurt the Rules of Procedure. In this part of the session, the minister can speak for the longest two minutes. It's not Mr. Minister's fault, I was wrong. I thank my fellow MPs for reminding me. The word is Mrs Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46417	This amendment requires the removal of Article 3 of the proposal for this law. Article 3 is in direct contact with Article 201. The health care law. In addition, Article 201 proposed that the supplemental work contract should be concluded in writing and contained that the provisions of Article 201 are prescribed for employers who organise supplementary work to provide the patient with all the necessary information on the way and procedure of providing health services and on the health care provided to the healthcare institution or private practice is required to issue an account in the prescribed form. We have proposed this amendment to delete Article 3 because this matter is certainly not the place in this bill. This is about an anti-constitutional solution, the opposite of the Labour Act. Many doctors disagree with this bill because they consider it possible to legalise conflicts of interest in state health, then usurp state resources through evening clinics, illegally charging false extra-standard services, then skipping the waiting list for money, etc. This has also led to unacceptable health discrimination against poor citizens, and on the other hand to dissipation in health care. As a result, insurance companies pay more than 300m euros annually from a pocket for state health services already financed through compulsory contributions and taxes. This is also financially unsustainable. The financing of healthcare rests on compulsory health insurance, whose model has been taken over from communism and is mixed with the free market, free choice of insurance and competition of insurance companies. Voluntary health insurance is mentioned in part. This loses the sense of maintaining the state monopoly in the quasi-pularism insurance system, while sticking to the state monopoly. If the state sector cannot afford existing capacity and personnel to enable citizens to receive adequate health care, because that was also the reason to propose these changes and additions, why not include the private sector to remove this deficit under the same conditions under which it is handled in the state sector? There is no answer to this question in this bill, but it is clear that this is how conflicts of interest are legalised. These changes and additions only impose higher treatment costs that further distance them from access to health services. Unfortunately, in Serbia, the demographic image is devastating. The mortality rate is higher than the birth rate and this relationship is 14:9.4 per thousand inhabitants, which is more than in some undeveloped countries of the world. At that rate, in addition to socio-economic conditions, the functioning of the health care service will also be overcome. That's a big truth. Everyone knows that the unemployment rate is increasing daily and that population standards are getting lower and smaller. According to surveys on population consumption, only 4% of health care stands out for health care, which is a minimum of the modest income of Serbian citizens anyway. What does this tell us? Certainly not that the population is covered by full free health care, but that in Serbia a large number of people do not go to the doctor because there is no money for treatment. Besides, it's also in the White Paper and it's written by the Council of Foreign Investors of the World Bank. In the report, they say 45% of Serbian citizens do not have money to treat. In addition, there is a discrepancy between the allocation of health care financing from the gross social product and the state of health, which I spoke about under the previous amendment, but I will also look back on this problem in this amendment. There are different data on health care expenditure. So the Republic Health Services says it's 6%, the Health Minister says it's 8.2%, the National Health Account 9.6%, and the World Bank 10.5%. There is a difference between the smallest and the largest 1.5 billion euros and where each percent means money, i.e. 300m euros say Serbia does not actually have a national health account. We believe that the health and well-being of citizens is the ultimate goal of developing a democratic society. The quality of people's lives is the main criterion of well-being. Health is the most important component of quality of life. Health and socio-economic development are mutually conditional. It is the obligation of the state to regulate the right to health care and to ensure conditions for those rights to be exercised under equal conditions for all citizens. Is there a government of will and capacity to prevent interference of advisory assistance in the treatment of Professor Vojislav Seselj? These are questions that we refer to elementary human solidarity and humanity. If you have no sense of it, the only thing left for us is to speak the truth about The Hague tribunal and the state of health of Vojislav Seselj in this way and in direct contact with Serbian citizens. At a big rally in Novi Sad, Spence, tomorrow at 17.00 p.m., we will be forced to discuss human rights violations of Serbian citizens (President: counterparts, just stick to the topic. ) here is the end, to which the state of Serbia does not react. That is why I call upon all citizens and appeal once again stop the killing of Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46418	MP Zoran Krasic, by amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46419	Mrs. Djukić Dejanović, as proof I am sticking to the subject, I have also taken the bill and amendments, and the Government's opinion that I am firmly sticking to what is written and allow me (President: Mr. Krasic, you have the right to literally understand everything, and I fully understand that, but I ask you to take care of the dignity of the Assembly. Here you go. I am here, as always, the last line of defense for parliamentaryism. Mrs. Djukić Dejanović, of course I am sticking primarily to the amendment to Article 3. I would ask you to watch what it says in Article 3. It's a bill of law. There are some things written here that in practice and absolutely cannot live. Please, let me just use a few terms. The payment of earnings to a healthcare professional shall, at the latest, be made within 30 days of the date of delivery of health care, i.e. now or, from the date of transfer of funds from the organisation of compulsory health insurance or from the insurance company. Is there anything like this that can be filled in by a health care facility? If it can meet a health care facility, then every firm in the Republic of Serbia in private, state-run, socio-restructured property is obliged to earn and pay all profits within the legal deadlines. If this is the government's position, I support it, but I ask that this standard be applied to all who are employed in the Republic of Serbia. If this norm were to apply, then there would be little or no performance in front of the cabinet of a minister. Why did I say this? Because the paper puts up with everything. I must commend Mr. Secretary. The first thing I have to say is that he resisted being a minister of health for so many years. It's not easy. It's not easy to be a minister for so long, and at some point, you make a cut and you turn around and you see a desolation behind you. There needs great courage, loyalty, etc. It's rare for someone in several terms to be the minister of one area. I am telling you that I sincerely advocate that it does not take four years for justice, home affairs, education and health care, but it takes a lot, much longer, given that the needs for these areas to be solved are large and some areas to solve are difficult work. Someone can't handle it in two years. Mr. Minister, I also support you for that attitude that you don't need to read the papers. I'm so glad I heard from you, I don't read the paper. Here's 20 and I've been doing politics for years, I haven't allowed myself to read the paper, drunk columnists to give me a political opinion on something, I won't let myself, journalists, as Petar Jojic says, singers etc. I won't let that happen. Today's paper is like a tarabba. If anything suits you, you take the chalk and write it down. If someone gives money and orders, anything can happen. As you can see, Mr. Milosavljevic, we from Rakovica support each other, you know. We have such attitudes about it. Now, I must, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, defend you. Two thousand years was not a government decision, but you yourself were then a director and a professor, etc. Now, if Mr. Milosavljevic has something real against you from the SPS, he should turn 180 degrees and say everything, not 90 degrees to the right, so to Mr. Paja Momchilov. It's not right. Because I'm still making a difference between G17 plus and some others. Some others have been putting up with the Serbian Radical Party since 1989, and we never existed. The second thing, very important, is that you take care when criticising the Serbian Radical Party and the views of the Serbian Radical Party. This is why -- the Serbian Radical Party is the only political organisation that has introduced major innovations into political, economic, economic and other areas of life in the Republic of Serbia. We do not call on the views of some organisations, however, they are referring to our views. If you look at the Serbian Radical Party programme and the concept of state pension, it's something the World Bank published five pillars of insurance a few months ago, a zero pillar of social pension. We are the first party to enter the concept of an investment fund, to live as a concept in the Republic of Serbia, and someone else came to power, took some concept, we said what we think of this concept, where it was wrong and the practice showed that it was wrong. We are the first party to develop the concept of voluntary pension and disability insurance. Everyone challenged it, later accepted it. We also have objections to this concept that is now in practice. We are the first party to talk about value added tax, so we have even translated all European laws that regulate the area. We were agents to promote as much as possible the bar at the register, the fiscal register and not to order further. We were pioneers in an intellectual sense compared to the political toad that was in Serbia. You can attack the media, but later you come to exactly those positions, the programming positions of the Serbian Radical Party. Now, Mr. Milosavlevich, you won't mind me speaking to you personally, I have no intention of insulting anyone, but I want to be harshly critical. Why? The whole health system, it's not just us, it's just a standard, it's essentially a few of its main pillars. There's this professional section that needs to be far from the state administration. There's that material-financial one, through an institution that deals with compulsory insurance, that collects funds and distributes funds. And there's a third -- it's a state administration that needs to mix up as little as possible, because one and the other pillars do entrusted state affairs. In the process of decentralisation, of deetatization, and now I see a new concept appears, probably being promoted by these deconcentrated ones, so they say deconcentration. There's been a reverse process with us. With those two pillars that need to be quite self-controllable and controlled, they have taken over and moved slowly to the administration, to the Ministry of Health. It's a bad process. I'm one of the few people in this country who's really in principle fighting it. Local self-government must not ask questions about health care, my people. Why? The state guarantees health care on every inch of the Republic of Serbia. The same rights, the same opportunities, must have each and every one at the top of Mount Tara and the one in downtown Belgrade. The right, the possibilities. We are coming into this situation that the best pro-European law since last year, changing even better pro-European space interfaces this year. Our citizens need to understand that this is a trap of law, a trap of change. Why? And if you're up for these changes and supplements, you're wrong. And if you're against these changes and additions, you're wrong, because someone might be able to interpret that you're for that solution that exists already in the law, and you're not. It's just that we're in this situation, whatever you say, you're wrong. At a time when radicals ruled with 90% of the MPs present, there was a saying about Nikola Pasic. One came and told him something, he says you're right. Well, then come each other and talk the opposite, he says you're right. And the third listens to it, and says: Bajo, and as for one and the other, when there are different stories; and he says, “You are right.” That's what this situation is all about today. We're all right, but don't let anyone get sick. Don't let anyone get sick because we're getting into some maze that can come out of a million different ways. Of course, we're all sick when it comes to health, when it comes to children, pregnant women, older generations, etc. Under the cloak of these good desires ends all sorts of things. That's why this is a trap. The bench, to be like that commercial -- talk, talk, talk zero dinars in the net. Today we're going around a intersection that has 17-18 roads leading from that intersection and we can't find the right path. Anything we're offered can be a solution. It works 10m euros, some are chasing to find and catch Mladic. Dead race, still boasting. They'd like to catch him. They figure if they catch him, they'll get 10m euros. See what kind of inversion is going on with us? There's a lot going on with us. If you look at the first three members of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act, it is actually only one member from the original text that received some three new variations on the subject – the same or other employers. Nothing more significant has changed here. Is this going to solve our situation? He won't. He absolutely won't solve it. Mr. Milosavljevic, unlike a large number of health ministers before you, you've had a historic opportunity to for so many years, not to mistake the number, is in that place. You had to make sure that there were three pillars, that those three pillars should develop, that they were equally developed. If a tripod, a turtle has one leg that's shorter, then he can't sit down. It's losing stability, it's falling. We now have a situation that at some point one of the legs is shorter, so the Director of the Republic Institute runs away from us to a private health care facility of a private insurance company. For these n.e.c. For years you have changed so many very important officials on these three pillars where health rests and there is no acceptable solution. Believe me, in addition to our best wishes and those fine commendations from the beginning, don't ask us to vote and support this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46420	The word is made by Vice President Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46421	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to take this opportunity and debate on the amendments, as it is about the future functioning of Serbia's health system, to ask you a few concrete questions and ask you to give me an answer in the course and to the end. You know that I am who and the president of the National Assembly of Kragujevac and I never want to perform local-patriot because Serbia and all Serbian countries and every city in Serbia and every local community are equally important to me. I have to ask this question about students and graduate doctors at Kragujevac University, the medical school in Kragujevac. It concerns the quota that the ministry determines, and you correct me if I'm not speaking properly. You won't mind me, because I'm not a doctor. We now have more than 100 doctors on the Bureau, or unemployed in Kragujevac. These are young people, some of them, unfortunately, have been waiting for this first job for years. You know that we have tertiary health care, the Kragujevac Clinical Centre, which was visited several days ago by Mrs. Djukić Dejanovic, and Boris Tadic, who had to take a picture there, experienced a promotion, that is, the project of building a clinical centre in Kragujevac that serves about two million people in Serbia. To be picturesque, the whole of Raška region, the area of Zlatibor, Kruševac, Pomorava, Šumadija etc. I'm particularly interested, Mr. Milosavljevic, as these people ask, and I'm asked to ask you, they can come to that first job. In fact, when they try, and most people say it happens under the grain, how do you see it through some kind of inspection? When it comes to the home of health, you know that we are at the level of our forest district and Kragujevac is the center of it, we have arranged this primary health care and, now it's disputable and we are all competent, regardless of what kind of homes of health, especially in our villages, many have been shut down, etc. We have a problem and now in that vacuum between primary health care and the Kragujevac Clinical Center, something is missing from the town of Kragujevac. What's that? One general hospital. They also know how Dr. Paja Momchilov and your colleague, Mr. Vukovic. Belgrade has several hospitals, right? We as a city, as a city that has now taken over the ministry's decision and by forming a clinical centre obligation to accept so many people. There is Mr. Milenić, president of our town hall. It is one question of the general consensus of us in the city, regardless of what we are the opposition, Mr. Stevanovic, we need a city hospital. A hospital that's going to be something between these two health care systems and what I'm calling for, because that's what doctors are looking for, and, above all, the people who are working on this project. In the end, the town of Kragujevac made a decision and finished all of its work on it, what about medicine, i.e. from the beginning of work of the health institution, which should also accept most of the territory and outside the administrative and forestry district. Therefore, given that last week the dean of the Faculty of Medicine in Kragujevac, Prof. Dr. Nebojsa Arsenijević, signed with the new director of the Clinical Centre of Kragujevac, Mr. Obradovic, a contract of co-operation between the Faculty of Medicine, not to offend these others, but you know that the Faculty of Kragujevac, whose regular professor, Mrs. Djukić Dejanović, has perfect references, not only to us, but also abroad, regardless of what fellow Vukovic laughs, does not know what is funny, but really, if you find it funny that each city deserves the same treatment, at least I think. So, Mr. Minister, this is a big problem because people hit their heads against the wall, which is said to be young people, people who need to start a family, who have finished one of the hardest colleges, it's a medical college and it's very high grades, and they can't get a first job. I think that it is necessary to think about the city hospital that the town of Kragujevac needs already through the project of building new health institutions and how it is in the future, and thus a wide range of our citizens from the surrounding cities who can ask for professional, or health care.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46422	Mr. Simo Vukovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46423	Mr President, I would like to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 106(1). In addition to the tremendous effort that has been made, I cannot link the amendments and additions to the law, or debate in particular with the discussions that were in the previous period. So, please, let us stick to the Rules of Procedure and in the context of what we are told to discuss amendments to the said law. On the other hand, here in a number of discussions, someone who is uninformed, and Serbian citizens are not uninformed, I believe that they are fully available to other facts, would get the impression that the practical health system in Serbia is not working, and that no one is treating us, which I also have to react to as a doctor, protecting my profession and all healthcare professionals, because simply saying such untrues does not contribute to the profession or to what is being done within the health system. The truth is, I want to point out, because someone does not want to respect it, that only in the period from 2006 to 2010, all 157 homes of health have been reconstructed in this country. I don't know, maybe it doesn't answer to someone. In this country, too, between five and six years of age, nearly 20 hospital institutions have been reconstructed to prepare for the reconstruction of all clinical centres in this country at this time. Should I point out that in this period Serbia gained 38 magnetic resonances, 90 scanners, two positronic tomography shows? Look in the environment, which is what other countries have. It's a shame to say they're not results. We can move within the framework of a correct political struggle, but saying such lies or something that is (President: Time). ) to this extent, it simply puts us in a position to have a complete misunderstanding and we are mulling any debate on the success of health policymaking in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46424	Dear colleague, I could agree with you if I hadn't intervened, but as you can see, when it comes to health care, we're having a hard time sticking to all the issues, including you and me. You've advertised the Rules of Procedure, yet you've spread a little bit in content. Please have a little tolerance for holding a session and you understand me. But if you're not happy with my answer, I suggest that in the voting day we plead. No, I don't. Thank you. Mr. Petar Jojic has a word. There's no replica. You can do it in time. Mr. Petar Jojic, within the time of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46425	Madam President, Mr. Minister, this law proposed before the National Assembly to amend and supplement the Health Protection Act, I must say, so I have understood and well assessed it, that this is not about the adoption of changes and additions in the interests of citizens, this is about the interest of the private practice of doctors, and this opens up a number of opportunities for corruption and crime. What does that mean? Does Serbia have enough doctors? There is. What's this supplemental work for? Now we're going to repack from a state health facility to a private one, so the gigs that work in state hospitals and health institutions will send patients to a private in the afternoon, and the private will be waiting for that particular friend of his who was sent from that clinic or that health care facility. Mr. Minister, there's a lot of corruption here. If I were you, I'd resign because you can't handle gangs, thieves and criminals, and citizens are crying, screaming, suffering, they don't know what to do anymore. I'll remind you, Mr. Minister, of the South Banatian County. I'm asking you, but I'm asking you to give me an answer. I asked one parliamentary question, but I got that answer in which you say - we transferred jurisdiction. It's the AP Vojvodina. Are you the Minister of Health of the Republic of Serbia or are you the Minister of Belgrade's Pashaluk? Therefore, the patients and citizens of South Banat, therefore, of Pančevo municipality, Vršac, White Church, Kovin, Landishte, Alibunar, Kovačica and Opo municipality, are tormented, they no longer know what to do. They're being bullied, scheduled for three or four months. For one recipe, you should wait for a disabled person or a pensioner or a patient for a few days. What the hell is going on, God, are you gonna do something? I call on you, come on, help that Panchev, who is the most endangered city in all of the Republic of Serbia, whose citizens, by the number of inhabitants, and who are the most affected by cancer and the most severe diseases. Second, Mr. Minister, health care in Vojvodina, i.e. in South Banat County and in Pancheva and the surrounding area has collapsed. They don't work, there's no duty in health care. Diabetics go twice a day to take insulin. They're going 15-20 km twice to Panchevo to be provided with a favor from Brestovac or Ivanov. No Saturdays and Sundays at all. People can't take injections, they can't receive the most basic medical services. In Ivanova near Pancheva, from eight to 12 hours worked by a doctor from Belgrade, closed shop and shop, he went and has no one left to provide health care facilities, and 20 kilometers away from Pancheva. Mr. Minister, come to Pancheva. I invite you on behalf of the citizens who even today met me in Pancheva and asked – when will you ask that question? Come, visit the health center. Come, visit the internal ward at the hospital in Pancheva. You'll see for yourself, and send an inspection, if you have the right to cross the Danube, because I remember when the autonomists once defended the investigation when the Turkish ambassador was killed. No one could cross the Danube to conduct an investigation because they did not let those from the AP Vojvodina interfere with the Republic of Serbia. Get involved in your work, provide Serbian citizens with health care, equally prevent corruption and crime, and corruption and crime in health care flourishes. Madam President, you are a respected doctor. On your part, do what you can, and Mr. Minister, please come to Panchevo, make sure I'm not lying, all the Pancians will confirm what I'm saying to you today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46426	Mr. MP, I'd like to remind you that the highest-quality people, the best high school students, are enrolled in medical school and the highest-quality people are engaged in this high-level and human activity. That there is corruption in health care is not controversial and that the relevant authorities are doing their job is also not controversial, but the content you address to both citizens and us MPs tends to ruin the reputation of those who, under difficult conditions, are extremely safe and professionally doing their job. I just want on behalf of the highest-quality people in health care, who have 99%, that's for sure, to say that this is not the right thing to do with doctors who are safe working and who are the most.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46427	Please, replica. I have the right to answer that I didn't refer this to all the doctors. There are honorable doctors, and that's not what they're talking about. Secondly, court practice has been in recent years... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46428	Professor Milet Poscurica submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr Predrag Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46429	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, before I move on to this amendment... . Can I continue, considering something's going on? If I'm out of time, I'd like to ask you to take that away from the MP's time. I don't want to offend Mr. Minister, but I wanted to ask how long will 200,000 Serbian doctors and I don't know how many insurance workers suffer and be held hostage to the self-loving minister of health? Indeed, the self - love of the health minister goes so far that our health system is almost completely destroyed and that health care is in one completely chaotic state. What did we get with this law that the minister has now sent us? We're back to square one. Mr. Minister, this is what you started with in 2008 and you're back to square one. First, it was forbidden to work in private practice at all. Then you said it could be done in private practice, with a contract being made. So then the contract went up to 20% of the working time in the private office, 80% in the state and accordingly to take off the belongings. After that, suddenly people started making contracts at 5%, which was totally ridiculous, and they worked for a few hours. In the meantime, you said no one can work in private, so only teachers can do it, which was discrimination, and it directly coincided with the law prohibiting discrimination. Then you realized that you were wrong, and you said, "I can do others." Now we're back to square one, and this was in early 2008. I'm asking you why this experiment? Why are you experimenting with Serbian health? Why are you experimenting with insurance? Bring once a solid law that can survive for at least a few years. If you are unable and unable to write it yourself, I assume you have the knowledge of several foreign languages, so you translate German, Austrian, translate Swedish, translate some health care law applied to Serbian mentality and give it to us, and do not experiment nonstop. What did you do? I've wanted to show it a long time ago, and I'd like the camera to zoom in. You're our doctors twice, I've been a doctor for 31 years, and I think you spit in our face the first time you told us doctors, wash your hands. That was very ugly on your side. After that, you sent us a comic book. If the camera can make this comic book zoom in. I would like you to zoom in to have Serbian citizens see him, because this wasn't sent to the insurance companies, it was directed to the doctors. What's this about? On one side they are drawn as the health minister sees doctors and nurses, scrawny, angry, dissatisfaction, and frightened patients next to them. On the other hand, the health minister as a teacher tells us – but it is not nice to see you on the left hand side, you should act as I told you, which is on the right hand side of this pamphlet. The name of the pamphlet is otherwise called – health is transmitted with a smile. With this, Mr. Minister, I've studied for so many years, and I've learned this, you've spit in our faces, all the health workers, and it hasn't hit you in any way, as you're experimenting with the Health Protection Act, and I'm not talking about the health care laws that don't interest you. Last time we defended certain amendments, you sent us an incompetent minister and were not present. When we discussed these amendments on the Health Committee, led by Mr. Momchilov, you did not find it appropriate to come and give your opinion, but you sent your associates who have no right, who simply do not interfere with your work. What did the Health Committee look like? He didn't look like anything. There were known to be a number of MPs from the post, and these MPs, of course, refused all amendments that were both meaningful and good. Someone even left the session, believing that such a session was not valid. So I'd ask you to do a little bit more basic medicine, to deal with our relationships, and a little less high-minded science that can't help an ordinary man as much as it can help with his primary health organization. Our primary health care, Minister, is at the worst possible level. It's been asked of us to split up, that the health centers, whose composition were the homes of health, were divided and that local self-government... What someone here said - local self-government had nothing to do with health care, and he was right, because health care should be run by the state of Serbia and the health minister. Now they're in conflict with health centers and hospitals, so secondary health care with primary health care. By asking for it to go to local self-government, you've just made a mess of health care. People can't handle each other anymore. Right, they wait two to three days to get the recipe. They've been waiting on the waiting list for months, etc. What do we get next with that? We'll get people to open up, now they've got the right to open offices to other people's names again, so they're gonna transfer social patients to the private sector. You're relegating. I don't work in private, I'll never work in private, and I'm proud not to work in private. As much as you pay me, I've had enough. I don't want to cheat, lie and steal patients this afternoon, as does a huge percentage of doctors holding private offices. It's a pure hohstaple. Give me 66,000 as specialists, thank you very much, but I don't need anything this afternoon. Now, let me move on to the subject we're talking about today, which are amendments to this proposal of yours. We're based on Article 3 and Mr. Poscurica has given an amendment to Section 1. Here's the thing. Your proposal that you are changing says - the supplemental work contract is concluded in writing and contains the type, manner, duration, height and method of determining the work compensation, payment obligation, determined medical service fees, in accordance with the laws and general laws of the employer. We asked for this to change. And I'll read it to you, don't be bored. I don't know if you read it. It says – the supplemental contract is concluded in writing and contains the type, manner, duration, etc., as well as the obligation to monitor the condition of the patient after the medical service provided to the final outcome of the treatment, the height and manner of determining the fee for the work of the obligor, the payment of the determined medical service provided, in accordance with the laws and general laws of the employer. I read a little faster. What's this about? You refused this amendment with an explanation, only one part I will read, and it says – given the fact that the supplemental work contract is concluded on a limited period of time, i.e. that the employment of a healthcare professional on the basis of supplementary work is carried out by a contract of a certain period of time. I ask you, Pera Petrovic, the doctor will conclude a contract with the state health institution, come and do it, I speak to you plastically because of the citizens of Serbia, not because of you, you know, a certain diagnostic method or surgery. What's gonna happen to that patient later? He will receive, for the procedure, a certain diagnostic method, a certain material compensation. That material compensation will be shared, it'll be one part for him, one part for his associates and one part for the hospital. I ask you, what about complications in such a diagnostic or operational situation? What happens when the contract expires and the health situation is complicated with this patient? Who's gonna take care of him? Again, we, who work in the state service, will tell me. You're under obligation, and I'm exactly on every obligation to keep an eye on you. Is that fair, Minister? That's what I'm asking you. Is that okay? Someone's gonna pick up the Kajmak, take the money, and then those who work in the state service will take care of the private patient who's in the hospital. That's why we asked for this amendment to change and that the obligation, regardless of the contract signed, is valid and whatever the patient is in hospital treatment at the state institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46430	Ambassador Milan Dimitrijevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46431	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DSS issued views on the amendments and addition of the Health Protection Act and on the health system development plan in principle. What we have asked as a basic question, and we have not received an answer from the minister, because it is very rarely present, especially at committee meetings, it seems to me that this question is partly in the reasons for the adoption of amendments to the Health Protection Act. So, what do you say to the reasons for amending this law? The creation of conditions to meet the ever-growing needs of the population in the use of healthcare through the provision of available health care to all citizens in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Minister, we asked you several times if the system is capable of responding to the needs of the healthcare system users? You've answered us that the system is capable. What's the supplemental work for, if the system's capable? What's going on with the private sector? How is he involved in the health system of the Republic of Serbia? Mr. Minister, I must say that public health workers are the only category of public sector officials that are allowed by law to work additionally in the same work. It's a precedent that doesn't exist anywhere in the world anymore. In the principle debate, we analysed the effects of the practice of complementary work so far. Now I'm gonna do it again. Therefore, during the period of adoption of the Law it is observed that there is a decline in the productivity of state institutions in regular working hours and thus patients are provided for the so-called so-called ‘. Your clinic. Artificial waiting lists are being formed in state institutions to send patients to the private sector. Legalization of health discrimination in the public health system for residents who cannot pay for the additional work of state doctors. This opens a conflict of interest and thus undermines the efficiency of the profession and reduces quality standards. The growth of total health consumption is increasing, as the insurance company, in addition to mandatory contributions, pays back the service in the supplemental work and again out of its pocket. Fiscal discipline is decreasing, as insurance companies are not motivated to pay contributions. I'm sorry Mr. Secretary had to come out, obviously he can't listen to this. The conflict of interest in state health is legalised and this leads to the collapse of the basic principles on which our health is rested, which is solidarity. This enables the existence of a false private sector that insists on attracting patients from state institutions. Finally, the rights of patients to available, fair and quality health care are fundamentally violated. So these were the analyses that we presented to Mr. Secretary. But what happens now? These proposals to amend some laws, instead of solving all these problems, lead to the opposite. The possibility of systemic corruption is being opened, thus obtaining the official support of the highest state authorities, i.e. The Ministry of Health. It seems to be becoming the official policy of this government. So, Serbian health care is located on very low branches. Not transparency, one of the basic faults, and transparency is an excellent means of disinfecting such a society and such a government. Serbian health back in a very short period rocked two major affairs, the Krab affair. Not to repeat the words of the minister of police, not to speak of vaccine affairs, which my fellow MPs are substantiating. But conflicts of interest are diverse. In addition to the patient’s relationship – doctor, bribery, transfer of the patient from state to private health institutions, where the doctor has more time to deal with the patient, there is systemic corruption, patient relationship – health care institution, as an example of illegal charging of false health services, as well as extensive systemic corruption, from the purchase of equipment to the mentioned affairs of Kraba, to the use of state resources to treat patients from other countries, while our patients are waiting for the so-called. waiting lists, and I'd call them death lists. This brings this supplemental work and it was legalized by the Ministry of Health at the Institute of Oncology in Kamenica. Instead of solving these problems, they just get complicated and pile up. When a solution is offered to the Ministry and a proposal on how to get out of these problems, when it is said that a new health care law should be passed, a new health insurance law, a patient rights law, then there is autism with the Ministry of Health and the minister, then MPs are called ignorants, then it goes personally. Madam President, you have received this rebuke, too, because in the principle debate some time ago, when all the problems, Mr. Minister, in his final statement, were shown, in a highly unacceptable way, insulting the MPs, mentioning their spouses, whether the directors of the health care institution were now or before, that the MPs had led large health systems and that these systems had left and destroyed them behind. I must remind the Serbian public, I did run a large health system not for three years, but I was expelled when I got up publicly rebelled against corruption, when I said I would not sign false tenders and when my budget, as the city's health secretary, amounted to several tens of thousands of euros, unlike the minister who had billions of euros. That's the point. When spoken publicly, then criticism of MPs comes down to personal motives, because there is no answer to these big questions. I will end with this, and I will use the rest of the time later, as well as the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46432	The People's MP Milan Knezevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46433	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Dimitrijevic only encouraged me to do one thing before I move on to the amendment, which is that we can understand that Serbian health care is an extremely difficult patient and that his chance to treat is just a vaccine against a voluntary minister, i.e. to make an anti-body against him. This amendment, submitted by Dr. Knezevic, and the next one I submitted on behalf of the SNS in a certain way, was touched by Mr. Krasic and gave some explanations, so I wouldn't stay long and talk about both amendments, because this is the next one. It is the way, i.e. the time of payment of employed workers and that the proposal contained in this proposal of the law from the date of transfer of funds from the compulsory health insurance organisation, i.e. from the insurance company cannot be accepted in this half, that it must be brought into line with the law and that it must be brought to bear that the service is paid within 30 days, which in a certain way also says this amendment submitted by Professor Knezevic and the amendment that I have submitted. So I'm surprised the health minister rejected this, or his associates, without consulting with the legal department, and that part is not in line with our positive laws. I don't know what the negative laws are, because it's usually said – with positive laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46434	The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Mijatovic. You've practically already explained your amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46435	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to delete Article 4 of the proposed amendments to the law. The proposed amendment is contrary to the Law on Public Services, the Law on Salary in State Authorities and Public Services and the Law on Civil Servants. State officials are the employees of which is the employer of the Republic of Serbia, in particular, they are employees of state health institutions. In part of this law, Article 26 is told – a civil servant can work for another employer if he does not create the possibility of conflict of interest or does not affect the impartiality of the work of a civil servant. The minister did not in principle convince us that existing changes do not create a possibility of conflict of interest. On the contrary, we believe that this is how conflicts of interest are legalized. The proposed changes take a step backwards from the necessity of health reforming. Instead of real reform, we've had evolutionary attempts at health for 10 years. Here's how it went. At the first evolutionary stage, the minister first asked for doctors to express whether they wanted to work in a state or private facility. Those who decide to spend full-time at a state institution and continue to work in private practice will be fired. I don't know any such case, no individual, no general, and I know countless cases that doctors from the state institutions were working in private offices at the time. With these measures, the minister said at the time, which was a press conference on 6 August 2008, would achieve greater patient safety ahead of politics and would open a place for another 1,000 healthcare workers, doctors, I suppose. He said that these measures do not disrupt competitiveness on the market, encourages the best experts in this area to remain in state institutions, which is one way to eradicate healthcare corruption. In the second, higher degree of evolution, no evaluation, no confusion, no health workers, doctors, will be able to work four hours in a state and four in a private institution. The consequences of this concept were that doctors were sitting on two chairs, that patients were switching from state to private offices, that artificial waiting lists were being created, etc., all to the harm of patients. At that time, there was discrimination against doctors, and only doctors had the privilege of continuing, and private workers were to pay doctors from the state hospitals who engage and contribute for part - time work of the employed physician. The new regulation will regulate the construction of doctors from state institutions, the minister said then, December 2008. And that word finally doesn't mean definitely, had these amendments to the Health Protection Act. Here we are at the final expert stage of the experiment, in the finale of the evolutionary chain of health services that will wrap around the neck and pockets of patients. The supplemental work of doctors and other state health associates, who bring nothing qualitatively into the exercise of the rights of the same, because they will finance from their own pockets of services provided by doctors in the supplemental work. Thus, citizens are given an additional 300m euros for health services, which are paid through compulsory health insurance anyway. These are all causative measures compared to patients' rights. That is why there is no defined package of basic health services, but something called a list of off-standard services, so that it can be manipulated more easily. You justify these changes by creating conditions to meet the ever growing needs of the population in the use of health care, as you stated in the explanation. However, the population has always had the same needs for health care, which is that it has the right to be treated. If the needs are growing now, this means that their illnesses and diseases are on the rise, and the issue of the prevention of these diseases has been raised in the past. One of the reasons you point out in the explanation for the adoption of these amendments is that they provide a reduction in the waiting list, i.e. the time period that has elapsed until the time period of providing adequate health services, but you do not say that this reduction in the waiting list also has its own price paid by the patient. Again, you mention the conditions for creating conditions for employment, etc. I ask – what changed compared to those evolutionary phases, when some other rules were passed, the best, when the supplemental work was called gambling. This is not the first time that the same composition of the ministry changes the Health Protection Act, unable to implement true reforms in the health system is resorting to ad hoc moves, all of which are more illogical, but consistent in denying the right of patients to treat the burden of the funds they pay for compulsory health insurance.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46436	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dusanka Plecevic, who wants to explain the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46437	I suggest that article 5 be deleted. This Article refers to Article 256 paragraph 1 point 25. The Health Protection Act, which speaks of criminal provisions, where it is said that a fine of 200,000 to 1,000 dinars will be fined for the violation of a health care institution that employs a healthcare worker employed in that or another health institution or private practice for working outside of regular working hours, contrary to the provisions of this law which regulate the conclusion of a contract on supplementary work and the proposed amendment reads: "If he engages a healthcare professional, or an associate, and another person employed to carry out additional work, contrary to the provisions of this law". As in the previous amendment, I request that this member be deleted because the proposed changes do not contribute to improving the level of health services of the population. The addition works only to the medical profession, healthcare professionals and associates. However, this time with the correction because it was allowed by someone and others not, but many problems are being opened, from the abuse of state capacities, an increase in the depreciation of resources for work, i.e. State-owned equipment for private purposes, the inability to control the inflows of such earned funds, and to artificially create a waiting list for treatment, which further increases the possibility of corruption. If working in the private direction of state doctors was a source of corruption per minister in 2008, when he asked that doctors working in state institutions have determined whether they will work at a state institution or a private institution and that this definition will eradicate corruption in health, how is it possible that now, two years later, it is not a conflict of interest and it is not a source of corruption? The supplemental work in healthcare is contrary to European regulation and has been abolished in countries in the environment. If the state sector cannot allow citizens adequate health care with existing capacities and personnel, why not include the private sector to remove this deficit under the same conditions under which it is handled in the state? In addition, the amendments to the rules, the director has already spoken of the former, Svetlana Vukajlović, on 6 August 2009, to patients who cannot attend a specialist review within 30 days, for which there is no waiting list, and the doctor writes that the patient cannot be reviewed, allows them to do so in a private or state-run institution in the supplemental work and that their costs are fully refunded within 30 days. Therefore, there is a possibility not to make waiting lists already described or by introducing a second shift without the need to introduce additional work in state health institutions. In this way, double benefits will be achieved, unnecessary waiting lists will disappear and a number of healthcare professionals and co-workers will be hired. This will also make specializations more rational, especially those that are deficiting. The proposed changes, however, only reduce patients' rights, as well as the rights of healthcare professionals in the possibility of specialising in those jobs that are being transferred to supplementary work. These aren't reform moves and they haven't been in the past, except for some attempts at reform that consisted of firing, reducing the number of employees, amending the Health Protection Act, where an increasing number of costs will be taken to the back of patients, and to increasing patients per doctor, etc. For reasons to make these changes, you say that in certain parts of Serbia there is a problem with the lack of expert staff of deficit specialists, but who is responsible? The structure of personnel in the health network is largely inadequate at the level of the entire country, with poor coverage of territorial health care. First of all, I think of the rural population from remote mountain areas that are sometimes the real undertaking to get to the doctors of general practice, dentists or pharmacies because sometimes they have to cross 100 km in one day. These changes will put general practitioners in an unequal position compared to other colleagues because they will not be able to work in extra time, given that they are doing a job that is not on the list outside of standard services. Instead of increasing the productivity of work in state institutions, where appropriate pay is possible in regular working hours, this encourages unfair competition of the state and private sector and introduces the whole system into conflict of interest. Doctors and other medical staff will be exhausted by additional work, which will also reflect the quality of health services. For this reason, we need to withdraw this proposal from the congregation procedure and make a new health care law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46438	The amendment was submitted to the 6th Amendment by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46439	Article 6 refers to Article 259 of the basic law and talks about fines. In Article 6, you suggested that fines for certain infringements should be applied to healthcare professionals and you added healthcare associates. We are convinced that such a change does not contribute in any way to improving the quality of health services and therefore we have suggested that Article 6 be deleted because all these amendments to the law are quite pointless. When speaking on this subject, it is simply impossible to focus solely on an amendment that is on the agenda. All the colleagues who spoke, spoke a little wider than that, and it is understandable that Ms. President's remarks that she intervened with the intention of protecting the medical profession, but of course we in the SRS are aware that the largest number of doctors in Serbia is safe and fair, as we are and how we are aware that the medical profession is an extremely honorable and responsible profession but our health system and what we face every day is being denied us in many things when it comes to certain doctors. Every time we talk about unconscious doctors, we, Serbian radicals, have an association with Professor Jevtic, VMA, who in the most harsh ways possible is the exact opposite of medical ethics when he did not allow his colleague to provide advisory assistance regarding the health of Serbian Radicals President Vojislav Seselj. Every day for more than two months, we appeal to the medical professional public to raise their voice to stop the killing of Seselj in The Hague and, as these honorary doctors have not joined and have not raised their voice, we must do so by political means, and that is why, among other things, that tomorrow at 17.00 hours in Novi Sad, in the Great Chamber of Spence, we will order to those in The Hague, and also to you, gentlemen from the authorities, stop the killing of Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46440	Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46441	It's a good thing the minister is here to hear major objections to changes and additions to the Health Insurance Act. So our main objection to the changes and additions to this health care law is that the amendments to this law allow systemic corruption to receive official support from the highest state authorities. Mr. Minister, I'm going to state what can bring about a change of law like this. First, there is no basic package of health services that you have promised - reasonable doubt that many services will be transferred to evening clinics and that these services will be provided for money. There will be a new leap in the payment of citizens in state institutions and then we will not have a clear picture of what total spending in Serbian health is again. How to determine the fair price of depreciation of the state resource used for private profit? Whose property is this? All those who've been making contributions for years. Who determines the price list of evening clinics or extra-standard services? Article 61. The Health Insurance Act sets out the arbitration board and director, which again opens up the possibility of usurpation of state property. The existence of state clinics automatically denies waiting lists, Mr. Minister. What are the waiting lists in Serbia? In the end, do these evening clinics and extra work prevent the employment of new young people? They're stopping, Mr. Minister. You didn't take care of that. We at this point, who knows what time I'm repeating, and that's heard from a lot of colleagues, we don't know what total spending in Serbia's health is. What's public spending? What is it that flows out of the pockets of the Serbian citizen? Who puts their hand in their pocket and how? I'm going to remind you of one fact, Mr. Minister, a new building of the Republic Health Insurance Institute has been completed some time ago, which costs hundreds of millions of euros, along with so many empty state buildings, and whose money was paid for it? With money from citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the quality of health services is at stake. What is the price of medicines paid from the register of the Republic Health Insurance Institute, and I told you about it, and I will remind the public again that the price formed by taking the average price of medicine in Italy, Slovenia and Croatia. You rightly asked the question, Mr. Minister, and you objected and that the rate of separation per capita in Serbia is among the lowest in Europe. I totally understand that. But when this is why we compare ourselves and why we have the rapper of these three countries, when in Slovenia we have 1,700 euros per capita, in Italy 1,300 and in Croatia more than 1,000, and in Croatia we have not a full 300 euros. Who made that decision? How much of that stuff flows out of the common register.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46442	I just wanted to let you know that you've wasted your time with an authorised representative, but that you have 24 minutes left. We're moving on to that new time. Sign up again so we can measure the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46443	Not a single question we've been asked publicly. It is surprising, Mr. Minister, to ask the question – what is happening to the chambers? What happened to the dental chamber? Is it time for questions whether this chamber exists, whether it works, whether it's within the legal framework? For two and a half years, the Assembly Committee sent letters to both you and the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government and as far as we came – this is the answer to that question. A lot of brave colleagues who publicly dare to talk about corruption in health care are being chicanized, driven out of medical institutions, as is the case with a doctor from the Institute of Oncology in Kamenica, who had to leave and flee the institution. This affair has been going on for months. How did the affair come about? By obtaining the Ministry's approval to do additional work, even though you were aware that he could appease his patients, even though you knew it was a basic form of health care. When someone talks about it, they bring sanctions instead of the one who violates the basic laws to bear sanctions. There are many more questions, Mr. Minister. In the press, the affair "Kraba" continues to spread, that list of brought in doctors, oncologists spread across Nis and Kragujevac, to the Institute in Kamenica. We talked about it all, but unfortunately when it comes to public speaking, there's an NGO called Cesid, and that's the private part that she's investigating public opinion and that she completely dissuades this story. When a question is asked – based on which tender, whether there was another bidder to deal with the topic to investigate public opinion, there is no answer. Mr Minister, what happens to legalisation – Serbia in motion, which is funded by the EU with 150,000 euros, and its promotions are held by disco clubs? You can take a look at the photos. Who are the members of this young organization? Is it possible that one of these members of the civil servant at the Ministry of Health or a clerk? Do we have an answer to that question? Here's the fight again. Problem with the problem. Question to question, and answer out of nowhere. Mr. Minister, October 31st has expired. There are still 600,000 vaccines in Torlak, and we can't deal with it. We gave a million euros. We'll just pay for the transport, per kilogram of destruction, whether in Austria or in another country, and you said we'd give these vaccines to an undeveloped African country. You see, when there's no transparency, when there's no timely notice, then the state suffers, suffers patients and suffers the system and the whole system because of this kind of behavior and inaction, non-resistance of serious problems is being carried out in a very ugly way through our media. It is best, Mr. Minister, that you withdraw this amendment to the Health Protection Act, because it does not solve, it only deepens conflicts. It opens up the possibility of corruption. It would be good to withdraw the health care development plan in Serbia. We've referred you through several amendments to certain failures. We tried to give you the amendments a more complete picture of the development of healthcare in Serbia. You accepted only one amendment relating to the fact that you did not show credit for this development plan at all, the source of capital investment in Serbia's health. You have skipped hundreds of millions of euros that this country has raised on behalf of the renovation of clinical and hospital centres and other hospitals. When we warned you and told you what was going on, then you accepted the amendment. You didn't accept anything else, because you're aware that this development plan is unacceptable, that it's based on the haired data, that it's based on the haired growth of GDP, on false statistics. When it starts from the beginning, when it is presented as accurate information then it is obtained such a document that is inapplicable and essentially worthless.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46444	Mr. Simo Vukovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46445	Dear President, I'm reporting again for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm under the impression that only when we discuss health care is this kind of atmosphere. It's simple, you can talk about whatever comes to mind, and we, above all, as an authorised representative of my group, face a lot of unargumented facts that often reach humiliating qualifications, insults, etc. Please, as a respected speaker of this house, as they say, take care of the conduct of the Rules of Procedure. I have a few facts to mention. One of the speakers here quoted the World Health Organization's report after the minister's intervention in that direction, nothing. We saw that wasn't true. On the other hand, you have a qualification that this is about hohstappling, selling fog, etc. Indeed, in that more marketlike atmosphere, it is difficult to discuss such a serious area. Please make this debate, which for who knows which way of calling the Assembly, repeats itself, that it is directed in one direction, because of those who need to take the health system more seriously in Serbia and have confidence in it. How are we going to build trust in the health system, if we have found here countless times that it practically does not exist and that nothing in the country works. Of the 128 thousand people who are employed in health care, practically nothing is doing, that corruption is in every place. Of course we realize there's a "Krab" action. As I recall, the health minister supported the action. Is the Minister of Health responsible for every doctor who reaches out for a bribe? What logic is that? What kind of logic is that, please? (President: Time. ) Can I please get time from my MP group? (President: Please. What logic is there? In such a system, of course there will be such cases. It is certain that corruption exists in all areas of life. Here it is trying to show that the health system is the one most present here in terms of the problem of corruption. Here is another fact that I notice, when we talk about amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act. I remember the discussion of two years ago when we talked about the controversial members 277 and 199, because three years after the entry into force of this law since its adoption, these provisions were supposed to apply. Most of those MPs who are criticising today have criticised that solution as well. Today these solutions are also criticised. I don't understand what the solution to the doctor's working hours is then? To be perfectly clear, the argument of the Medical Chamber was that it could not, according to today's valid solution to challenge doctors' additional work. They do so according to the Constitution and the Labour Act. Every profession in this country has the right to additional work up to 1/3 working hours. What's the issue now? On the other hand, what solution are you offering? It is mentioned here that in the 1990s it was tried to completely separate both. We know what happened. This previous solution, which meant division of working hours, was attacked. Practically there was such resistance in health institutions that this solution was simply not implemented. Now this, which includes supplemental work and which enables doctors to work for up to 1/3 of their working hours in their or other institutions, is now offered to conclude the contract. There's one regular and legal flow. I think it's extremely unfair both for doctors and for patients right now we're talking about a corrupt trend in terms of amending this law. Why is it impossible in this profession now? What's this all about? For me, it is totally unacceptable to qualify hundreds of thousands of doctors as hohstapplers and fog sellers. I don't think it's worthy of this home, nor is it up to discussion about something about a legal proposal that regulates the field of health care. I thank the presidents for the opportunity to use the time of my parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46446	My colleague, when it comes to health care professionals who in one particular way, I really think should not be used, especially in this high house, say that I am left with nothing but to associate with the Sentinel – "castis omnia honora sant", the clean is all clean. Mr. Paja Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46447	I'm reporting for a replica, if you'll excuse me, since I've been mentioned twice. What I read and you say to no one. I'm reading "Blic" daily. I won't. [[President: To be clear, you did not get the right to a replica. Do you speak within the time frame?]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46448	All right. The 7th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Paja Momcilov and together by MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Paja Momchilov has a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46449	I'm going to use two minutes, because this is an obvious manipulation to spend time on one irrelevant and cosmetic legal changes without talking about a far more important document – a health care plan. It's worthless to talk about this member who was the only one to defend, even in as many ways as possible, conflict of interest. What Mr. Ambassador Simo Vukovic is trying to do is not correct. I accurately quoted the "Blic" list of 24.10, which says – the World Health Organization makes a list of the best health institutions every year, etc. The minister says otherwise. It was supposed to be denied. In organized society, it's being denied. We trust the media. The media is yours. The media isn't radical. You control the media, the same society. The second thing, what you said, will be the impression in public opinion that it cannot be treated here. Of course not when everyone goes abroad for routine surgery. What you want to know about public opinion, go to blogs. Read behind every article that appears in a newspaper with a health problem what citizens say. If that's all right with you, go to the market, walk by yourself and talk to the citizens. You're a young man, though. We who have a certain age, let us not speak in our minds and not be malicious, at least toward our people.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46450	Mr. Simo Vukovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46451	I would like to use the right to reply, since I (President: No, you have the time of the parliamentary group as an authorised representative. ). I'll take it. This is for who knows which time already mentioned a fact related to the treatment, i.e. cardiosurgery operations provided by the Republic Health Insurance Office in a clinic in Turkey. The truth is, since it's very manipulative, I must say the following. In Serbia, may the ministry's representatives and the minister himself correct me, Serbia currently has 54 cardiovascular surgeons. In our country, since reality is what it is, in which he is a cardiosurgeon, with all the duty he performs and the work he is given under the law, he can earn 120 or 130 thousand dinars in one net amount. Maybe I was wrong 10-20. A thousand. On the one hand, you have a great motivation for cardiovascular surgeons to leave our country. The cardiovascular clinic in Dedinj has 19 cardiosurgeons, three of whom have already gone to Kuwait. With much less work, they're much better paid. We can't do this as a state in this system and pay these people. On the other hand, you have the growth of the number of people on the waiting list due to the growth of people's confidence in the health system, which nobody here will admit, because of the improved diagnostics in the field of cardiology and we have the capacities that we have. That is why we have, in order to allow as many people as possible to operate, to conclude a contract with both a private clinic and a clinic in Turkey. You cannot simply clone or multiply 54 existing cardio-vascular surgeons. A cardiosurgeon has been created for decades. It's a more complex job than a military pilot is created. In this direction, please do not diminish the effort to keep as many people on the waiting list as possible, and have a problem in the field of cardiology, or expect a cardiosurgery operation, not to cause people to have one suspicion and mistrust in the health system.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46452	National MP Milan Dimitrijevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46453	I'm not disturbing the public, I'm talking about facts. Serbia's public service asks citizens of Serbia if it should enable citizens to treat themselves with a health book in the context of compulsory health insurance by their choice with a private or state doctor -- to say 88.8%. Serbia's media public service asks the public of Serbia -- corruption is a widespread phenomenon in healthcare 68.7%. The media public service of Serbia is asking citizens, and I quote it. In order to explain this to you, because it is not about any hohstaple, as you call it, because I did not mention that word at all, the amount of earnings from non-standard services in state institutions in 2004 - 1.296,000,000; 2005 – 1.538,000,000; 2006 – 2,346,000,000;2007 – 2,537,000,000. Who do you think paid for it, Mr. Vukovic? That's what I'm talking about. That's what the citizens in their pocket paid for. You have to understand that. You obviously don't get it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46454	Ambassador Predrag Mijatovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46455	Can I get time within the MP's group? Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was encouraged by Mr. Vukovic's statement. Two things I'd like to say. Maybe what I was saying was used in some way, which is that this kind of health care law that we're bringing now, so we're going back to the way we were, gives us the opportunity to legalise corruption. He says – if everyone else is, it is said that I do not address directly, if all other professions are allowed, then doctors should be allowed. It can't be. As a surgeon's creation takes time as well as for the formation of a pilot, so is the medical profession, Mr. Vukovic, something quite specific, because it deals with things that are difficult to correct and things that concern people the most, which is health. Therefore, if you allow this supplemental work, you know that because of the mentality and small wages that we have, that this supplemental work serves as the highest percentage for wealth, i.e. to repair the physical condition of the doctor. Our material status in the state services is poor, however, let each one decide whether to deal with the medicine he lives on in humanity, satisfied with the pay of what we have. I said that a specialist doctor has 66,000 salaries, which is a very small salary, or will work with privates for a thousand, two or three thousand euros, but does not allow patients to transfer to the afternoon, to form night clinics, to allow 30% of their work in the afternoon, which you know is not 30% but 100%, because I do that medicine too, and I know that my colleagues are physically working 30%, and actually work full-time with a privateer. Since we are engaged in this kind of activity, a victim is needed, and this victim is viewed in a material state. Buddy, be happy with what you get in the state service. If you are not satisfied, please go to private service. Let's not allow it, and let's not legalize crime. This is how we legalize crime. That's one thing. Secondly, I gave you my apologies for not being nice, that the minister was responsible. Yes, he's morally responsible. If there are so many crimes in one country and so many doctors have been arrested for crime, in countries with an undefined tradition, the Minister has a moral responsibility to resign, not to freneticly hold a minister's chair for his own narcissism and for his self-loving. Because it means he was unable to control the work of a health institution, a colleague. You know how the controls are. Nothing. The controls are under the influence of the Ministry of Health. Therefore, if the minister is unable to control the work, then he is obliged, I believe, by God's laws or moral laws, to resign, to thank and to continue to do his job successfully, since he was respected as a professor of medical school.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46456	I don't think it would be good for Mr. Milosavljevic to do Mr. Dacic's job, and I think it's a good idea for everyone to work within their own resources. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. Mr. Minister, please, just re-apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46457	In the last four years, 6,291 healthcare workers, as newly admitted jobs, have been employed by 4.126 nurses, 1,863 doctors and 302 non-medical workers. It's from 2006 to 2010. In May this year, after nine years, a collective agreement was signed with representative trade unions in the health system and employment in the health institutions of the sea, under a collective agreement, to be carried out with a competitive procedure published in the National Employment Service. There are no quotas for determination. As a country, we inherited a practice that came from, I guess, the best intention is to expand university education, increase and it's good that it is, but it's not good for thousands of doctors and nurses to wait for work. As you know, I'm sure you know, since most people work in this health care system that we're talking about here today, huge efforts have been made and a significant number of young people have found a job. The additional work that has been regulated by this regulation differs from the category of overtime and is, in fact, the privilege of healthcare professionals. It is defined by this law which is actually a kind of Lex specialise in health care and allows you to pay a healthcare professional for what he will do outside of his regular working hours, to pay him more than it would be, up to a third of the salary he can get through overtime. I'll explain why it's important. It's significant, among other things, and because if you have patients in a cardiosurgery who need to be operated, do everything you can in regular working hours, if the director invites you to do Saturday, instead of walking Adoma, come to operate, he can't expect you to do it as much as possible with compensation that's symbolic. 32/1MO/CG17,40-17,50 This mechanism allows, for example, to be operated on 600 people on Saturdays and Sundays in one year with one unique waiting list. And every year since 2002, I've been standing here and testifying to you, no waiting lists have been increased, they've all been reduced, and some have been completely abolished, as is the case. The waiting list for the pacemaker to be installed. Thousands of people waited only at Serbia's Clinical Centre in Belgrade. Some of the lists we introduced by starting as a ministry of out-of-body insemination on the burden of common money, so we said, first 1,000 out-of-body fertilizations will be paid out of compulsory health insurance, and now there are no more such lists. Those couples who need that favor get it twice to 40 years of life. It is difficult to run a health system and work in it in a country that allocates the least money for health and health care per capita from the Atlantic to the Caucasus at an absolute amount. But it is also a fact that money from $90 in 2001 is increasing about 400 euros per head in 2009-2010. Of course, many MPs here today mentioned information like this and such. We have different databases, we're collecting these data differently. We're such a country, we don't have unique information systems and we have what we have. At least now we have something. Everything is, of course, transparent and everything can be seen. If you add a third to those 6% of the gross national income for health care, because there is always between 25 and 40% of the pocket giving in every country in this world, and in Europe, by all analyses of those who are seriously concerned with system analyses, the isolation for health in this country is comparable in percentage to the modern countries of Europe today. The fact that our base is just over 4,500 euros in gross national income, and someone else has 14,000 euros in gross national income, is the reason why we can expect and always expect better, but we have to make peace that we have what we have. So supplemental work is the measure that we try to keep doctors in the public health system. Two months ago, a Macedonian clinical centre in Skopje lost 100 doctors, who quit and went into private practice. We want to preserve a system that's primarily for those who don't have money in their pocket. Whoever has the money in his pocket to pay extra, they'll manage without us. He's going to go to a private facility, so he's going to pay for a favor, to that private institution that's not working on the burden of compulsory insurance, but working on the market, because he expects to get something more, something better, and he wants something special, so he can pay. But people who don't have money in their pocket, except for compulsory health insurance, and they're a huge number, of course, in this country, deserve to be treated by the best doctors in the clinics, to talk to them in health homes, and to work around them, to have care for those who are good, not those who will stay because they can't find work elsewhere. So, black and white variants, believe it or not, they don't exist anywhere in Europe. There is no single country on the European continent that has a strictly separate system in public ownership and private. Every country has some mode of combining this business in different ways and I honestly feel it as an anti-corruption measure. What was said here today about corruption, everyone behind what he said, listens to us 28-30,000 doctors already, 120-130,000 health workers listening carefully to what you're saying. A society that starts to disrespect doctors, teachers, judges, priests, has a serious problem, because these are pillars where society rests and that distinguish society, I would say, from an unsettled forest. I am sure that most of the MPs who spoke with this much bile today said it in effect and did not really think so, because many of them participated in the construction of the documents we adopted, and in the adoption of the law in 2005. Some of those who now speak so bitterly against and how they voted for such laws. The responsibility of the Minister of Health in every country, including ours, is to regulate the health system, adopt and implement strategies and policies. I run the Department of Health with pride and 65 people working in the headquarters yet. Two hundred people who work as field inspectors burn. In this time, we have passed 14 laws that we have proposed to you, and you have adopted many dozens, even hundreds, of sublegal acts. We're a country that's in transition, which has to question its rules and can't get its head stuck in the sand. To seek out the best solutions, that's what I mean when I say constructivity, in the search for the best solutions, open conversations and the face-to-face of facts are important. Reading newspaper headlines, twisting, is not an honor to anyone, but good. We're not getting into that. Serbia's dental chamber was seized from public authority. The term of office remains with the deputy director, and the problem will be resolved in the next 120 days in the new elections. Because it was one of the questions. A public opinion test, yes. According to the Public Procurement Act, we chose Cesid and we trusted him to conduct an examination of not perceptions of corruption in health care, because what is now being said here is the perception of corruption. After a speech like this, of course, if you ask now, that percentage will be even higher. When you ask Serbian citizens – do you think your doctors are corrupt, 60% say that. When you ask them – were you the victim of corruption, 19% said yes. When you ask them -- do you know anyone who also paid a bribe, then 19% more says yes. So less than half of what's usually got perceptions. When you enter deeper than those who gave something, who were victims of corrupt behavior, in 20% of cases they were asked for something, and in 80%, they did it themselves. We're not white angels, but we're not black devils either. A huge number of health workers in this country are doing their job sacrificed, honest, dedicated, and, of course, they deserve five times the salary. The question of the reality of the Serbian economy, we live in real time, in real circumstances, with real, not imaginary and printed money. Of that real money that we make as a state, as a society, doing every job, driver driving, peasant weapons field, worker producing product, doctor treating, teacher learning, from that money we share what we have in common. One million and two hundred thousand people don't have their own income, and we're sharing with them what we have in health insurance and it's not easy for us, but our system is much better than some of you tried to draw black tonight. This system, when looking at people on the side, other criteria that are not political, from today to tomorrow, with projections of some of their own criteria in the system, means, when we're seen by others in Davos in February of this year, Serbia is in the 46th place of 133 countries by one single thing called the health system. In this way, Serbia has the highest ranking on the world's economic council. I would never talk about it like this, but I'm talking about this because of my 28 thousand colleagues, including you, a colleague who sits here and for 80,000 health workers, 85 of whom, for example, were at the royal hospital the night the earthquake was taking babies from one room to another, making sure the hospital didn't stop working, and that's why I'm telling them from here, not that we're going to urgently fix the elevators in both buildings for 24 million dinars from the budget, but instead of that one night, two nights on duty. The happiest minister would be if the extra work didn't have to be regulated and paid in this way, if every doctor could have as much as one rich economy could pay for it. This is a way for health care professionals not to go from the state sector to private institutions running for profit in difficult times. This is a way to use in the best possible way what it has in the current circumstances. It's not easy and it's not easy, but it's the easiest thing not to do anything, it's the easiest thing not to change any regulations, it's the easiest thing not to deal with any problem. But then it wouldn't have happened, as it happened in the last few years, if the tuberculosis disease had been reduced from 34 to 25 per cent of thousands of people, to halve the mortality in coronary units, that the list of drugs now had several times more numbers than several years ago. Finally, health institutions don't look like barns, left to fall apart, but they start to look like normal, dignified buildings, and you won't be able to see the video where you ask your sister how she is, and she says -- it's terrible, the dishwasher we got two weeks ago, I don't know when we're going to do it again; you ask the patient what kind of food -- nothing, they bring me from home; whether it's hot -- no, no heat, I have three blankets to cover myself. That time is behind us. We all have to do the best we can together, everyone in our place, that this system gets better and better every day, from month to month. I'd be happy if someone else would sit in this place the next day and find a magical solution that suddenly solves everything. In these eight years, since I've been in this place, with interruptions, we've shown everyone together in the health system that we're worth it and that we're in the league of champions as a health system, regardless of what a small number can try to make our coats black and throw a shadow at the whole profession. We'll never let that happen. Corruption is a pain in the whole Serbian society and we must all fight it, but in the right way, each of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-11-0.u46458	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Of course, after Mr. Secretary, there are no more amendments, and no more opportunities to give word to anyone. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. I thank Mrs. Pavlovic and Mr. Minister. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We'll continue our work on November 16th at 10:00 p.m.
