ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36333	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, firstly I would like to address the Secretary General of the National Assembly Mr. Veljak Odalovic, and in relation to the letter that I received in response to the questions asked by Public Service Director Aleksandr Tijanic on 28 December 2009. Please, Mr. Odalovic, since I am unable and I do not know what my legal options are, to deliver this letter to the D.A. for Special Crimes, it seems to me, to Special Prosecutor Mirko Radisavljevic, because due to the current investigation conducted in connection with the fraud of millions of Serbian citizens, this letter that Mr. Tijanic sent me will help shed light on the truth. Let me remind you, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, that in early December I asked for notices and asked questions and suspected that so-called SMS bids at the Public Service are being fraudd by millions of Serbian citizens. At the second intervention of Mr. Odalovic, I received an answer from Mr. Tijanic, who defends... Since I believe that the other fellow MPs did not receive this answer, I will make sure that all fellow MPs receive an answer to my question through the congregation services. So, I was expressing my doubts at the end of 2009, because whoever had any understanding of some games, some of the laws, saw that something was wrong back then. At the time, I insisted on the moral responsibility of the Director of Public Service, Comrade Alexander Tijanic, and I received an answer that could also be considered a threat. I'm just going to say a few sentences about what he said to me, and believe me, it's a message to all of you. Comrade Tijanic says: "We are opinions," he says to himself, "this kind of question of MPs, which contains qualifications enough to sue authors of such qualifications, lower the ethical and civilizational level of the Assembly". That is the answer, i.e. in a direct letter to Mr. Odalovic, he did not even favour me with this part of the answer. I waited two months, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens, for Public Service Director Aleksandar Tijanic to gather courage and sue me. Meanwhile, it happened that, fortunately, and my encouragement, and I think the encouragement of millions of Serbian citizens, the state authorities intervened and that some people were arrested, that 160 people were brought in for an informative conversation about fraud, bids and car sales that way, i.e. the award ceremony at the Public Service. That's when I insisted on the moral component. Do millions of Serbian citizens, who finance subscriptions to the public service in such a difficult economic situation deserve to be even deceived? What I am asking of Comrade Aleksandar Tijanic, on behalf of Serbian citizens who regularly pay for a TV subscription, is that he no longer hides behind a three-story statement in an apology read by speaker girls. Mr Tijanic, gather some courage and come out at half-eight in Dnevnik tonight and apologize to millions of Serbian citizens who have been deceived through the Public Service, under one. Under two, explain how money will be compensated to Serbian citizens who participated, i.e. people's words, will be drawn to a huge fraud through the Public Service, then I said, which does not have a school programme. I hate Tianic for saying it was a gambling game. Now it shows what's true. The more truth, the better for all of us and the citizens of Serbia. As a citizen and a MP, I doubt only this team that was arrested is involved in all of this. I believe there's someone from the state lottery and the public service. Therefore, I repeat, Mr. Tianic, you are mistaken if you think you can scare the MPs. I wasn't scared. I urge you to gather your courage, to go out to Dnevnik at half-eight tonight, to apologize to the citizens of Serbia, not to hide behind a college statement and some statements in three sentences. It's your moral obligation, least of all, to go out as Director of Public Service, not to hide behind some management, behind some college. This is a science for all, just ten seconds, please, fellow Members of Parliament, not because my smallness has raised this issue, but for all of us, that we must protect the integrity of the National Assembly, that it is worth fighting and that from some of the questions that we are asking here, thank God that the state authorities are working, the truth can be learned, especially as regards those who rob Serbian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36334	Mr. Ambassador, it is the Parliament's obligation to intervene if you do not receive an answer within 15 days, as we have done. After the intervention, you received an answer and it is an obligation to forward it to you, which we have also done, and there are the authority of the Assembly completed. Mr. Milos Aligrudic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36335	Thank you, President. What I'm going to ask... In fact, it's one request I'd like to make to the Ministry of the Interior. Namely, although months have passed since the signing of the Police Cooperation Protocol, which actually refers to the demarcation line of Kosovo and Metohija and the rest of Serbia, the MPs and the public have not seen any official transcripts or copies of the originals of the protocol. It is something that would be a commitment of the Serbian government to the National Assembly and to the citizens of Serbia. At the time of the old SFRY, there were sublegal acts which, although general acts by their nature, bear on them the mark of a certain degree of secrecy, so these acts were not published in the "Official List" or in the "Official Messenger", but there was a special chamber to publish such documents which, by their nature, represent general acts. We don't have it today, fortunately we don't, but obviously we have secret documents. It is unacceptable for MPs to learn about this through newspapers, through well-informed journalists who publish allegedly an integrated version of the text in their daily newspapers. We need to get that document in this National Assembly. This is neither a question, but it is a requirement that within the time limit that the Rules of Procedure provide us with this document on 250 names of this National Assembly, because, finally, when we criticise the government's moves, we must have an official document when we speak of it. Our thesis is clear, and when the document is delivered, it will be confirmed that the Police Co-operation Agreement is another act of the Serbian government that is recognised in a factual way by independence, so-called. independence of Kosovo and Metohija, regardless of the big words that can be heard. The statement of Minister Vuk Jeremic given in Budapest would have been signed in general; therefore, against such words we can have nothing against, they sound good. But one thing is words, and the other is deeds. Politics is not only proved by words and by what we say, but also by what we do. What has so far been said is that the current government in Serbia is ready to make major compromises when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija's status. When a matter of priorities is raised, is the EU priority, whether the priority of protecting territorial integrity, mainly among most politicians in the ruling coalition, is clouded and constantly repeating the EU membership priority. Where is that protection of the elemental state interests? Where does that show up? If you want to seriously talk about these things, then it is necessary for MPs to get those documents on which they are entitled under the Constitution and the laws of this state. What's going to happen on Kranj Hill? How's that meeting gonna work? The words go from here, I repeat, that the state of Serbia and its officials do not agree to such a thing. What will happen to the enormous pressure – you read Wardsworth, the British ambassador, the other day in the paper – what will happen to the enormous pressure on making good neighbourly relations with Kosovo and Metohija? Who should be here to convince that making good neighbourly relations with a part of the territory of their own country does not mean de facto recognition of independence? It's a matter of elemental logic. What we're interested in is how the state and the ruling coalition thinks they're setting themselves up? From the current functioning and activities of the ruling coalition, we see an obvious intention to create good neighbourly relations, to make this big step and compromise according to EU member states' demands, as at the end of the term, not the European Commission, will decide on Serbia's EU accession. Let's see what the line of defense of this country is, is the only line of defense what Wolf Jeremic... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Speak. Please provide us with a protocol on police co-operation.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36336	Mr. Dragan Stevanović has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36337	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS in December of last year, I asked the government one question, and, behold, a day or two ago, I got an answer. Namely, I received the answer under the term “very urgent”. If I analyze that it's been four months, I can only imagine if I got this answer if the document wasn't marked "very urgently". Otherwise, we asked a question about something that happened in the municipality of Bosilegrad, which is a rally organised by Bulgaria's parliamentary ruling party on the territory of our municipality, where they brought 200 people from Bulgaria to succeed. The answer I received from Minister Dacic said that the rally had been reported neatly and it was found that the meeting had expired without breach of public order. The subject of our interest, in any case, was not a public order and we are not in our presentation, i.e. in doubt that the public order was at the level and that everything was fine. What interests the SRS is the collapse of the constitutional order, which was questioned through the exposure of all those involved in the rally. What is contentious and absurd for us is that the organisation of the rally is provided through the institutions of the Republic of Serbia, and those participating in the rally simultaneously destroy its constitutional order and its institutions. What also irritates us is the fact that things didn't stop in the meantime, but they get at their intensity and scope. Meanwhile, in Bulgaria there were also some programmes that included representatives of local self-government from Bosilegrad, where they were told they would be the first Western Bulgarian provinces in the Bulgarian parliament, which they of course did not deny. What is also being imposed as a problem is the fact that ATAKA, the parliamentary group that organised the rally, is the ruling party in Bulgaria. We cannot interpret these views as an individual or opposition Bulgarian party's position. This is in some way the official position of the Bulgarian state. Because it can't be a law that proposes an SPS or a G17 that it's not a government position, it's a personal attitude. I'm making a parallel, I'm comparing just, I don't mean anything by it. Now I want to ask the state, i.e. you who represent the government, are you familiar with the fact that the same parliamentary group also submitted a proposal for a declaration to the Bulgarian Parliament and the European Parliament, on the basis of which they are calling for a review of the borders of the Republic of Serbia in the area of the municipalities of Bosilegrad, Surdulica, Dimitrovgrad and Babusnica? We are not interested in municipalities that are in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. Strange things have been happening ever since. Things happen where the state is silent, closes its eyes, which are objectively placed as a problem in the field of education, in the area of local authorities, as regards the position and status of those who end schools in the Republic of Serbia, at our universities, who are discriminated against by those people from that municipality who finish school at Sofia University, Pernic or anyone else in the Republic of Bulgaria. The Serbian Radical Party is requesting a response from the competent state authorities if they have done something, in accordance with their legal and constitutional powers, to stop the destructive operation of the Cultural and Information Centre in Bosilegrad, the competent institutions in Bosilegrad, which have become a non-constitutional, or anti-constitutional function in the Republic of Serbia? What have they done so far and what will they do not to question good neighbourly and quality international relations in the territory of the municipalities of Bosilegrad, Dimitrovgrad, Babusnica, Surdulica and all those municipalities where the Bulgarian national community lives? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36338	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, come forward? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending meetings of MPs Zoran Kasalović, Đuro Peric, Milan Lapčević, Nikola Lazic, Aleksandra Jankovic and Elvira Kovac. According to Article 88(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, apart from the representative of Ivica Dacic, the first Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, and Mr Vuk Jeremic, Foreign Minister, I have also called for the sittings to be attended by Milorad Todorovic, Secretary of the Interior Ministry and Zorica Loncar-Kasalica, Head of the Department of Administrative Affairs at the Ministry of the Interior. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint single search on proposals for the agenda under paragraphs 18 to 28, and before the opening of the search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 163(3) and Article 65, paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours, and that shall be the Parliament's Group for European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group – one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 Group plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS Group - Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group Forward Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS Group - JS - 18 minutes; the MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Parliamentary group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS – six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that, on the points of the agenda of the parliamentary group, it will be: MP Dragan Shormaz of the DSS- Vojislav Kostunica and MP Zoran Krasic of the SRS. In accordance with Article 152(2), and in accordance with Article 142(2), paragraph 2. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a joint single search on: Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France on Police Co-operation, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Swiss Confederation on Police Cooperation in the fight against Crime, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Israel on Co-operation in the fight against illicit trafficking and the Abuse of Narcotics and Psychotropic Substances, the Law on the Law of the Serbian Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the approval of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Swiss Confederation on the readmission of Persons with the Protocol on the Implementation of the Law on the Law of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia on the Republic of Serbia on the Republic of Croatia, the Proposal for the Treaty on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Croatia, amending the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Croatia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Serbia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic Does Prime Minister Ivica Dacic, the first Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister, want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36339	Madam President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the agenda of today's session of the National Assembly, there are several agreements and, under our legal regulations, it is necessary to be verified by Parliament in order to enter into force. It is about agreements we have signed with different states, related to police co-operation, for readmission protocols, then, a reciprocal recognition agreement and replacement of national driving licenses with Spain and an agreement concerning the determination of border crossings between Serbia, Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina. As you know, under the Constitution, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is responsible for confirming international agreements. There's eleven laws on the agenda. There are four agreements on police co-operation with France, Israel, Switzerland and Croatia, four readmission agreements, i.e. the law on validation, protocold the implementation of the Agreement between Serbia and the European Community on the reading of persons who are illegally staying, which, as you know, was confirmed in the National Assembly several years ago. The agenda includes an agreement with Spain on the recognition of driving licences and two agreements with Bosnia and Herzegovina concerning border crossings and border traffic. All these agreements, with the exception of the Agreement with Bosnia and Herzegovina, were signed in 2009 and were immediately referred to the assembly procedure for ratification. Confirmation. Agreements with Bosnia and Herzegovina were signed in 2005 at the time of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, and should be confirmed by the Republic of Serbia because it is a legal follower of the state union, but, of course, these agreements would only be confirmed in parts of the agreement concerning the Republic of Serbia. As you know, the Ministry of the Interior, or our police, has the necessary international co-operation, because there is no successful fight against crime, terrorism, corruption and all that is within our jurisdiction without active international co-operation in this field. This international co-operation and police co-operation can take place and take place on the operational agenda through the Interpol co-operation and in the direct communication of our police, but it is a practice to strengthen these bilateral relations and establish direct contacts and contact points for the co-operation of our police and our ministry traditionally sign agreements with different states, related to police co-operation. I will just remind myself that we have this agreement, in 2004, was signed with Austria, on co-operation in the fight against international organised crime, international trafficking in drugs and international terrorism; Protocol on the co-operation of border police through the experimental establishment of the number of contacts between the ICP of Serbia, the Ministry of the Border Police and the Administration of the Interior of Romania in February 2006; Protocol on Co-operation in the fight against organised crime, the international trafficking of drug trafficking in Serbia and international terrorism between Romania and the Republic of Serbia, 2007; Agreement on Co-operation against Crime between the Government of the Slovak Republic and the Government of Serbia, 2007; Agreement between Bulgaria and Serbia on the Co-operation of the Cross-Corms of the Republic of Serbia and of Serbia on the Cross-Crandic Cross-Cormia of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, and the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, and the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, and the Republic of Serbia, and the Republic of Serbia, and the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, and the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, and the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of the Republic of I would like to say that the basic motive for concluding these agreements on police co-operation is the need to further improve that co-operation. In doing so, it should be noted that this co-operation has been on a satisfactory level so far, especially with our friendly countries, in which a large number of our citizens live, but also with those involved in criminal activity. The accent on these agreements is on the fight against crime, especially organised crime, as well as terrorism. It is common to these agreements, as you can see, to define their objectives, areas and means of co-operation, the competent authorities of co-operation, to provide for the establishment of common bodies, to regulate ways of exchange and protection of confidential data, and to provide for the possibility of exchange of police liaison officers. When it comes to agreements and readmission protocols, that is, handing over a person who is illegally staying in foreign countries, they are primarily motivated to combat illegal migration. In addition, these acts are also referred to by the Agreement between Serbia and the European Community on the readmission of persons who are illegally staying, which provides that Serbia and the EU Member States may draw up a protocol on the implementation of the Agreement in order to establish co-operation mechanisms and to specify how these issues relate to the readmission process, the identification of competent authorities, border crossings and checkpoints, return modes, conditions for return, including transit of third-country nationals or stateless persons with escorts. These issues are therefore subject to these agreements or readmission protocols. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia ratified the agreement on 7 November 2007. Otherwise, negotiations between the EU and the Republic of Serbia on the conclusion of the readmission agreement began in November 2006 and after three rounds of negotiations in Brussels were initialled between Serbia and the European Commission on 16 May 2007. The signing of the agreement followed on 18 September 2007 in Brussels, and, as I said, the National Assembly ratified this agreement on 7 November 2007. The agreement between the European Commission, i.e. the European Community and the Republic of Serbia on the readmission of the illegally staying person came into force on 1 January 2008. The provisions of this Agreement shall be primate in respect of any bilateral agreement or readmission arrangement concluded between Serbia and the EU Member State to the extent that the provisions of those agreements and arrangements do not comply with the provisions of this Agreement. In line with the Readmission Agreement, which I mentioned, implementation protocols should also be concluded for the implementation of a single readmission agreement with the EU. The situation is as follows: Slovenia signed a Protocol on Readmission on 8 June 2009 and entered into force on 8 February 2010; the French Protocol on Readmission was signed on 18 November 2009; the Italian Protocol on Readmission was signed on 13 November 2009 and was sent to the Assembly procedure with Hungary; the Protocol on Readmission was signed on 15 December 2009 at the Serbian-Hungarian border; negotiations on the readmission protocol were under way with Germany. It was held in July 2009, in Germany, and then the text of the protocol was agreed and its signing is expected. The text of the Protocol was agreed with the Benelux countries on 25 and 26 January 2010 and our internal legal procedure is under way; it was agreed with Estonia on the negotiations5. and on 6 November 2008, the text of a protocol between the Republic of Serbia and Estonia on the application of the agreement, with the exception of two members whose approval is due to be held a new round of negotiations, which depends on the Estonian side. The protocol negotiations with Malta were under way, held on 25 and 26 November 2009; the text of the protocol was also agreed with Slovakia during the readmission talks in December of last year. The text of the readmission protocol has also been agreed with the UK; negotiations were held in Belgrade on February 23rd and 24th, and the text of the protocol has been agreed. I would like to point out that in the process of reading a person who is illegally staying in the territory of another party to these protocols and agreements, all costs shall be borne by the State applying for a readmission. We note that only in certain cases the cost of issuing a passport is borne by our country, or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. As for the return of a person of Albanian nationality from Kosovo and Metohija, as a rule, EU member states return them directly to Kosovo and Metohija's territory based on arrangements that the countries have concluded with UNMIK. When it comes to persons of non-Albanian nationality in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, for reasons of security, they can choose whether to return to the territory of Kosovo and Metohija or to the territory of the rest of Serbia and Serbia accept the return of all their citizens after their identity and citizenship status are unquestionably established. Last year, in 2009, a total of 2,191 return applications were received by the competent authorities of EU member states under the Readmission Agreement, of which 1,423 were given a positive response, i.e. that there is a commitment to takeover and that they can return to Serbia, and 768 persons were given a negative response, that there is no obligation to take over, given that the verification procedure did not establish the citizenship status and identity of these persons. During the first two months of this year, a total of 478 return applications were received by the competent authorities of EU member states under the Readmission Agreement, of which 304 persons were given a positive response that there is a commitment to takeover and that they can return to Serbia; for 156 persons, a negative response is given, that there is no obligation, since the verification procedure does not establish the citizenship status and identity of these persons, and 18 applicants are still in the verification process. I would like to point out that, as you have seen, in the period since visa liberalisation was introduced, there has been an increased number of asylum requirements in some EU countries, especially in Belgium and Sweden. It's clear these faces won't get... It is, of course, the largest number of people from southern Serbia's territory, mostly Albanian and a small number of Roma nationalities, and a significant number of persons from Macedonia's territory, also Albanian nationalities. Today will be returned by bus from Belgium to those who willingly want to return. Of that, 21 are citizens of Serbia and will be returned to Presevo. The other 20 and some persons are citizens of the Republic of Macedonia and will be transported further to Macedonia. It's important to say that it's necessary to determine whether in this... Otherwise, it is about four hundred people who have sought asylum in Belgium and just over 500-600 people who have sought asylum in Sweden. It has been made clear by the authorities that there is no basis for searching. The agreement is that the authorities of the Republic of Macedonia and Serbia look and investigate whether they are in the process of going to Belgium and Sweden, as it is done through certain tourist agencies, mainly by bus transport, have elements of organisation, or criminal activities, given that it is clearly established how it comes to Belgium – buses on certain lines, which were practically coming from Macedonia and taking our citizens from southern Serbia along the way. What matters is that Serbia will be very cooperative in this. Of course, we expect that what is happening will not endanger visa liberalisation, given that there is a clear agreement with this country, a readmission protocol, so that all those who are illegally staying and without any reason and grounds for seeking asylum will be rejected and returned to Serbia. I therefore ask our citizens to understand that visa liberalisation does not mean the right to obtain asylum, but the right to obtain certain labour rights or the right to permanent residence in those countries because it is defined by their internal legislation. Here we have the data, for every country, as much as the request for a readmission has been, as long as it's accepted. I just want to remind you once again, when the state that applied for a readmission sends us a list of faces, then we determine whether those faces are our citizens, given that they are mostly persons who pretend to be without documents. If their identity is determined and it is our citizens, then it is accepted to return to the Republic of Serbia. That's why this number is like that. Of the total number, I said, for last year, of 2,191 requests, i.e. readmission applications, we gave a positive response to 1,423 people, which means that these other persons have not been identified, there is no evidence there that they are citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The next agreement is an agreement with Spain on the reciprocal recognition of national driving licences to our citizens who have legal residence in Spain. The agreement should allow them to make their valid driving licences, issued by our state authorities, substitute for Spanish without passing additional theoretical and practical exams. This team, before the Spanish criminal legislation since May 2008, provides for driving without a driver's license to be sanctioned with three to six months in prison or a high fine. Foreign citizens who have a stay in Spain are obliged to exchange their driver's license for Spain after a certain time. Otherwise, I can comply with these criminal provisions, so this agreement is in the interest of our people who are legally staying in Spain. It is our interest that such agreements be signed with other countries where such problems exist. We have particularly insisted on this, and we have been talking about it for a long time and negotiating with Italy, because there is also this problem of non-recognition of our driving licenses. It's very important to do so so that our people who are staying there wouldn't have any criminal problems because of the non-recognition of our driver's licenses. Finally, agreements with BiH regarding border crossings in border traffic – the aim of these agreements is to regulate the functioning of border crossings opened in 1992 by unilateral decisions by the two sides to traffic people and goods. This should facilitate the life of the population established in the border area, but also improve all types of co-operation at local level. These border crossings, after the entry into force of both agreements, will be overtegrated into international border crossings and border crossings for border traffic, through which only local populations will cross over. The implementation of both agreements should take place with the participation and development of mixed committees composed of representatives of both parties. In the end, I would just like to point out that all these agreements are in a more effective position of our ministry's work and are of interest not only to the state authorities, but also to the citizens of our country, when it comes to regulating legally unregulated issues, such as driving licences. I therefore call on all parliamentary clubs and all MPs to, regardless of the political differences and regardless of the political groups they belong to, the authorities and the opposition, and given the character of these agreements, the assessments that these agreements can support, bearing in mind that they far exceed any political framework of the functioning of our political parties from which this Parliament is made up. So I call on you to support these agreements, because they are in the role of our country and our citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36340	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Do the MPs who issued an opinion at the meeting of the Defence and Security Committee want a word? Excuse me, do the committee officials want a word? Yeah. Just sign in. Here you go. The word is Mr Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36341	That's what I did, Madam President, and I have a feeling now that there may be some intention on your part, but I won't insist on it. After such an inspiring speech by the Home Secretary, a man cannot take the impression, however, that some things are not exactly what the minister wants to present them to us. First of all, Mr. Minister, I think you should have advocated that these 11 points don't come down to one single point. If you take as long as it took the President of the Assembly just to read the agenda, I measured it precisely – four minutes and 36 seconds, there are MPs who have the right to speak for only five minutes, for example, when they read the agenda there are 24 seconds left to explain. You must admit, despite the unquestionable abilities that MPs have, that this still goes beyond normal or normal limits. If you already wanted to shorten this debate, you could have divided it into, let's say, some natural clue. We should have had at least three or four points of the agenda. We have four points on readmission, four points on police co-operation; we have an agreement on driving licences and these agreements with Montenegro, BiH. You have to admit, at least these three areas have nothing to do with each other. But it shows only how much you appreciate this Parliament and how much you care to really hear from MPs what they have to say about the proposals for laws coming from the government. Now let's ask this question of your call to the citizens of Serbia not to travel to Europe. I must confess, Mr. Minister, I'm amazed. On the contrary, I call on the citizens of Serbia to go to Europe. I guess that's the goal of going to Europe. I don't understand, Mr. Minister, what's the difference between going to Europe in the 1990s and 2010. I really don't understand, Mr. Minister, why you haven't paid attention to such a fact, because you've devoted a lot of time to a problem that's not on the agenda, and it's about returning some citizens who have left because they're looking for political asylum. I trust these citizens to really seek political asylum. Mr. Minister, I remind you that in the 1990s these same citizens and representatives of Europe believed. What happened if they didn't believe them now and now they want them back, and in the '90s they believed them? It's a simple reason: now they're not politically interested in them, and then they were interesting to them. At that time, with their help and their numbers, they wanted to prove that there was a non-democracy regime in Serbia, that everyone had both human and political rights, that they didn't have at the time and that they now have. Look how hypocritical that West is. Why should we accept now, because of their hypocrisy, that we still have damage? Those who have left, who have accepted them as political asylum seekers, because otherwise they cannot stay, should not be accepted in Serbia. That's one reason. The second reason is – how is it even possible for you to accept double arches when it comes to citizens from Kosovo and Metohija? You say those who accept to return to Kosovo and Metohija go directly to Pristina, and those who do not accept, because they fear for their safety, accept Serbia. I'm asking you, Mr. Minister, if that's true, and it's certainly true, isn't that the best proof of what kind of creation is in Kosovo and Metohija? What kind of para-state bodies are these or even institutions and freaks from a country where citizens are not sure about their physical security? Isn't that the most obvious example? But what does Europe care about that? Europe doesn't care about that at all. It is important for them to get rid of those who came to Europe in the 1990s and who are now creating difficulties for them. The next question that is being asked – why should we sign agreements with countries that have recognised Kosovo and Metohija? I just can't understand it. They recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence, and we agree to do them a favor in fact by now doing what they did to harm us as something that is completely normal, common, and that we have damage. That doesn't make any sense to me. That is, I understand when I consider what you're doing and how you're looking to destroy this country. We're going to the next points, which are related to police co-operation. Here is also a principled question – what kind of co-operation is it, except when it comes to the fight against terrorism, organised crime, drug trafficking, etc? The question is, what is our role in this? This latest affair about the Saric brothers best says, at least some information says that it is essentially a calculation that was intended only to change the top, or to change the importers and the cocaine distributors, that it has now become someone else's hands. As far as the market is concerned, it'll all go back to the way it was. I'm sure someone behind it is, because, if we weren't lying, all that was done was primarily in co-operation with the DEA, the U.S. Department of Anti-Smuggling Narcotics. But some facts suggest that this service is also managed in some ways by political motives. Not just political, but economic motives. Because regardless of the fight against narcotics, the fact is that there are more and more of them, especially in Serbia's market. It's particularly worrying that a growing number of children, and this younger age, become drug addicts. There's one more question. Here you state that we will sign police co-operation with Croatia. I ask the question – my people, how is that possible? How is it possible for you to sign an agreement with a state where there are still secret indictments? Is there land in the world where it still works? In particular, all these secret indictments are against Serbs, which speaks for itself. You're still signing an agreement with a state like that. It's just amazing! It is the exemplar of human rights violations and freedoms, that there are secret indictments, that no one alive knows that you are accused and that at the time when it corresponds to the Croatian state, if someone shows up with these secret accusations, even if he is not there, they can place him, because the secret is, how do we know how many such people have, and arrest him. This prevents those who in the criminal actions "Blash" and "Storm" from returning in 1995 from performing the greatest ethnic cleansing in Europe since World War II. We need to sign a police agreement with them. It's just amazing. I'd continue, since I've issued an opinion, and for the next five minutes, if you'll excuse me. (President: It is now up to those who have the opportunity to explain their own opinion. You're the first among them. Here you go. ) Thank you very much. So, I think, Mr. Minister, you should have thought this through and not put our country in this position. We have another point here, one law, or protocol, which the SRS will support. This is related to the proposal for a law confirming an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Spain on reciprocal recognition and replacement of national driving licences. We believe that this is necessary, that there is one number of citizens working not only in Spain, but also in other EU countries and that such protocols should be signed with all EU countries. Mr. Minister, before you even talked to all these countries about signing these protocols, you should have asked to sign a protocol like this with those countries. First of all, I think you should have done it with Italy. I'm sure you've been informed of a problem that had several thousand of our citizens (I don't know exactly, from 1,500 to 4,000th and something), who in Italy were driving trucks, buses and who had to leave Italy last year because they couldn't do the job anymore because Italy no longer recognised the permits issued in Serbia, or SRJ. Now I ask you why you, Mr. Minister, have done no more to resolve this problem for the benefit of our citizens? If they really appreciate our country, respect all the things that have started here, praise us in all sorts of ways, why such a simple gesture doesn't show that it's real, that it's not just a form and that it doesn't have just one background behind it, and that's that as much as they drag us into that path that they've set for us themselves, until we completely accept Kosovo's independence and Metohija. In the background of everything, there is what every day, already open, threatens us – that we will have to establish good neighbourly relations with Kosovo and Metohija. It can no longer be understood as advice or taken as advice. It is a direct threat and a warning – if you do not accept that you have good neighbourly relations, you will not be able to go to Europe. And in turn, from an English, German ambassador. This current German ambassador is a little nicer and more refined. Before you know what he told us, Mr. Cobel, remember, Mr. Minister – be good, otherwise, we have other ways. To remind us of what they have told us that in 1918 we did not enter these borders into the Kingdom of SHS. They probably don't say it in public right now, maybe they're telling you in direct encounters, maybe that's why you think accepting these things might avoid something more serious coming on the agenda. However, Mr Minister, I am sure there is nothing good ahead of us, that in all these relations with the EU and EU countries, we should put the issue of Kosovo and Metohija first and be the issue of all issues, and until it is decided that we should take care of what we accept. Finally, I call again on the citizens of Serbia, get ready and everybody head to Europe, because that is the goal and don't mind these calls... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Home Secretary because I don't think that's good for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36342	Among those who have issued their opinion on the Committee is Mrs Natasa Jovanovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36343	Thank you. Madam President, Mr. Minister, in this separate opinion, I will only talk about one agreement you signed in August of 2009, without diminishing the importance of this with the Kingdom of Spain, regarding driving licences, as Mr. Todorovic spoke of. But this is really of great importance when it comes to an agreement with Switzerland on police co-operation in the fight against crime, because it is a road that will allow you to solve an unfinished case, which is the tobacco mafia, headed by Stanko Subotic Cane. He, according to some information submitted by many European media, is in the largest number of days a year, except in Montenegro, where he is sheltered from his political mentor Milo Djukanovic, whose funder and for whom he is doing all the dirty work back 15 years, is located in Switzerland. There are even serious indications that he has Swiss citizenship, he certainly has another country's citizenship, but his largest capital is concentrated in Switzerland, in addition to what he has in Montenegro, and that according to our country's proposal, since he was put on Interpol's red warrant in August 2007, the Montenegrin government did not want to take him away, or to ban the use of that property in Montenegro. However, there is now a serious danger that the Swiss authorities will protect him, although he, according to the knowledge that some potential witnesses have made in the proceedings against him, and particularly Mr Ratko Knezevic, a well-known Montenegrin businessman and former representative of that state, or the Republic of Montenegro, while we were still in the common state, in Washington... So, Stanko Subotić is a serious criminal and you know it very well. It is not only marked as the leader of the tobacco mafia, which has caused huge financial damage to the state of Serbia over a period of more than ten years, but it is also someone suspected of being the commander of individual murders in Serbia, first Radovan Stojčić Badge, former deputy police minister and then other people in the chain, which are designated as part of the tobacco mafia. This agreement in Article 2 says that our country will co-operate with the Swiss in the field of fighting all criminal activities, and in particular, and are then listed (from letters a. to letters l.) these crimes. However, Mr. Minister, we are now in big trouble because of the fact that an APB issued for Stanko Sutotic in August 2007 uses only one word "fraud", which means fraud. The fraud, he is truly European famous and is one of the biggest criminals in the Balkans, everyone in Serbia knows he is a fraud, but it is not a legally well-formed crime on the warrant. We have organized crime here; then, under point f. drug trafficking, which can also bring him in connection with the Saric brothers, which will show that the subsequent investigation is true; then, under the letter of money laundering and economic crime, which is true; corruption, as regards the purchase of individual politicians in the country, particularly Tomislav Nikolic and Alexander Vukic. Because, as you know, Mr. Minister, BIA informed us 15 days ago, on our direct question, that Nikolic and Vukic had meetings at the Hotel "Ric" in Paris immediately after an Interpol warrant was called after Stanko Subotic Canet because it was designated the leader of the tobacco cartel, the largest in the Balkans, as one of the most dangerous criminals. So, according to testimony, i.e. statements just now mentioned by Mr. Knezevic in several media outlets, both in Serbia and in other countries, on the day they met, the first and second, so who knows how many times, the BIA said that it did not know the nature and character of these meetings, but certainly there were at least five million euros for breaking the SRS and for the kidnapping of the party at the moment when the greatest danger threatened our president, who has been a hero in The Hague for seven years already. Now you can intensify... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... I end up, working with the Swiss authorities if they want to, but I'm sure they protect it and they have it, and they'll always tell you, this legal procedure and interference because, I repeat, it's a wrongly formulated warrant that's been called after Stanko Subotic; instead of the words "false", it was supposed to be "organised crime, smuggling" and everything I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36344	Do any of the other MPs who have singled out an opinion want a word? Mr. Jadranko Vukovic and Branimir Djokic are not there. Do the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Mr. Velimir Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36345	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to welcome this set of laws, but not in this way. It is very bad when eleven laws or agreements go in the package, as Mr Todorovic spoke of. This was to be classified into several points so that we could discuss every problem, not to be able to get through some of the mistakes that have been made so far in many of the laws that we have made, in many decisions. We have a problem because the ministers come here and bring in a package of laws. I remember agriculture, fifteen laws at once, in the morning, we adopt everything in the package, the principle debate, and we boast in the evening in the media that eleven laws were passed in principle, fifteen laws in principle, and that's success. We all repeat one thing - it is the EU, it is European laws, we are approaching the EU, etc. Yesterday we had another minister, who unfortunately, in this way, in the package, abused some government decisions and perhaps parliament. He told us stories, even used one sentence that cannot be justified in parliament, I'm surprised the chairman didn't warn him when he said it – the one who says it lies like a dog. The People's proverb says that a dog can be faithful and can't lie like a dog; I didn't hear it; I heard it for the first time from the Minister now I can say – he's lying as a minister. Why? Because he brought up a series of lies. (President: Mr. Ilich, let me just point you to today's topic. I'll be right back on the subject. I expect Minister Dacic to take some steps to keep many agreements with the states in order to discuss them here. Just to read the agenda takes time, and just to count the agenda points, and just to discuss every point, then you need an extremely long time. So this isn't good. I ask the ruling coalition - where are you in such a hurry, what's the hurry? Why packages like this? We heard the other day that the EU was the earliest in 2017. So they don't make any mistakes that they're running around here because they're hunting in a blurry... When something is adopted in one package and people don't pay attention, no one says a word of it. We have cases and yesterday we discussed, I participated in this debate... I expect you, Mr. Minister, to resolve a major problem, and given that the Ministry received your party, the Ministry of Energy, whose Minister, Mr. Skundric, I expect his reaction, is also a public reaction from the EPS, to come forward for several reasons. Some time ago, the government of the Republic of Serbia made one decision and approved an EPS debt of 32,000,000 euros to set optical cables on corridors. The EPS has finished, set up, and it is a network of optical cables set up by the EPS in Serbia and is in debt to a 32,000,000 loan, and the loan is now being paid off. Have we ever agreed at the government that any of Serbia's public enterprises should receive additional revenues from using optical cable corridors? Yesterday, Minister Dulic justified that it is good to enter with the optics of some Nuba Invest, a money laundering company in Serbia. Who paid the Roads five million euros? Mr. Ilich, I'm going to have to direct you again. ) These are agreements that are signed with states. We have an agreement with Slovenia, but we don't have to deal with their criminals. We sign an agreement with Spain, we sign an agreement with many countries, but not with criminal groups, who launder money through Serbia, and it all fits down after we have some agreements with these countries. Please make one system in this country, which is completely complete and which is now used with 20% capacity, and 80% is free capacity... Now someone's building a new system, a parallel system, throwing the EPS out of use in the telecommunications system. How is it possible that someone who doesn't have a license, a license, the approval of a RATEL enters such a huge investment? If you're driving and you're stopped by a traffic cop, Mr. Minister, and he asks you first to give him a driver's license, and you say - I don't have a license, he doesn't talk to you any further. So, you've committed a violation, you're not qualified to drive. You can't run big investments in Serbia, etc. For free of all these agreements that are signed when parallel members of our government, people from the ruling coalition use and abuse power, obtain quick approval from public enterprises. Here we had a minister of infrastructure who said he had no idea about it; in his portfolio, he introduced us to various Tomažićs, various Subotics, various people here who come and do certain jobs. So, please, as a resolution minister, take all the action, and I'll get you complete documentation, see what this is all about. Call Mr Skundric, talk to EPS whether it is true that this country invested in natural resources; took credit and made a major investment in Serbia, implemented optical cables and covered Serbia's entire territory. The EPS said in its report that it is the most modern optics in the Balkans right now, completely complete. Now comes the company that has 3,000 euros in the account, no directors, no nobody, no employees and gets a huge job, at a small door. How is it possible in a country that wants to join the EU? We listened to things here yesterday, we listened to the defence of a minister that little Djokica wouldn't understand, let alone someone else. Please take all measures. Another thing, as far as Kosovo is concerned, please, will these transport permits be treated... Already in Kosovo, they are looking for, here, "Lasti", "Putniku" and many other firms, to enter Kosovo, asking for permits valid for Germany, France, other countries. Will it become a practice or will it agree with EULEX that Serbs with their province can communicate in transport as they have now been? Or will they have to act like Kosovo is a third country and have CEMTs and all those permits that apply to all of Europe? Therefore, this is a very important issue, which we must raise and see the status of Serbian carriers and carriers from Kosovo in this situation. Will what we've been looking for these days "Lastin", "Putnik's" buses and others finally apply, and we won't be able to get out of it? I warn you that in the negotiations, which will certainly be these days, Kosovo should be treated as the Constitution of Serbia, and certainly not as a third state, fully independent and used by Eulex, something that is not part of Resolution 1244 and is not in the agreements that have been reached so far. Therefore, it is extremely important for Serbia. I hope you do something about it. Secondly, many agreements have been agreed with Montenegro these days, and I am asking one question, Mr. Minister, since in your sector air traffic, how did a Montenegrin air carrier get permission to fly from Serbia to be a business formed in Serbia? Whose means are these? Whose private company is this? When I was a minister and we were together, Serbia-Montenegro, the same request was filed by a suspicious company and we did not give it permission, but wanted to fly from Pljevlja, Montenegro. Now the question is, is it the same company that came to Serbia to sink JAT, which is a large Serbian brand, and to start taking over the entire lines used by the Serbian national JAT airline? So, what is the role of this carrier? Who is this carrier? Whose capital is it? Who opened the company? Whose company is it? Who gave the approval? Is that the government's position or has someone individually granted approval for such a thing? As for these optic cables, please see if it's true that the EPS gave consent to that, and it should have. Is it true that Rattel gave permission to the distributor or didn't give it? Is it true that the Ministry of Telecommunications has given consent or not? This is an international transit, and it will be extremely useful in Serbia and will bring extremely large revenues. Only what is now done brings 45,000 euros a year, clean from transit. Therefore, I expect all of this to be checked and reviewed and to take account of Serbia in these international agreements, that the natural resources of Serbia are not given in vain and that what has been acquired for centuries in Serbia and what is rich in this country is not spent on depravity, and in particular does not give some European, Slovenian, Croatian, any tycoons to launder money and invest their own, extremely suspicious, capital here on the basis of investments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36346	Thank you. The word is Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36347	So now I don't repeat these remarks for connecting eleven points of the agenda into a single debate and not repeating what the SRS has been saying for years, and someone doesn't want to hear it, someone doesn't believe what we're talking about, for today's debate, I'm going to use data from abroad, data from the United States, data from the European Union, which you're fanatically pursuing. If in these data coming from Brussels you recognize today's discussions from a few years ago, it's not a coincidence. This kind of introduction is much more important for citizens who follow this transmission so they can simply understand that the error of the Serbian Radical Party is only that it is not related to tycoons, is not related to organised crime, does not work for foreign intelligence services. If it's some kind of mistake, then we recognize it as a mistake. We have always expressed the political views that express, above all, the fundamental interests of the people and the state. Well, let's get in line. On 4 February 2008, the European Union published in its official list a document called Mission Eulex. On 9 January 2008, Hashim Thaci was elected president of the government. On 16 February 2008, the European Commission decided that the Eulex mission would come to Kosovo and Metohija. On February 17, 2008, 109 lawmakers, with a rich terrorist past, presented as MPs of their assembly, made a decision on Kosovo's independence. If we stop here and look at what happened, we see that the United States on February 18th, so, one day after the declaration, has recognised an independent Kosovo. France did so on 18 February 2008, Italy on 21 February 2008, Switzerland on 27 February 2008, Croatia on 19 March 2008, Norway on 28 March 2008, and so we reach a number of 65 or perhaps more countries that have recognised an independent Kosovo. Just to remind you, on October 8, 2008, the General Assembly decided to request the International Court of Justice's advisory opinion. May I remind you that in 2008, the National Assembly, or the majority of the National Assembly, did not allow any future resolution concerning Kosovo and Metohija and the status of the Eulex mission to be discussed. The United Nations says that, at the end of December 2008, the mission came to Kosovo and Metohija, in charge of three counts: police, justice, customs. The mission has several thousand participants to help strengthen the legal aspects and legal capacity of the independent state of Kosovo, headed by Hashim Thaci. Of course, the European Union has hurried, on February 18th, the day after the declaration, it made one decision, which was not very binding, more like a recommendation, so 22 states of the 27 that made the EU recognise independent Kosovo. That, of course, was not done by Slovakia, Greece, Romania, Spain and Cyprus. This is no obstacle to Eulex, because those in Brussels say -- Boris Tadic accepted the Eulex mission. And, 2008, 2009, 2010, and below, the second part of NATO's pact-led operation is to form a Kosovo armed force of 2,500 soldiers and 800 reservers. You see for yourself that slowly, one step at a time, but surely they end some very important shares to put pressure on someone to come to power in Serbia, to recognise independent Kosovo and Metohija and to finish the job as regards the Security Council, the United Nations, the International Court of Justice and everything. Then we have one diabolical approach to this policy -- I won't admit it, I won't sign anything, but everything seems that Kosovo and Metohija are actually moving away from the Republic of Serbia. What was the parallel of the Shipar institutions is now parallel to Serbian institutions, and they are now jumping to Serbian parallel institutions, as they say, via Goran Bogdanovic and Boris Tadic. This is all in the Security Council and EU documents, because they count on these players. Let me just add this purely factual base to a few very important details. So, besides those structures that come across the EU, both Croatia, Turkey, Switzerland, Norway and the United States are as much involved in helping the Eulex mission. That would be like Eulex plus. Just to remind you, Croatia and Slovenia have long been in the process, before it was official. For ten years they have been preparing future administrative personnel from Kosovo's independent state. They just kept doing something in continuum. What's the status now? To explain, it was once said that Afghanistan is a territory where drugs are produced; Kosovo and Metohija under the rule of Thaci and the KLA, regardless of whether they were terrorists or now washed, amnested fighters for large human rights, Kosovo has been treated as a major drug warehouse. Of course, that part of NATO's pact that controls both locations is in Naples, and you know there's a mob there too. In the meantime, however, something has changed. Mr Dacic, the latest report by Americans, which concerns the Balkans, contains one piece that gives the best picture of democratic authority in the Republic of Serbia from 2000 to today. They are said to have the document, according to the document, Romania, Serbia and Turkey are important transit countries for drug trafficking, and according to the same report, the routes of smuggling are also, but to a much smaller extent, in Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, imagine, in Kosovo and Montenegro. Albania is considered a cannabis supplier, while Bulgaria produces something else. So, democratically, we have found ourselves among several leading states that allow smooth drug trafficking across this area. Just to remind you of the visionary moves that Hashim Thaci made on January 9th 2008. One sentence says - when he was appointed the fifth prime minister... Remember, he is the fifth prime minister of Kosovo. When I say the fifth prime minister of Kosovo, then remember Nebojja Covic and all those who have since 2000 referred to various agreements and stories about our friends, our partners, in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija... You see, these friends and partners made the fifth prime minister in 2008. So they haven't been hiding what their concept is since the beginning. What did he say on January 9th? That the declaration of independence follows in a few weeks, but that independence will not be declared without US approval and most important EU countries. Let me remind you, since most were on those peaceful and dignified protests on February 21st where we were supposed to show as a people and as a state that we disagreed with the abduction of territory, only one was absent, went on a tourist trip to Romania, and then some caused some unrest to demean the gathering... They did similar things after a few months in the Republic Square, but let them think about it. Thank God, there are people who haven't forgotten yet and remember everything that's going on. Now let's talk about that Swiss. You see, Switzerland was headed by those who received asylum seekers in 1990. Some times they said they were asylum seekers, some times they didn't want to define that group of people at all, but it spread there, and there was a very organized drug machine of Albanians. Let me just remind you of some names and some government from the 1980s, late 1990s, Bukoshi, etc., introduced taxes to finance KLAs, independence, etc. It was all done by Switzerland. For several years, Switzerland has been leading another team of states, which wants in every way possible to establish good neighbourly relations between Serbia and Kosovo, under quotes, to transfer as many people as possible from Switzerland to Switzerland. A similar situation is with other EU countries. When they made a decision to lift these visas for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, only those citizens of the Republic of Serbia who had money for scientific, touristic and other stays in Western Europe were involved. So, all they had in mind were the ones who would spend the money. They had no understanding for those who cannot survive in Serbia because in Serbia such an economic structure is, you know, the economic crisis itself, which is being deepened daily, and how much social misery is. The asylum issue is now being raised. They are not political, but socio-economic, seeking refuge, but Western Europe is closing. Don't be surprised, it's not just according to Serbia, which is not an EU member, they have something similar to Romania. Writes say authorities are shaking their feet in Vienna because they can push people out of Serbia, and they already have problems with those from Romania. In Italy, they have long considered that some special legislation to regulate the status of Romanians who are illegally staying, although with a passport valid in the EU, since Romania is an EU member, but they do not know how to deal with these problems. They keep that story. It's a public secret that there are probably 40% more residents in Rome than statistics say. The situation is similar with other European cities. It does not show the EU or each of the countries in particular – well, you had a chance a few days ago to see Mrs from Brussels – some humanity and commitment to human rights. And socially endangered persons should have some human rights. No, they're being sent to Serbia because the Serbs have imposed a quarantine story. Now the point is what our government is doing. How does our government behave? Our government is acting on the system -- a hundred people; as the need appears, so it changes, so Boris Tadic can show up with a mild face, he can show up with an angry face, he can show up and say -- the EU has no alternative, and he doesn't mind to say tomorrow -- Russia is our most important partner, the day after that -- I won't sign anything, and then he says -- we go to the EU, I won't recognise independent Kosovo, we go to the NATO Pact, we have to take care of it, etc. A billion finessa exists in media representation. What is state policy? One is state policy, regardless of these colors and these masks that appear – it remains in power, so can the minus, can and plus, it just takes enough to get a haircut or to look concerned to share your concerns with you. There's such a face that just 24 hours a day a man is just thinking about what's going to happen, what's going to happen. Yesterday, Mirko Cvetkovic filed a report on the government's work, but Miskovic in Kopalnik, not the National Assembly. What about institutions? They shouldn't exist. Only one institution is important, coalition capacity, no National Assembly, so ministers don't matter that much, see for themselves, they can do whatever they want. Local authorities, what are they interested in? To stay in power, to finish the job. How many more years are we going to listen - for European Serbia, for the European Negotin, for the European Pyrot, for the European Arab? It's all European. Do you see what kind of answer comes from that fantasy of yours called Europe? I do not understand how we can conclude an agreement with Switzerland, which has recognised an independent Kosovo. How do we conclude a contract with one France, which among the first to recognise an independent Kosovo? I brought here to read to you what Sarkozy said when he was elected President of the Republic of France, how he sees France, and asylum seekers, and so on. We're the victims. Why? We don't care. We have such a power that doesn't care about the interests of the citizens. What's the interest of the citizens? It is probably or certainly in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Which country in the world is it that because of some deal that would involve thousands of people would sacrifice a part of their territory and then start talking as if nothing had happened? A few days ago, a commission in the US Congress with a vote of 23-22 adopted a motion for a resolution in which Turks were objecting to something they did in 1915 with Armenians, when, by some estimate, a million and a half people were killed, where Barack Obama was asked only this April to address the nation as a genocide. Turkey immediately withdrew its ambassador, there was no need for a government, no need for an action plan, no need for anything, but acted as a serious state. When we need him to react as seriously as the state, our ministers have to go to "the impression of the week" to submit a report, to justify themselves. Who do they justify themselves to? Why are they making excuses? Because they respect the Constitution? They'll have to justify themselves here if they don't respect the Constitution. The constitution must be respected. Switzerland is now organising seminars, including in the framework of the NATO Pact, funding, although it has nothing to do with them, only to find a way to get some citizen back. It is similar with other EU countries. We're going to close agreements with them. Of course, this criticism does not apply to Spain, since it does not recognise independent Kosovo, does not refer to a contract relating to Israel. Israel is a serious country. Whether someone likes or doesn't like their policy and stuff over there, but they're a serious state. They say every step of the way, we're a state. If we as a state hold to our pride, to our dignity, to our interests, everyone will respect us. If we go through this system, readmission, police co-operation... What police co-operation, they expelled 500,000 people from Republika Srpska?- I'm sorry. What would change if there weren't any of these agreements? Nothing. Why? There's an Interpol. How do those in Interpol and these Interpol Member States respect our demands and our warrants? You know, from 17 attempts, they start seriously considering, so they stop at the airport, and they let him go, so they stop him, and they let him go. Chekua from Colombia was brought by the French, so Artemis had to move to get Kouchner to come because he wouldn't pass as Biden. It's all your policy, which destroys this country. This is not a story about the EU, this is not a story about the NATO Pact, this is a story about people who are in power in the Republic of Serbia, who are able to show us any of this agreement as a benefit. For who? How many? Fifteen, twenty thousand? What should we do with hundreds of thousands of those who have been expelled from Kosovo and Metohija? I guess we started a trial before the International Court of Justice for these people and for the state. It's said to be about territory, but it's forgotten about people. Well, I guess some people live in that territory. Here, those who only talk about people, like the EU, are discriminating. We want in the EU those who have money, who will come to show...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36348	Time. Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36349	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament is a place where different political views, the most important and most important place in the country, but it should be done seriously to build our entire society, our institutions and everything else that makes one state. To relate to the presentation of the previous colleague, Israel not only says it is a state, but it shows that it is a state every day. That's what's the difference between them and us. We speak, but often we do not show that we are a state, in many situations. This set of laws is something that, by my deep conviction, is good for the state. It should continue this way, primarily in the fight against organised crime and in order to strengthen institutions, because it is obvious that our institutions are not good. It is good to learn from those countries that have strong institutions, to learn good things and to apply them to us, since it is a fact that institutions do not work with us. It's true, too, that we have a number of different laws here, agreements that we need to talk about in one debate, so I'm going to base myself over these twenty minutes through three parts on these eleven points. I will not look back on some of them, but I have said that they are not controversial and they are necessary for the state of Serbia, but I will say why it is important to sign police co-operation agreements with as many states as possible, especially with countries such as France, and it is also very important, I will also say why, I will sign a police co-operation agreement with the Swiss Confederation and Israel. For the simple reason why, I was already talking about it when we talked about national security strategies, the defence strategy, it's official UN data, 93% of the world's total heroin production is being produced in Afghanistan, and almost 100% of the EU market, including some countries that are not in the EU, such as the mentioned Switzerland, is being conducted by the Albanian mafia, which according to UN data is officially being held as the fourth mafia in force in the world. But these Albanian mafias are not Albanians from Albania, but Albanians from Kosovo and Metohija in 99% of cases, so our citizens, since Kosovo and Metohija are part of the state of Serbia. These are people who, thanks to this money, have been funding Kosovo's independence project for decades back. Of course it is necessary, in all our struggle for Kosovo and Metohija, that we have police co-operation with these countries. I'll tell you that right now in Switzerland and Germany are the bases of these criminal groups that sell Afghan heroin on the EU market. There are three million registered addicts in EU countries. Who knows how many users there are? It is probably a two-digit number, even if Switzerland, which is not in the EU, Norway, is a large country such as Russia, Ukraine, our share of the Balkans, mostly 99% of the market and heroin sales, is controlled precisely by Albanians from Kosovo and Metohija. Then it is no wonder that Afghanistan first recognised Kosovo as an independent state, even before the United States or neighbouring Albania. They did it first, of course, because they're a complementary economy. The most important product from Afghanistan, where more than 100,000 NATO soldiers are now located, is heroin, and tens of thousands of NATO soldiers are in Bondsteel, primarily American, Kosovo and Metohija. You see, they have this connection with the Albanians. The colleagues who are in the delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly of the Pact, which represents Serbia there, know... I am speaking openly about this and your colleagues who are in that delegation can confirm that often MPs from Italy or Switzerland in that delegation agree and support this story and say that this issue should already be resolved once, that they are not sending their soldiers to Afghanistan to protect the production of heroin there, but rather the creation of civil society, but something quite the opposite is happening. That's exactly why it's necessary with Switzerland and Israel, who is fighting against it, because part of that money from the sale of heroin is certainly used against the state of Israel, in the fight of Muslim extremists against the state of Israel... It is therefore necessary to make even more of these agreements, but not just agreements, but also to cooperate. I think as a state, regardless of capacity, strength, economic situation, we have good police and we have to, with all due respect... And I'm going to talk about this cocaine from South America, and it wasn't for the most part for our market, although it's for people from these areas, it's for the Western European market. This question is far more dangerous for us, and I think we'd have to start making maybe whole teams of people who will deal with it and, if necessary, there, in cooperation with these police, smashing up those Ship's drug cartels. Because that way, we will weaken the position of Hashim Thaci and those who rule in Kosovo and Metohija, where the economy does not exist, where unemployment is 80% and where only thanks to the money and political assistance of the states that recognise them are held in power. There is still no social unrest, although in Kosovo and Metohija and Albanians are very unhappy with life. The other part of these laws are these readmission agreements. They are based, as the minister said, on the Law confirming an agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Community on the reading of persons who are illegally staying. I was talking about the extension of the blue passports here. The law was passed under an agreement signed on behalf of the EU by Rui Carlos Pereira and Franco Frattini, and on behalf of Serbia, Dragan Jocic. So much for how this authority is responsible for visa liberalisation, etc. It is something that the state of Serbia has been doing in continuity and the previous two governments have done so and, I repeat, much more what was needed to be done to get to visa liberalisation was done then. Thank God we're here. Of course there will be negative effects, like today, or incidents, that occur. It was with both Romanians and Bulgarians, with all those who either became EU members or had such agreements. What I'm trying to say, which is very important, based on this law, is that, essentially, with only one Member State we now confirm, it's Italy, but we're doing something that matters with Norway and Switzerland. We are obliged under this law, because these countries are also "schengen", to sign something similar with these countries; it is seen at the end of this law, it is well written to recommend that we sign such agreements with these countries, and it is good that we have signed them. However, what is important to say for the whole situation with us now that we are here and when we sign these agreements, and it really is about countries that have recognised Kosovo's independence, so Norway, Switzerland and Italy, as a member of the European Union... But what are the definitions of this law? These agreements allow us to do so. The only question is how will we as a state and this government in some campaign that Kosovo is ours, which we should be doing, not watching a campaign run by the Kosovo government about them being the youngest European state and their videos to appear on all important European televisions... And these same members of the European Union sign agreements with us in which, for example, the definition in Article 1 sub b) says that any person with Serbian citizenship is in accordance with its legislation. So, practically Italy is signing with us, and this agreement we ratify, for it is the citizens of Serbia who are in line with our legislation. So, according to our legislation and those whose residence is in Kosovo and Metohija should return. They're free of their confession. When we talk about whether it's circumstantial, it's direct, there's a little bit of confusion, which, in this case, can suit us, let's say -- wait, how do you admit it? For example, right in Italy, Kosovo was recognised by a failing government, after which elections were called. They were never allowed to enter parliament with that question as a government, and this one also avoids doing so, because they know they would not have the support of parliament. Even the current prime minister of Italy said that, according to the International Court of Justice's decision, by this advisory opinion, Italy might change its view on Kosovo's independence. Let's see if that happens or not. It's hard in these situations, especially if we know what the United States' relationship is to do with it. Why don't we use all of this now and for the purpose of our interest and speak – wait, we sign it, we introduce European standards and we show that we are a responsible state, you sign with us, you sign us, support us to negotiate this status normally, and stand behind it, and not behind unilateral acts. Also, in Article 3, where the readmission of third-country nationals and stateless persons is, we have one position that says: "Serbia will also accept, at the request of a Member State, citizens of the former SFRY who have not acquired any other citizenship and whose place of birth and residence was on 27 April 1992 on Serbian territory." So if he's in Djakovica, he's our citizen because of his residence. This provides for this law, which is valid, as an agreement for both EU Member States and for us. That is why I think it is necessary to ratify this and I think it may even be necessary to move into a faster action, regardless of what someone will say we are spending money in the time of the economic crisis, but that the minister is running a little bit across these EU countries, especially those who have recognised Kosovo and Metohija, and that he is signing these agreements, to ratify them as soon as possible. I say again, and a campaign is needed, where we would explain it to the public, because the public is very important in the West and the citizens and EU Member States. Do you see how some things can change with them when they find out the real truth? You see how suddenly this enthusiasm for fighting in Afghanistan or Iraq is abandoned when they find out the real truth about everything that's going on there and how the growing number of NATO member states pulls back and asks them to pull the soldiers back? The English have big problems explaining to their public why they sent another 500 soldiers there. Barack Obama, who promised to pull the soldiers, now has to explain how he's sending over 40,000 new soldiers to get those 70,000 who were there as soon as possible back to finish the job. That looks a little like this one here for you, the advisors that the president of the state has. I think they rule this country more than he does. There's a rumor from the impossible situation that something is quite good, while the people see that they're getting harder and harder to live, that they're getting lower and lower, and more unemployed. Tomorrow, at the next agenda... Now something that is current, something that is constantly required of Serbia. It's just, I forgot one sentence, this is also important for the work of parliament, related to the Albanian mafia, heroin and everything else. I visited Albania in front of this parliament within the NATO Parliamentary Assembly for three days. There were 13 MPs from all over Europe, we were received like this... I'll file a report to the Foreign Affairs Committee, received by the president of the state, the Prime Minister, the president of the Assembly, the foreign minister, who is supposed to be here today. Otherwise, I'll tell you, that foreign minister in front of me said (Minister, that you know, to check there or when it's spoken to him) that ten, fifteen or twenty days ago he gave 40,000 euros to this Serbian party (liberal or whatever it is called) who is participating in the Kosovo authorities and who are working there, and is receiving below 1% of the votes of the Serbian citizens, to assist the Serbian population. I asked him which Serbian population is helping, whom are they representing, with these 40,000 euros? He ran out of answers, didn't know what the percentage in the election was or how much support the citizens got in those elections. One thing is interesting, on a direct question asked by a fellow MP -- which are security risks for Albania, the defence minister said -- north of Kosovo, because no one controls the territory, so across that territory... We see, counterpart Krasic read, that is not so, the Danube does not go through Kosovo and Albania, of course transit from Afghanistan via Turkey, the Black Sea and the Danube is easier through Romania and Serbia, etc., but not to explain. He said that this territory is dangerous because across this territory, because no one controls it, neither Pristina nor Belgrade, is transiting drugs and people, trafficking in white slaves is practically going, which is total nonsensical and stupidity. It may be a dangerous thing for us, and perhaps one of the things that we should think about, not to happen if KFOR falls there or if I don't know who, Eulex, KFOR, the police, the military, let the north of Kosovo, into these municipalities and say that they've gone after criminals who are dealing drugs across Europe, that it's a way and justification for them to integrate that part into the whole Kosovo society. The one to think about and to be prepared for may already need to be broken in advance. Time's running out. An agreement with Croatia on police co-operation is needed because of this regional co-operation, the fight against crime, which does not know about borders, but we do not have with Montenegro, and yesterday was a heated debate in Montenegro's parliament on this. I can welcome these new arrests of Saric's associates in Serbia, all in line with what I said two weeks ago, when you applauded the Prime Minister here, and the minister, unfortunately, was not present. Turns out everything I was saying was true, and everything the Prime Minister was saying was a mask used by Tijanic after the way he used it, and we saw what was happening with the text messages all this time and what were the reports from that session on Thursday. Again, some Pljevaci, Marinko Vučetic, who was the director of Palic, were arrested. It was all done for Darko Saric. Then Nebojska Jestrovic's apartment, which cannot be found, was then searched, otherwise former director of Future Plus Canet Subotic. The police are doing it, continue "Memphis Action", etc., Anton Stanai who had here... Otherwise, Nebojsa Jestrovic, who escaped, is also Pljevljak and wanted. At the time, I also asked a question for the chief of UBOPK, who was also Pljevljak and was a good friend with Terzic, in our time appointed secretary for security, but is now chief of UBOPK. Whether he's doing the job right or not, that's your part and you'll figure it out. It is obvious that with what I was talking about at the time about "Metals Bank", about Anton Stanaj, arrested, about the First Montenegrin bank of Ace Djukanovic, we are also talking about Milo Djukanovic and Canet, and as soon as those two names are mentioned, there are immediately some politicians who start protecting them and talk about how we should talk about good neighbourly co-operation, and the fight... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Against organized crime, I end up, asking for a lot more. I just want to say in the end that we need to find a political background in all of this. I don't think it's in your cabinet, I never said it here, but I made it clear that because of those who kept the money in that bank, who are trying to make that bank a Vojvodine Development Bank, I made it clear who I'm targeting and where I think there's a political background for all of these involved in the Saric case, Stanaj and all the others...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36350	Thank you. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to inform you that Mr. Veljkovic, Secretary General of RTS, delivered a written notice that today, on Thursday 11 March 2010, due to earlier commitments, RTS will not be able to transfer the session directly from 17.30 p.m. There'll be a delay in the transmission. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) I shall inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: New Serbia, LDP, SPS - JS and SRS. I give my word to the People's Messenger Miletic Mihajlovic. Just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36351	The Honored Presidents, Mr Ministers and Associates from the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the SPS-JS Group discussed the proposed ratification laws, i.e. confirming these agreements concerning readmission and police co-operation, as well as some other areas concerning border co-operation, traffic and driving documents, when it comes to agreement with Spain. We have concluded that we have very important laws ahead of us, which should be supported, because they are in a series of all these activities and documents linking Serbia with other countries and the environment. It is clear that in the last two years, the Ministry of Interior has shown one live activity, great agility and the ability to deal with all the problems and issues that are within the scope of this ministry. On the one hand, on the inside, we have a great efficiency of the Ministry of the Interior in the prevention of crime, the detection of perpetrators, above all, of serious crime in the field of organised crime, as well as other crimes related to arms trafficking, possession of illegal weapons, drug trafficking, people etc. On the other hand, the MUP shows one living activity that the country of Serbia is making a major contribution to the international plan through the integration of our ministry, and action with the activities of ministries from other countries. When it comes to confirming the readmission agreement, we have, above all, a continuation of those activities stemming from the readmission agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the EU signed in the previous period. Of course, the Ministry of Interior has not only existed since June 2008, it certainly existed before. Prior to that, the interior ministry, when other ministers were ministers, produced certain results. If we shed light on this angle about what the Ministry's work is in this period, we think that we can say that this ministry has really made a huge contribution in many areas, in what is the field of work of this ministry, and also on the international agenda. This unique readmission agreement signed with the European Community implies signing a protocol detailing relations between the Republic of Serbia and the member states of the European Community. In that sense, this agreement is with Italy. When it comes to reading and agreements with other countries that do not apply the Schengen regime and do not have that legal, so to speak, Schengen miles, it is the conclusion of an agreement between the Republic of Serbia and those countries on the basis of bilateral relations, but in the same spirit and about the same intention as this previous agreement with the European Community. This shows that the Republic of Serbia is certainly ready for international co-operation, and it is very fruitful in this system of creating certain assumptions and conditions for the wider functioning of the international community, which shows that we are actually part of that international community. There are other agreements concerning police co-operation between Serbia and other countries, as Mr. Minister said in his earlier talks, the criminal world, particularly in the area of organised crime, finds its common language. They connect on various lines and respect and cooperate on very organised principles, so that also brotherhood and unity, which once was a system of values in our region, or in the former SFRY, now exists and arises in this criminal world. In fact, these agreements are pre-warning and are trying to prevent such organisations from acting criminally, which is certainly in the interests of the country, i.e. the Republic of Serbia and other countries. We cannot achieve, achieve certain objectives, or some progress on social, political, economic, legal, etc. if we're not a successful country in the fight against crime. Crime is not closed within the borders of a country. No rigid view of these issues, especially as regards international relations and co-operation with the interior ministries of other countries, is desirable, nor can it produce any major results. I think our Ministry of the Interior shows patience, perseverance, the ability to approach these problems in a rational way, finding reasons to establish co-operation to achieve some higher goals, and certain problems that exist between the Republic of Serbia and some other countries are solved in one, so to speak, continuity. Through the activities and work of the MUP, barriers and obstacles to normalising relations between our countries, i.e. the Republic of Serbia and other countries with which we conclude contracts are practically broken in such a rational way. I would say that the Republic of Serbia has indeed made one progress in the last two years on the EU's approach plan through the creation of certain assumptions that we should be as close and closer as possible. The MAP certainly made a big contribution to this approach. In addition to what it is and what citizens see, our Ministry of the Interior is very resolved, capable, and it has proved, on the internal plan, that it faces various challenges and suppresses crime (of course, it is a permanent job and it will never end), it has shown that it is very capable on this international plan and has made very significant contributions to this visa liberalisation, which has not so fallen from the sky, a whole series of activities and conditions had to be created before that. Indeed, our ministry was very effective there. Through this activity as regards visa liberalisation, but also through the activities of concluding bilateral and other agreements with EU countries and other countries, either our initiative, or our ministry's initiative or the adoption of other ministries of other countries, we have actually shown that Serbia is a respectable country, a credible partner. The creation of such an image has certainly contributed to our ministry. Of course, we're ready to say, and that's the fact that certain problems in this area are possible and these issues can be viewed from multiple angles and from multiple sides. There can always be criticism for any action and any work done by the MUP, as can be found in other ministries. Of course, if we're wrong, we're going to evaluate it to the worst and the darkest, but we certainly have to admit that there's one effect, that one positive energy, which has given visible results in another sense, has been spent. This should be discussed, commended and transmitted from this assembly speaker that a large number of citizens are very positive about the work of the MUP, both in a narrow sense, when it comes to crime prevention, and when it comes to other actions related to the needs of our citizens, as well as what is the international activity of our ministry. Therefore, the SPS - JS Parliamentary Group welcomes such activity and will certainly support these draft laws. We recommend that the MUP needs equal strength and will, as it has done so far, to move on and will certainly contribute to what our citizens and our countries are aiming at. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36352	Twelve minutes and thirty-five seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The People's Messenger, Kenan Hajdarevic, has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36353	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the time of lifting visas for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we received signals from individual representatives of the government as if the EU was a butik in which citizens should enter to solve all their problems. Therefore, Mr Minister, we should not be surprised by the information you have been talking about, about the increased number of asylum seekers from the area of the Republic of Serbia seeking asylum in the EU countries. Countries that have not been successful in their direction, the path of EU integration is precisely those countries that have not realised that the EU is also a value system. Therefore, the LDP is afraid of this mentality that the visa-free regime represents everything, i.e. that we have received a visa-free regime and that we need nothing more like a state and society to work to make this path towards European integration as quickly and clearly as possible. We in the Liberal Democratic Party believe that we should tell citizens that when we talk about visa-free regimes, we are under monitoring and that the speed of our European integration, among other things, depends on this monitoring. For LDP, it is also a wrong strategy – take from the EU money, visas, travel, and we remain the same. Everything can change, just for us to stay the same. Therefore, the peorative concepts "Balkan" and "Balkanac" do not only come from the EU, but, I am afraid, we Balkans sometimes contribute to this peorative concept, because we are doing everything we can to circumvent the rules, we are doing everything we can to seek concessions for a very clear path. If the government sends messages that certain special conditions are needed for the state to achieve European integration, it should not be surprising that citizens expect it personally. If the government believes that an anthem, a guard in front of the Assembly, is sufficient to restore Parliament's dignity, it should not be surprising to the citizens that it is enough to have a one-way ticket for any EU country, so that they are citizens of the EU. I will also say what the position of the Liberal Democratic Party is regarding these draft laws that we are discussing today. The LDP supports these draft laws, i.e. ratification of the agreement. I would particularly like to express the importance of the proposal for a law confirming an agreement between Serbia-Montenegro and BiH on border traffic. Mr. Minister, you said quite well that this agreement should facilitate the lives of the population in the border area. This agreement will mean a lot to the citizens of the Municipality of Priboj, because two-thirds of the municipality's territory is located on the side of a road that passes through BiH, or one-third of the citizens of the Priboj municipality, in order to reach their homes, it has to cross the state border of Serbia and BiH four times. Under this agreement, their life will become much easier and they will be able to live normally, like any citizen in the Republic of Serbia. However, this agreement should not be an excuse for not building an alternative road, i.e. connecting all parts of the Republic of Serbia with municipal centres, i.e. with the centres in which these citizens live. I will take the opportunity, Mr. Minister, when we talk about reading, to ask you some questions concerning those citizens who have been returned to the Republic of Serbia so far under some earlier agreements. As is known, in February last year your government adopted a strategy on reintegration of returnees under the Readmission Agreement. Among other things, it seems to me that the strategy envisions around 160,000,000 dinars to implement all the programmes defined by that strategy. Is there anything done about this, because in LDP we have knowledge from NGOs, such as "Reintegration" from the New Market or some other, that there was nothing of it? We are interested in what about the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who were returned to the Republic of Serbia after 2000, who lived in the area of Kosovo and cannot exercise the right to retire? They received some information, or information from the PIO Fund, that they should have applied by 2001 to continue to receive that pension, however, they were all returned after 2002 and cannot exercise those rights. The education of persons returning to the Readmission Agreement is very problematic. This applies especially to families or children who have been returned during the school year, which is an additional problem. These kids have to fit into our education system, and they can't do that unless they have a proper degree. They can't do that if that diploma isn't nosticized. We come to a situation where children who have been returned through this reading lose at least a year's worth of schooling. If we are talking about health care, there is no health care for all people who have been returned through readmission, that is, the procedure for issuing the necessary documents in order to achieve this healthcare is extremely complicated and is sometimes factually impossible. It is therefore necessary to take a little more care of those people who have already been returned and who need to return through the readmission, in order to enable people to have a decent life here in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36354	Six minutes and thirty-five seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The People's Messenger Milisav Petronijevic has the word. After him, the Messenger of the people Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36355	Your Honor, Madam Vice-President, Mr Minister, representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as soon as I can, I'll only stick to two questions. In view of the fact that we have eleven proposals for the law on the confirmation of international agreements, what is the place and role of the National Assembly, I am particularly giving eight – four on police co-operation and four on readmission, i.e. three on readmission and the fourth on the protocol compared to the already signed readmission agreement. Given that the National Assembly has the opportunity to accept or refuse the confirmation of international agreements, given what they have regulated, what they contain, it is obvious that there is no here, not with us, but in the entire assembly, a dilemma that these agreements should be confirmed. Therefore, in addition to a very comprehensive, detailed explanation with a lot of information provided by the interior minister, we have no specific reason to further explain why we want to confirm this agreement. That's exactly why I wanted to point to two questions. One question is international police co-operation. Should I? Of course you should. As much as the EU and all the countries in Europe are trying to erase the borders, how many years did it take to erase them? They're not even deleted, they're just open. When it comes to organized crime, when it comes to drug trafficking, money laundering, international terrorism, they are, ladies and gentlemen, long ago criminals. There's no limit for them long ago. In order for someone to face it, to engage in the fight against that evil, police co-operation is necessary. Serbia has reason not only to sign an agreement on police co-operation, primarily with neighbouring countries, but with all countries, for the simple reason that Serbia has sent a clear message to Europe that it has decided, state leadership and, above all, the MUP, to engage in the fight against organised crime, drug trafficking, money laundering, international terrorism. It has already been shown in the work, citizens recognize it, support it, Europe recognises it, and Serbia is slowly imposing itself as one of the leaders in the fight against this evil. These are all reasons, so they can deal successfully with the problem, which is why all agreements on police co-operation to be signed should be confirmed and the agreement with all states continued. When it comes to reading, there's only one thing I want to say. Of course, these three agreements refer to countries not covered by the 2007 agreement with the EU, but solve the same matter beyond that. The return of people who are illegally staying in these countries has been organised. The minister has already provided some information, specifically saying how serious this problem is; not only, as I would say, corporateally, when it comes to the return of people, but also how it takes care of everything through the data as much as it is respected and as it is rejected. Just one question, the state of Serbia, the leadership of the state, and above all, the MUP made a huge effort to get the state of Serbia and all its citizens a visa-free regime. Of course, such a regime involves consequences. The one we're facing these days is that people are going to these countries and they're looking for political asylum. It is the right of the country to decide whether it is for political asylum or not, but it is the obligation of the state to show its seriousness in the same degree, in the same proportion as it showed to fight for the visa-free regime, to respect those decisions and to engage and accept them in an organised manner. Otherwise, it would show that she wasn't responsible enough, serious enough when she was earning a visa-free regime. These are two additional reasons I wanted to point out in favour of the need to confirm these agreements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36356	The People's Messenger Sreto Peric has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36357	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, today is the most time it takes to count the agenda points we are discussing in the National Assembly and to state your functions. I'm not saying this insolently, as one of the predecessors said that these laws, or agreements, should not be spoken of insolently; the intention of the SRS MPs is never to talk about any legislative proposal or anything that is being discussed in this high home of perjury, but to speak in a way that our citizens can benefit. Mr. Minister, I must say, you do not belong to a political organisation whose password was "Serbia will not bend". Well, you're not just a member of that political party, you're also its president. When these agreements are read to conclude that Serbia is not bending, but kneeling, and for what? When it comes to these readmission agreements, you have not said in any word or sentence how many foreign citizens, to be more precise, from Switzerland, Croatia, Norway and Italy, should be covered by the readmission process towards their countries, that the requesting state should be Serbia. None, probably. And in the text of the agreement there are as many members who are committed to Serbia's obligations to accept its citizens as many members in which it is imposed through these agreements to accept its members from Serbia. Gentlemen, that should point to something. Serbia, you are not responsible, Mr. Minister, for the complete situation, is not only interesting to your citizens, but also to others. Of course, not everyone. Nobody runs into Serbia. On the previous day, we had a law on amnesty, about avoiding military service, and you can see that it is not just about leaving Serbia because of the avoidance of the obligation, but because of the way and the conditions of life. There are a large number of unemployed and something is trying to represent itself as an economic category. I think in a fantastic good way, counterpart Krasic managed to explain when EU members allowed political asylum and when not. The moment these same citizens were supposed to show them how human rights are being violated in Serbia, then they were wide open doors, and now that they want to show something else and get rid of them, then those rules are no longer in force. If only a superficial reading, a police co-operation agreement, a readmission agreement, could then be asked a question – is there anyone in this House that will not vote for these proposals? Of course there is, because things aren't as simple as they look at first. You, Mr. Minister, are certain that those citizens who are to come to Serbia do not want it with their own will, but are simply forced to do so. These countries that have been their refuge for many years do not want to have such citizens in their own countries anymore. We've now taken it as a commitment. Police co-operation – we are absolutely in agreement with all colleagues who say that crime knows no borders, it seems to me that there is a better connection and a better rope than between our police and the states with which we have good co-operation and with our friendly states. But in no way can I accept the fact that for the sake of good, friendly relations with Croatia we should bring such an agreement, because the fact that 500,000 Serbs are expelled from that country and indicates that we do not have good relations with them. The fact is that leaving the president days before his term ended in the most brutal way spit in the face of Serbian and Serbian authorities when he freed a war criminal, or pardoned him in a year's prison sentence. Then some of our statesmen said, or ministers, that I should be – well, that's the president's personal position. It can't be that president's personal position. This is the attitude of state policy towards Serbia. We'd have to wonder why they're doing it. For this reason, I must say, the flimsy and insufficiently energetic policy to be led by the government of this country, and I'm going to show you this in one agreement that the minister has given a little attention to. However, here it says that this agreement will represent the foreign minister, but when I said that it takes the most time to count the agenda points and your functions, I really didn't mean "murder," it gives us the right to do so, and it leaves us the opportunity to open up some of the issues that are in the most direct connection with these proposals, and perhaps you as interior minister would not be able to answer those questions. When it comes to the reciprocal recognition of national driving licences with Spain, we will certainly vote for the agreement. You have already been told by a representative of the Serbian Radical Party that this should also apply to Italy. I think that Slovenia is also one of the countries where there is a large or slightly larger number of our citizens working there, working as drivers, that should be done as well. The agreement on determining border crossings between Serbia-Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina is something you have explained with only one sentence. It is the agreement that states that the agreement, on behalf of the government, will represent Vuk Jeremic, foreign minister. It is an agreement signed in Sarajevo on 24 February 2005. It is said to be signed in the original in the Serbian language and official languages of the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in Croatian, Bosnian, perhaps Sarajevo, because it was signed in Sarajevo. When are we going to start defending the language of our country and does anyone who runs this country even think about it? There are practical problems here. Minister, you may not be in progress, but someone had to know, and I will present several border crossings, such as Love, Bratunac and Bajina Basta – Skelani. We have this situation that due to the customs of goods... I'm telling you this specifically, from practice. There's a concrete element factory in Baja's garden. The funds from the donation were used to electrify the Skelani area and other rural sites in the Srebrenica municipality. There is a concrete pillar factory in Baja Basta, customs duties are carried out in Užica and the transport of these pillars must be carried out across the border crossing in Karakai. I don't want to make a mistake right now, but it's over 100 miles there, and this is only a few miles. It's a similar situation with agricultural products when it comes to raspberries. Customs must also be carried out in Uzic, if it goes from Baji's Garden to Srebrenica or Bratunac to a freezer, or perhaps from Zvornik to Baja's Garden. When that relationship, after a hundred kilometers of harvesting all day, crossed that agricultural product, it changed its aggregate state. Let me remind you, local self-government is in agreement with this problem being solved. Among other things, the president of the Baja Basta municipality is a man who is a member of the SPS, but citizens think local self-government can do a lot of things, and then there is a gap. Now you see how well-intentioned we are, we point to something that is a life problem, not taking care of political belongings. That in the end line, when we talk about the needs of citizens, it doesn't matter to us at all. A large number of people living in Baja's Garden are from Skelano. They have houses in both Baja Garden and Skelane, they have double citizenship, but they can't even have agricultural products for their own purposes to carry, not even wood for heating. Sometimes it's a matter of officials working there, whether they see it or not. It can't be said that they abuse their position, but very often they can't react properly and then there are some problems. Maybe that double commission standing here in the agreement could solve it this way... For five years, this agreement has been applied. It seems to me that some things have been more practical since 1992, when member states, and I mean Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia, have been one-sided decisions to solve these problems, that they have been better resolved than they are now. If it is not possible to react immediately, then within the next month or two. As the first Deputy Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, you can certainly ask that question in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and address it. Then you could tell those representatives who have enough to show up, that their colleagues or the heads of political parties on behalf of the government represent these legal proposals, so that they can talk about it all the best... Your concrete activity, good or bad, is shown and it is assessed by the citizens of Serbia, and the objective of the Serbian Radical Party MPs is to show that they want to improve legal proposals and that they are really being brought about for their lives, not for their very form. I must once again point out that the territory of the Republic of Serbia, more precisely its 15% is not quite seriously endangered and that it can become more unacceptable, at least in external representation and for the government's own representatives, might not be sending such messages from other countries. Those who wonder when the government has made a decision to change its commitment to what is more important, whether Kosovo and Metohija, whether the EU, just to remind myself that in 2006, this National Assembly confirmed and the citizens voted mostly, the Constitution, which, with its preamble, said that Kosovo and Metohija were an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. Both the Constitution and the Constitution for the SRS and the citizens of Serbia, and above all for the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija, will always remain so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36358	Twelve minutes and fifteen seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The People's MP Mirko Munjic has the word, followed by the MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36359	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, in this address within the framework of a joint single search on these draft laws, I will refer to these draft laws relating to the reading. I tried to listen carefully to what you said about these bill proposals, about these protocols that are being concluded with certain states, about the reading. You said that the basic intention in completing these protocols and agreements with certain states on readmission is to curb illegal residence. In the context of your presentation, I have not been able to see one principle of reciprocity in relation to some of the citizens of other countries in Serbia, whether there are, how many there are, and if there are, whether they are the subject or subject of the reading of those countries. Furthermore, I would like to expand perhaps what you said, the intention of curbing illegal stay, to something else – not just illegal stay, but illegal action. You know, illegal stay can be a milder category of that basis for the conclusion of a protocol or readmission agreement. If we include illegal activity here, I think there's a basis for something else. I am sure, Mr Minister, that you, as the first man of the Ministry you run, have certain operational data, for example, related to these illegal activities, about certain persons from some countries that, under the auspices of some European Commissions, are making a list of the property of some of the public enterprises in Serbia for the purposes of these European Commissions, which does not concern the property of these large public enterprises that have not yet been sold, but some others, and even public enterprises, perhaps at first glances of minor and small local self-government. I'm sure there's something completely different behind this, but I think in some operational knowledge and data, which you as a minister and your ministry should have in relation to this, you'll probably come up with the fact that it's done. You said that in November 2006, negotiations began, that on 1 January 2008, the Readmission Agreement entered into force and the protocols on the readmission are now being concluded. You have read one retrospective of the completed protocols, as well as the negotiations that are currently being held regarding the alignment of the text of the protocol with some states. You said something about the costs, as well as the reading of our citizens who are Albanian citizens, who, you say, go directly to Kosovo and Metohija, and those who are not Albanian citizens can choose whether to go to Kosovo and Metohija or to another location or to another part of Serbia. Of the 2,191 demands, as you said, 1,423 demands that the state of Serbia has positively resolved these countries' claims. I'd go back a few years, Mr. Minister, not to parallel some of the reading cases that were done during that period of the 1990s with this period of reading today, but just to see if there is one, if not the general then individual prevention of some individuals who may be the subject of observation, the subject of your ministry's operational research. Do you have operational data on some of the readings, or some of the deportations made during that period, especially in 1993, 1994 and 1995? You know that some countries have accepted certain persons, that even some people in some camps are trained, trained, so when they become ballast in some countries, they are then deported to new territory. Is it in these readings done by Western European countries on our territory, especially Kosovo and Metohija, when the then citizens of our country were returned, were there any serious criminals among them? Do you have any operational data on how many such criminals there were then, how many Shipatarian terrorists and separatists among them? Are they operationally processed? Are they all freely returned to the territory of today’s country or have some been arrested after the finished reading? Do you know how many crimes our citizens then committed, especially against police and military? I'm saying this not to pull the parallel in some situations, but simply to do some special prevention against certain individuals who are subject to today's reading. Is there good co-operation and exchange of operational data with the countries in which the reading is done now when the reading process is carried out? This last question may be relevant when considering, for example, Article 3. The proposal for an agreement, here I took, between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Norway on readmission, which says that Serbia accepts, on the grounds of Norway and without any other formalities, other than those established by this Agreement, all third-country nationals or non-citizens if it is proved that those persons possessed or owned a valid visa or residence permit issued by Serbia or entered illegally and directly into the territory of Norway after they were resident or transited through the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Minister, is there a great need in this case for the exchange of operational information on these persons? The second question is, is there a possibility within this group of faces for a very extensive, broad interpretation that all these faces fall under these faces that will be the subject of the reading? Mr. Minister, over the past five years, Serbia has been perceived by the countries of Western and northern Europe as a problem country, as regards these migration flows. There are entire studies in Western and northern European countries that have tried to answer only one question – what is the probability of Serbian citizens seeking asylum in those countries. According to the results of the studies that I could come up with, in the countries of Western and northern Europe that did these research we are, Mr. Minister, in the "excellent" second place, right behind China. If the population of the Republic of China is taken into account and how many such people are making migration, I think we're really getting closer here to the first place in this. Always after that large number of asylum requests by one country's citizens, one of the two solutions is possible: one solution is to impose a visa regime, and the other is to read the mission. Among asylum seekers from Serbia, according to data I could find, about 37% of the requirements were filed by Albanians, about 43% of the requests were filed by Roma, and about 2.5% of the requests were filed by Serbs; there are also Askalia and some others, however, these are data that are considered very minor. This puts the biggest problem in terms of acceptance, accommodation and care of persons who are subjects of the readmission. It's something nobody really paid attention to. First, Serbia, as we know, has one constitutional restriction that concerns both persons who are citizens of the Republic of Serbia here and persons who are subject to the readmission, and this is the right to a travel document, unlike, for example, the Republic of Romania, which, in one period of its history, has allowed itself to restrict the right to issue travel documents. In the section "The financial resources needed to implement the law", the proponent says no special financial resources are needed to implement this law from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Mr. Minister, are these financial resources not needed because they are not specifically foreseen by the budget of the Republic of Serbia for these purposes; are they not needed for any other reason, that the budget, according to the president of the state, is quite slow (we heard that he recently said he was not satisfied that the full budget of the Republic of Serbia) so there really is no money for these purposes, or is there no money for anyone who is a reader or simply these people are left to themselves, so let them know how they know and know? We know how the basic costs will be settled, that's what you said, and I'm not sure how everything else is going to happen. How reliable are the figures on the number of persons to be returned to the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Minister? Is that multiplying by some factor? Is that those numbers that show statistics, or is that maybe a factor of two, three that multiplys by that basic number? Mr. Minister, I'm asking if there are reliable data on the health condition of these persons? Did your ministry in this regard co-operate with other ministries, resolute, to which this is a fundamental problem? So, what is the health status of all these people who, through reading, need to return to the territory of the Republic of Serbia? Furthermore, how many of these faces are children, pregnant women, maternity parents, etc.? I ask one question, Mr Minister: has the Strategy on the reintegration of returnees been brought under direct pressure and as a condition of European integration? One of the last questions I want to ask you in the context of my address – have any donations been received for the implementation of this strategy? If so, how much funding has been received from donations and how much has gone from the Republic of Serbia's budget to implement this strategy, given the circumstances? So I'm asking this only because, when it was the agenda theme, over 80% of the funding will go out of donations, and only 20% of the funds will be provided from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Those are some open questions I'd like to hear the answers to, and I hope to hear them from you today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36360	Fifteen minutes has been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. He's not present. ) National MP Aleksandar Martinovic. He's not present. ) National MP Petar Jojic. He's not present. ) National MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36361	Excuse me, how much time do I have? (President: 40 minutes is available to the SRS parliamentary group. It's just a good time for the citizens to understand what it's all about. Of course, I'll try to explain it, so we know what it's all about, what we can expect. You know, wisdom is needed, in politics especially, but anyone who deals with politics must also show an elementary intelligence. If we don't go further into those definitions, then let's accept that layman, and that's the ability and ability of a man to cope with a given situation based on experience. That is what one says, “Whom a snake burns and a lizard is afraid of. ” Branko Ćopić knew that he said "I know you" to show that there is no room for improvisation. You know, it says, same target, same distance. You are - we are. Of course, today I only have a duty to remind myself, not to deal with anything new, or to announce what would happen if it were, what can we expect. So far, however, it's always been that way, if not for two months, then in half a year or a year. And today we're at those agenda points that we've been talking about all these years. As far as I'm concerned, I've spoken since 2001 or, to be precise, of that devastating move when the SRJ filed a request to be admitted as a new member state to the UN, because someone then told the leadership that there would be problems with the US elections in January 2001, and that decision to put out of force the suspension of our membership in the UN would little wait and then should follow a new law. You remember that Svilanovic went to be present at the time when the flag was raised outside the UN building. The first state to join to help, reportedly Serbia, was Switzerland. I remember they approved large funds, which allowed us to have some rights in the IMF and on the basis of the funds. You can see for yourself that there is one continuity. If you ask these people in the local self-government where the Swiss government or some Swiss city donated assistance, you have the opportunity to hear one explanation – we are told that we have to get involved, even though we are not members of either the UN or the NATO Pact, etc. The attitude of Norway was similar. Of course, it leads to that part about the NATO Pact. For years, Norway has been this transmission, our relationship to the NATO Pact. Let each draw a conclusion on the presence of individual companies from individual EU countries in the sectoral policies of the Republic of Serbia: telecommunications, steel, not to be directed further. It's probably not hard to figure out what the system is about. Of course, this isn't a conspiracy theory, it's just work, it doesn't exist. When it comes to the Balkans, when it comes to Serbia, it does not exist, you know. Let's take an example of Switzerland. I'm reading their data again; if anyone thinks they can challenge something, then they'll probably have a conversation with the Swiss state. How does Switzerland recognise countries? I'm saying this because of independent Kosovo, and Switzerland is one of the first to admit it. He says: “Recognition of foreign states is under the jurisdiction of the federal government of Switzerland. In the process, Switzerland is managed by a doctrine of three elements, which implies that the state must have a permanent population, defined territory and authorities of the state administration." These are the criteria that Switzerland applies when deciding whether to recognise a new state. It's not hard to conclude, it's taught in the first year of law school, with two other conditions that were derived from these three basics. It says – this doctrine is based on the Montevideo Convention on the Rights and Obligations of States, and this Convention was adopted in 1933. The United States, signatories, has adopted criteria that must be met by some countries to be recognised as such. Given that recognised governments must have the ability to implement a certain state administration, Switzerland is largely reserved according to government recognition, rather than state recognition. That's one, if I may say so, standard that would have to apply all states. I do not want to talk further about the UN Charter and other documents, especially these European documents, which regulate borders, peace and stability in Europe etc. It's all on our side. So there's no regrets. However, practice is a little different. It says: “The act of recognition is carried out by delivering a written decision to the competent institutions of the newly recognised State. ” That's what Switzerland did, that's what France did, that's what Norway did. They're the subject of my interest today. They all did it. As far as Europe is concerned, it is not only Romania, Greece (although Greece recognises the passport of an independent state of Kosovo for some of its reasons), Cyprus, Slovakia and Spain. Twenty-two states say Kosovo is an independent state. Almost everyone has also given their opinion in this procedure before the International Court of Justice, where they dispute what we are asking for to be established. The independent countries of Kosovo are on the side. The European Union is funding Eulex, financing the kidnapping of part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The European Union, first its predecessor, and later the European Union, has never received anyone as half a state and has not given anyone the condition that they must give up the works of their territory, but have received complete states. Imagine, people, in 1989, only Germany united, and all these other countries that were not within the European Community were divided, the most brutal former SFRY, by intervention on the side. Similarly, they tried to do with the Soviet Union, and they did in part. Today we have two European processes in place. The first process – there are no customs duties between EU Member States. And this Brussels guy is asking us to put customs between Serbia and BiH. Once again, we should call on that 1989 experience, someone's uniting together, the other space has split, atomized the capillaries, every village's lice. He says, "When we break you down, then we will gather you together." There are no borders between Austria and Slovenia, between Hungary and Austria there are no borders. This is where the boundaries are made. Where are they made? At the Drina. It is still funded by the European funds of government in the Republic of Serbia that these customs cross modern equipment, that even birds cannot fly through, as they say. Just nothing. A few hundred miles west, it's coming off. You saw last year the Slovenians removed the containers and customs stations, as they say. Europe has a double archin. Something is true for them, for what they have limited as their own, and the other is true for this territory where they need to be controlled by the crisis. It won't work out here. There's got to be a crisis here all the time. As far as she's going to be, it's not up to us, it's up to Washington and Brussels, and everybody knows it. Twenty more years can go with a password -- for European Serbia, for European Arandelovac, for European Pirot, for European Selicevic, for European Morava, Žitoraju... All that can go, but what's honest, what's real? If there's any doubt, there's some steam going on, there's some steam going on, there's no need to swim. Let's see what Sarkozy says. What did he do in 2005, when he was supposed to get his ratings up? He pushed through measures to stop global immigration while promoting the integration of qualified workers into French society. These 45, who went there because of their empty stomachs, believing in the passport and what the EU said, are not qualified for the kind of work they need there and are therefore returned, so they will all return. In January 2007, what did Mr. Sarkozy say? During the campaign, he pledged that corruption and nepotism in the country would be replaced by an impeccable republic. What else did he say - I will fight for a Europe that protects, because the European ideal is to protect the citizens of Europe. That's the concept of supremacy now. And citizens of Europe who want to live a little better cannot live in Western Europe must come to Serbia. At the next stage, there's probably going to be another kind of constituency here, so I don't use another word. Why? Because we have a power that fits into everything. To remain in power of real and unnatural coalitions, it doesn't matter what happened a few years ago, who called who, who swore to what, who went to the polls with which platform, that doesn't matter at all. Because a citizen doesn't exist as a political entity long ago, he exists as a subject of media manipulation. When this comes together, the main argument appears in the lack of arguments – we have 126, we can finish, you don't like it, but this is all on the verge of European integration. The answer comes immediately, as a kind of mirage. Of course, people need not be cut off from hope, faith, or will. Everyone is at their disposal, everyone has a legitimate right to hope for something good, to love something, to expect something. It's an individual sense of each individual, but we as a collectiveity have to take care of something called the Constitution, which is called the state, which is called political, national, all other interests. We must expect those who exercise power to finally do something for the citizens. Today, no one is asking for anything spectacular, but for tomorrow to be at least better for a prominence than today and so slowly rising and the people, and the economy, and the economy and all this. But we're getting the wrong messages. There is fear here, from a session of the National Assembly to a session of the National Assembly. The institution is being demeaned here, the Constitution is being demeaned, everything is being demeaned here. Why? To say -- there's someone above, it's all politics, apparently. Like you said ten years ago, real politics needs to be run. Here's the real policy, I read, no line is copyrighted, I'm just reading what the EU said, what the EU expects, what it intends to do – it intends to kidnap Kosovo. They know it can't be legally completed in a perfect way and they're looking for an accomplice here who will clearly, loudly or silently admit it. Well, I'm criticizing that in these agreements I see a silent agreement to make a confession. No one here is against the fight against crime. We're all up for it. In this room, no one is in favour of our citizens illegally staying abroad and passing on to Western Europe a variety of stories, even the disdaining ones, that cancel and threaten the dignity of this people and this country, but we need to find some minimum. Probably the Constitution contains what's minimal. It doesn't matter if you go to a conference and be in the same room with a representative of the Kosovo state. For the sake of the public, I must say, we should commend the National Assembly. When delegations went to international meetings, they always conditioned the organisers of the rally that independent Kosovo could not be present, but KFOR, UNMIK, is not an important name, so when their alleged representative comes out to talk nicely, we go out, and who smokes and who doesn't smoke. With a consistent action, we make it clear that we represent the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and that we do not deal with it, and we expect it from the state, we expect the representatives of the authorities to do so. It is a clear message to both those abroad and a clear message to the National Assembly that the executive authority respects the Constitution and the law and a clear message to each of our citizens to know what is worth, what is valued in the state. These delegations were different political compositions, but I really must commend – let's all get together and go outside, demonstrate that we do not recognise independent Kosovo. At that point, we can do it. Not to say that we will tell the organizer in an announcement – we will come, but if those terrorists who are allegedly MPs or MPs of the independent state of Kosovo come, we will not participate. Then they change their plates, so they do something, something they're in some trouble, but it's their pain because they designed such a system. You cannot participate in certain gatherings when Americans call as guests and Taliban and those from an independent state of Kosovo. It's a different story, but they're under the U.S. We have to demonstrate that at every step of the way. That's why we won't vote for some agreements, because it seems totally weird to us. We asked for the support of the UN General Assembly. Many states have given us support to go to the International Court of Justice. What kind of message do we send to those countries that helped us, who supported us if we enter these co-productions? These are international contracts which, by the act of ratification, become part of our internal legal order. That's the problem. There are international conventions, and there is this situation that we are members of some international organisations, where we are bound by some general rules, which regulate this matter among other things. That's not the problem. But if we go to an act of ratification with a state that has shown that it is not exactly a friend to the Republic of Serbia, please... Or move this out of the agenda, and let's make our de jure confession into a de facto, and in the next step let's pull those recognitions of an independent Kosovo, so we can go as real friends to make those bilateral contracts, where we need to deepen something that's regulated by international standards. This is how we run in front of the ore. This is how we insult those who have given us support. This is how we question the five countries that support us in the EU. We're questioning... To remind you, a few years ago, it seems to me in 2006, the same situation was so uncontrollable, undefined, in the National Assembly. The Russians have made it clear: aman, sit down, hold a session of the National Assembly, bring a declaration, write down what you want, so that we may know what to represent in the Security Council and elsewhere. That's what happened. When we reached some agreement and said – it is a minimum, then the great Russia was behind it. She also accepted China, accepted other states. Just to remind you of another piece of information already historical -- on February 17th, an independent Kosovo was declared. A Security Council meeting is scheduled at Russia's request. Two sessions were held. There was no conclusion. This other one's been cut off. They're blocking the big ones. Why'd they block it? Because the idea of Eulex may be incentivising, it certainly stems from Brussels, but it was then quietly accepted by the authorities in Serbia. We finally heard in December 2008 a confession that this state approved the Eulex mission. Then, after a few months, we hear the Minister for Kosovo and Metohija, who behaves as a galuator for the northern part of Kosovo, that he is unhappy with the Eulex mission, because it is supposed to be statusally neutral. How can it be statusally neutral when it is called strengthening the legal capacity of the state of Kosovo? How can it be neutral? What are we doing? What's this government doing? Where's that last line of defense we won't go under? Is she real? I'm giving you an example of these few agreements. I gave you a picturesque example: Slovenia is moving the border crossings, Serbia is making border crossings, and we have a commitment to special and parallel relations with Republika Srpska. That's interesting stuff. It's now that story of a thousand and something of a face. Any face can be an attractive face of power if the media is well processed. If you say so - here we have to, thanks to that we get a loan. Where this loan is going to go, nobody cares anymore. And there will be a promise: there will be employment. I hope no one resents me here in the O.R. or those who follow this transmission. Look, we have a situation where a political party says -- free actions worth a thousand euros. Then the extra-parliamentary ones, who say we are before you for Europe, will be 2,000 euros. And we radicals to say -- we accept that, but we guarantee 3,000 euros. Tell me, what's real of it? Not 1,000, not 2,000, not 3,000, but you made a magic formula about it. Or, when they ask what you are different from Boris Tadic, he says, "I'll take us twice as quickly to Europe." We'll take you to Europe three times faster, but it's not up to us, people. It's not up to us. It depends on some others, on their interests and what they want to do with this space. Can this space be fought for the right to live? With this kind of policy, we can't. We can't. The problem is our policy. The problem is our government. If this government doesn't have its dignity, if this country doesn't have its dignity, if dignity is annulled in the National Assembly, where it's to be said openly about all the problems... We have a tendency to announce the topic in two months, then the theme ends through the media and comes to the National Assembly; as our people would say, out of nowhere, everything is heard. If anything is said, they block there, B92, Tijanic, the tycoons hold these printed media. There isn't. There are no words, and then the NGO immediately starts, and the transparent Serbia, and this one, and this one, pulls out some prominence, makes it an elephant and finishes the job. What about the people? What about the citizens? What's the message to them? What are they hoping for? Local elections every fifteen days? Because as long as there's local elections, there's something going on. What? Who's gonna get the job? The ones that bring money from abroad? You know what you've been doing. Says -- the Greenfield investment, came from a foreign investor. The state tells a foreign investor – for each employee you get 2,000 euros from the budget. What good do we have from that side of the investment? We don't, we only have the damage. It takes 200,000 to get a job. How many of them did you fire? Two years' pensions don't comply according to the law. They don't comply under the law. You know, this kind of reminds me of the end of 1993. You're younger, so maybe you weren't interested in those things. At the end of 1993, it was the general chaos with inflation. (President: National MP, with full understanding that different types of agreements involve different arguments, I would really ask you to speak a little closer on agenda topics, because you have now connected NGOs and in 1993. So, eleven agreements are ahead of us, so the parliamentary obligation is the agenda. ) In 1993 there were no NGOs, Mrs. Komic, so you know. (President: People's MP, I listen very carefully to you. In the last minute and forty-five seconds you have brought into contact with NGOs, economic and social status of the population and in 1993. At that moment I asked you and I ask you once again to return to respect for the Rules of Procedure and to the points of the agenda. All right. Let's see what's going to benefit from these agreements that are ratified. It's no use. No agreement brings money. So far, you've said that we have to conclude an agreement – grab it, so much money will come to the country. He's not here, he's not coming. There's no money coming. The only good thing about it is that it's gonna happen in Spain with driver's licenses. It is a good thing that Israel represents our position for its own interests when it comes to independent Kosovo and Metohija. All this other stuff is, as far as I can tell, bad. As far as I can tell, it's bad. Why could we, by bilateral agreement, improve co-operation with a state when we're a member of Interpol? Don't we recognize that, Interpol? Or aren't we satisfied with what's going on over Interpol? Just to remind you, Croatia has a famous member of its constitution that prohibits any integration that might resemble the former SFRY. Croatia has been banned from entering anything that might look like the former SFRY. Whether someone likes it or doesn't like it, but it's written in their constitution and they stick to it. You know, there's now an action going on that some international standards and international contracts are going to solve the issue of extradition in another way, that more citizenship and the notion of sovereignty have no meaning today. Consider whether you can protect the interests of the Republic of Serbia in the fight against crime. It's not about protecting criminals, it's about fighting crime. Remember that due to good neighbourly relations between Macedonia and Montenegro immediately after the General Assembly's decision, Kosovo's independence was recognised, diplomatic presidencys opened, a passport was recognised. The question arises – what kind of environment do we live in and what security do we have? You know very well, Mr Dacic, what influences Serbia, which come from the territory of this and this kind of Milos of Montenegro, have long suffered these bad influences. I can remind you, for example, on December 1996, when Cane brought five hundred thousand marks to improve the opposition's impediment. He boasted, it was his greatest contribution to the development of democracy, to whom he gave money and why he gave money on whose orders. It's all part of history, it's all written down, it can't change, it's facts. It's all facts. It's similar today. Why? Because we don't have that policy, that's our problem. We don't have a policy that takes care of the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but we already have one of the most common policies, where everyone goes to someone who's a factor abroad, because there's a psychosis here that everything that comes from the West is good, absolutely everything that comes from there is good. In that race to get there as soon as possible, and nothing depends on us, we have the negatives, not to go any further, just to get those economic and social indicators. A few days ago, you heard what the demographics said, 700,000 of the population of the Republic of Serbia will be reduced by several years. Why? What has been done to restore trust in the state, the government, to give hope to citizens, to show them direction, to tell them what is socially useful, what the state supports, what will the state fund? Where's that direction? He's gone. Citizens can't concentrate. Studies say that 76% are afraid of poverty, 67% are afraid of losing their jobs, that I don't order further those high percentages and black hunches. No one will come on the side to fix it if we, the National Assembly, government in some system that can understand what the interests of this people are and commit itself to solving the interests of this people. How much of this country has made international agreements, bilateral contracts, how much is it in debt? You know, in order to calm down, to ensure some stability, and they've been boasting since 2008 that stability has been achieved, they say, in the Western Balkans territory, good neighbourly relations should be developed and that's all settled; this space has been demilitated long ago, it's economically degraded, no one can even rise. We're probably even in trouble, we're running this honored circle that's going to be a little richer than a neighbor, these politicians are racing, they say -- a leader in Europe, a leader in the Balkans, some empty stories. What's the effect? Is the people satisfied? Is it working anymore? Is it being exported anymore? Is it a better standard of living? Or is it just fear? We'll only have damage from these agreements. What damage will we have? By accepting these agreements with these states that have recognised independent Kosovo, we are sending a message to everyone that we are insecure in what we are asking for to decide by the International Court of Justice, that as a state we are not sure of what we are looking for and that because of some of the small interests of some people in power, we are able to accept everything and everything and that the government does not care at all what the fundamental interests of people and citizens are. That's why we're not voting for this group of agreements. We're making customs. We're making this hard customs line, and they're stripping in Europe. Remember, Germany is united, the former SFRY has broken up and quite a bit of the Soviet Union. How can two different processes come from the same kitchen? Of course, I don't expect answers to these questions, because here and there's no rational answer, I just expect the people, to see what their real interests are, what they want, what they want, what they want to develop Serbia, to think about, to think about their family, about their children, about their grandchildren, about what's going to happen in a few years on this territory, who's going to live here, how long they're going to live here, how long they're going to suffer this humiliation, and, if possible, that we all contribute to the next election to get better power, not a government that's going to promise a lot, but a government that's going to act and to improve the situation and situation in our country. Mrs. Komic, if I've made a mistake, I apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36362	Seven more minutes is available. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36363	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. In these few minutes, as long as it remains for our parliamentary group, I will use the language of the figures to document Mr Dacic and his associates to whom this bill on the confirmation of the agreement between the government of Serbia and the government of Croatia on police co-operation is problematic. As you know, Mr. Minister, Croatia and Serbia have many problems in their bilateral relations. One side of the problem is economic – only ten Serbian companies operate in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and over 200 Croatian firms work in Serbia. About the same kind of imbalance on the part of Serbia exists when it comes to the so-called. Police cooperation. Since March 2001, the Bureau of Interpol Zagreb has started calling out warrants for Serbs and former JNA members. Practically today, Mr. Minister, from the second to the ninth Interpol zone in the world lasts hunting for Serbs, all those who participated in any kind of armed conflict in the territory of the former Yugoslavia, i.e. in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and in the territory of Republika Srpska. By the end of 2006, about 160 Serbs were put on the Croatian Interpol warrant, with at least 55 already being arrested, five in Hungary, four in Germany, three in Bulgaria, three in Norway, three in Switzerland, 16 in BiH, three in the United States, six in Austria, three in Greece, two in England, two in Croatia, and one person in Canada, Macedonia, Belgium, Australia and Russia, of which 16 were extradited to Croatia. According to the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Croatia from May 2004, between 1991 and the end of 2003, 4,721 persons were reported for the crimes of war crimes in Croatia, with the largest number of Serb people, of course. Of this, 1,730 were charged, 804 were convicted, and 104 were released or the indictment was dropped. You certainly know, Mr. Minister, that in Serbia no Croatian or Croatian citizen has been charged with crimes committed against Serb people in the territory of Republika Srpska. To make evil bigger, there are few in Croatia who were responsible for these war crimes. You know, Mr. Minister, that Croatia has committed a large number of crimes against the Serb people in its continuity from 1991 to 1995. This sad chronology looks about like this: the first major mass pogrom occurred in western Slavonia in the fall of 1991. There is absolutely no verdict, nor is there any criminal action against those responsible for the devastation of dozens of Serb villages in western Slavonia. As for the crime in Gospić, Mirko Norac and Tihomir Oreskovic were sentenced to minor sentences in autumn 1991. The process is, of course, conducted in Croatia, and both publicly and secretly these two are glorified as national heroes, so-called national heroes. Homeland war. When it comes to the crime on the Miljevac plateau, where around 50 Serbs were killed in June 1992, there is absolutely no verdict, nor any criminal procedure being conducted. There is no verdict, Mr. Minister, nor is a criminal case against those responsible for the Croatian Army's operation in the Ravni Kotars in January 1993, when mass crimes were committed in the area of Maslenica, Peruca and Mali Alan, when around 300 Serbs were killed. For a crime in Operation Medak's pocket, the destruction of Serbian villages Divoselo, Chitluk, Ornica and Pocilj in September 1993, when at least 100 Serbs were killed, Mirko Norac was sentenced to seven years in prison, while General Rahim Ademi was released. When it comes to the 1995 "Blash" and "Storm" crimes, when more than 300 Serbs were killed, there is absolutely no verdict, no criminal procedure is being conducted, and when it comes to the August 1995 military-police operation "Storm", when at least 2,000 Serbs were killed, and hundreds of thousands were expelled from their centuries-old hearth, criminal proceedings against several Croatian generals in The Hague are being conducted, which is being tried only for about 150 Serb victims and one third of the occupied territory of Republika Srpska. I think, Mr. Minister, that you will agree with me that it is high time for Serbia to become aware that such police co-operation with Croatia is absolutely to the detriment of Serbia and to the harm of the Serb people who remain in Croatia. The Croatian state has hypocritically called on the expelled Serbs to return, but these people cannot really return because they do not know if they are on any of the secret indictments that operate in Croatia. In Croatia, the judiciary, despite all the declared reforms, is at the level of medieval inquisition. There are secret procedures and people are not sure what will happen to them if they enter the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Mr. Minister, convince your esteemed colleagues in the government to stop acting condescendingly towards Croatia, that is, Muslim leadership in BiH. I'm done. It is particularly scandalous that Justice Minister Malovic Maltena apologized to Bosnia and Herzegovina for Serbia's request for the extradition of Ejup Ganic, one of the most responsible for cutting across the JNA column in Dobrovoljacka Street in Sarajevo in May 1992. We from the Serbian Radical Party ask you nothing but to be proud that you are Serbs, such as Croatian ministers proud of being Croats and Muslim ministers to be Muslims. Do not be greater Croats and Muslims than themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36364	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? Please sign in to the electronic system. If not, does he want the word "proposal representative"? Yeah. Here you go. The word has Minister Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36365	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to thank you in the end for all the discussions. One question is whether or not someone agrees with the discussions, but I think it was very useful to discuss these issues. I want to tell you in the beginning that neither I personally nor the MUP have any jurisdiction within the National Assembly of the RS, so it is your business that the agenda points will be united. As far as we're concerned, me too, whenever you invite me, I will come to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Since I have been a People's MP for many years, I know that it is the eternal objection of the Members of Parliament, the merger of discussions in united debates. And I, when I was an MP of the opposition, rebelled against it, but it was obvious that it was during the past period when someone was in power, and now it's the opposition. Once again, I draw your attention that, as far as we're concerned, there is absolutely no reason not to see each other in these individual discussions, unrelated to all these united points of the agenda. I understand the discussion. Most of the discussions were not focused on our address, were more public or were certain ironic objections to the behaviour of EU countries at a time when people who are illegally staying than they are today were treated in one way. I want to remind you, since Mr. Todorovic initially said that I invited people not to travel to Europe, no, I call on our citizens to travel freely because we have visa liberalisation. I call on our citizens to respect the conditions and the laws under which these trips are carried out. It is one question of travel, and the other is the issue of asylum, which is now no longer political, is not recognised as political asylum, but is more considered an economic, i.e. the issue of employment, jobs, etc. I just want to tell you that the first agreements were concluded in 1996. Our country has so far concluded 16 bilateral agreements, covering 18 countries. The first was signed in 1996, with Germany, the second with Switzerland in 1997, later with other countries. So far, total acceptance has been made, for all this time since there has been an agreement on readmission with EU countries, 30.252 prisons. We responded positively to 16265. I'm talking about the whole period. You asked if we were bringing someone back from our country. Yeah. During last year, Hungary and Croatia gave a positive opinion on 1,219 of our prisons to return them. It is about third-country nationals who have been illegally staying here and entered Serbia through Hungary and Croatia. Should we co-operate with countries that have recognised Kosovo and Metohija? I just want to remind you that police co-operation agreements don't have any political connotations. The police must cooperate, whether you have political relations with a country or not. The police are working with even those countries with which they have no diplomatic relations at all. I just want to say, when it comes to Croatia, of course this was the subject of all these conversations and it's more of a question for the Ministry of Justice than for the Ministry of the Interior; we asked these questions, to finally put an end to all these problems you've been talking about, about these secret lists, the indictments, so that our citizens know what legal status they're in. As far as this is concerned, the Croatian Ministry of Interior has such a positive attitude that they also care about resolving the issue as soon as possible. That, of course, is now the issue of judicial authorities in Croatia. I absolutely agree with you that our country should keep asking that question. Should we work with them? We have to cooperate. Today, representatives of the Croatian police are here because one of our citizens was killed in Croatia. It can be co-operated through Interpol, but mostly police cooperate through police attachés that exist in the embassy. So it's mostly co-operated directly when you want better cooperation. That's why these agreements are not at the expense of this country, on the contrary, they can only be useful to us. We're negotiating now and we want to make... Or I'll give you just one example. When it comes to countries that are far away, like the countries you were talking about, which represent today's drug routes, there is no traditional, direct police co-operation. There's a way of heroin, there's a way of cocaine, and we have to work with those police either through Interpol or through the security services of major states. We don't have direct communication with them, which creates certain problems in investigations and in tracking individuals, because, as you know, a large number of those who deal with illegal drug trafficking are not in our country, but are working on exactly those drug routes. That's why it's necessary to have joint monitoring. What does police cooperation mean? It involves exchange of information, exchange of operational knowledge, co-operation in the monitoring of people who are being charged, or suspected of criminal activity. In order for co-operation to be as good as possible, it may include police co-operation and prosecutors in the context of the creation of joint investigation teams, the possibility of joint observations, or the monitoring of people moving from one territory to another, in the sense of the application of covert surveillance of communications, etc. It also includes a single arrest warrant, which would apply to the entire territory of the Balkans or the EU, but it is an ideal situation. So I don't think these agreements can hurt, on the contrary, we now want to sign bilateral police co-operation agreements with the countries of Latin America, where there is currently the most need for that. There are, above all, Brazil, Argentina, Uruguay and other countries, as you know, where there is today an illegal drug trade route, in this case cocaine. When it comes to heroin, it's true that the Balkan route... According to U.S. service estimates, 80% of the heroin arriving in Europe is passing through this territory. Not through Serbia's territory, but across this region. That's why co-operation between the police in this region is necessary. When it comes to driver's licenses, there are many countries that recognise our permits. Where they don't confess, we insist on solving these problems. We expect to see the Minister of Interior of Italy Maroni soon, which we have discussed to finally address the issue of recognising the validity of driving licences with Italy, which is at this point the most important, because there is currently the biggest problem. When it comes to border traffic or, as it used to be, a borderline, we're absolutely open to it. We also suggest that this applies to other countries, Bulgaria, Romania, but there is now an obstacle, it is EU legislation. We had earlier talks with Romania and Bulgaria to open several small-scale crossing points. The EU's approval is currently pending from their commission whether this is possible, because small-border traffic implies, i.e. earlier visa-free travel, and in some situations even without passports, i.e. with personal documents, a ID card, which I think is of great interest to people living in the area. That's what you were talking about. There are many people who may have an estate on the other side, who need to go 100 miles to get to some border crossing. When it comes to what you said about our border, our border crossings, we need to create good border police and modern and equipped border crossings, because it is one of the criteria that is very important for meeting the conditions for EU entry, so that, when we enter the EU, we can enter the Schengen area and we can abolish all that we have created. It is, and that's precisely why you don't think that this is about establishing some solid borders to separate territories, but to keep the border completely open to the passage of people, to the traffic of goods, to capital, to the retail traffic, but to be closed to cross-border crime. As far as reading is concerned, just one more thing to say, that the reintegration of the returnees doesn't belong to what we're saying, it's a continuation of this process. The interior ministry is responsible for conducting the readmission itself, in the sense that the process ends. The issue of reintegration of returnees based on the strategy adopted is under the authority of other ministries in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This, of course, includes what you were talking about, the right to pension, education, health care, etc. When it comes to health issues, we never do readmissions, or the return of people in poor health, but only with the presence of doctors so that the police will not later suffer any consequences for such transport. Reciprocity of the readmission exists. I've already told you what the data is and that we're also returning, Serbia, all those who are illegally staying. At the very end, I thank you for this debate. Of course, there were topics here that weren't addressed to our ministry. I don't want to talk about it right now. Anyway, as far as we're concerned, this ministry and myself personally, since I've spent a long time here, I'd even say for decades, I don't want to reveal how old I am, we're absolutely open to discussing here, whether the debate is united or individual, on committees. Believe me, given the work this ministry is doing, it is certain that it is a much more pleasant atmosphere in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, no matter how much there are political differences and sparks in the controversy than in the original business that this ministry does every day. I thank you and invite you to vote in favour of these proposals. Srjan, thank you for this incentive. I'm asking you to vote, and I'm not going to take any more of your time away from this planned break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36366	I'm concluding a joint single search. Before I set a break, I am informing the MPs that we will be working after 1800 hours today, on the basis of Article 85, and until the end of the point that at that moment is the subject of our work. We continue work at 3:10 p.m. Thank you. [[After break – 15/15]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work in the afternoon. We move to a joint single search of the 29th and 30th points of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON A CONSERVATION OF THE GUARANTATION OF THE GUARANTITY (REFINANCE AND DISTRIBUTION OF GUS) Between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and Proposal FOR A CONSERVATION OF THE CONSERVATION AND CALCATION OF THE GUACHMENT AND FINANCE OF THE FUNDS BETWEEN KFW, FRANKFURT ON THE MAIN AND THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA — A PROGRAMME OF THE GUARRANGE AND CANALISATION IN THE SERVENSES OF THE FUTURES OF SERBIA IN THE SERBIA OF SERBIA, SOUR 2S. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, called for meetings of Mr Verica Kalanovic, National Investment Plan Minister and Dr Diana Dragutinovic, Minister of Finance, to attend the meetings of the Ministry of Mining and Energy and Biljana Simonovic of the Public Debt Administration, Snezana Ristic, Head of the Oil and Gas Sector of the Ministry of Energy and the Public Enterprise "Srbijagas". In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint single search on the proposal for a guarantee treaty law (Refinance short-term debt, build a gas underground storage facility and maintain a gas transmission and distribution network) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Loan and Financing Treaty between KfW, Frankfurt on May and the Republic of Serbia – Water supply and sewerage programme in Serbia's medium size municipalities I – Phase 2 and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that, according to Article 152 paragraph 3, and in accordance with Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours, as well as that this time shall be allocated to MPs' groups of MPs by a proportion of the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, and that shall be the MP's Group for European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS MP's group - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group Advanced Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS - 18 minutes; the MEP Group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliament group of New Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the E-mail group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS Group of Members – six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every once every five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to file an application for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that MPs' groups have authorised them to represent them by these points of the agenda: MP Dusan Bajatovic, MP of the SPS - JS, MP Jovan Nesovic, MEP of the G17 Plus, MP of Dejan Mirović SRS. According to Article 152, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty (Refinancing of short-term debt, construction of a underground gas storage facility and maintenance of gas transmission and distribution networks) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan and Financing Treaty between KfW, Frankfurt, May and the Republic of Serbia – Water supply and sewerage programme in Serbia's medium size municipalities I – Phase 2. Does the representative of Prime Minister Verica Kalanovic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36368	Ladies and gentlemen, we have two laws on the confirmation of the treaty, one on a new loan financed by a major project in the area of municipal infrastructure, on loans that the Republic of Serbia and the German Development Bank, in the direction of resolving the water supply issue in eight municipalities in the Republic of Serbia, concluded at the end of February last year. The second contract is also related to the restoration of infrastructure. It is a guarantee contract that the Republic of Serbia gives to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and refers to a project related to energy infrastructure. First of all, I want to say that, almost without exception, there is a consensus that Serbia's development depends on infrastructure development and that without infrastructure development, we will hardly be able to improve the business climate, attract foreign investment, improve economic activity, employ new people. At first, I want to say what is the subject of funding through these two contracts, and I want to talk about both one law and another. The law confirming the financing agreement between the German Development Bank KfW, Frankfurt in Majna and the Republic of Serbia refers to funding of a water supply and sewerage programme in medium size municipalities in Serbia – Phase 2. From this program, we can't see exactly what the object of funding is, and therefore let me say how the program came into being. In 2006 and 2007 The German Development Bank, together with the then Agency for the Development of Local Municipal Infrastructure, has entered into solving a serious water supply problem in Serbia and improving the work of municipal systems and municipal public enterprises in eight medium size municipalities, or eight municipalities that have over 50,000 inhabitants. These are: Kraljeno, Loznica, Šabac, Smederevo, Panchevo, Sremska Mitrovica, Sombor and Vršac. Why did it get into one of these projects? The devastation of these municipal systems has been found to have a significant impact on the quality of life of people in these municipalities, but it also significantly slows down their economic development. The analysis found that the huge loss of water spent due to faulty water pipes, due to faulty compounds, is that there is no adequate water quality in all cities, but also that public utility companies work very often below the threshold of rentability, with a system they inherited from the previous decades. It entered the programme by making 10m euros in donations from the German government first. These donations, distributed in municipalities, amounted to between 600m and 1,200,000 euros, depending on the needs and size of the city, or the municipality. First, a detailed expertise was done and subsequent small repairs were made, with the detection of losses that were present in the municipalities. It has been found that more funds are needed incomparably and that the project is such that it has to be significantly expanded to resolve this issue in a systematic manner. The establishment of the Ministry of National Investment Plan, the German Development Bank, with its partner, the Ministry of National Investment Plan, first defined the objectives in this project. These targets are set at five points. The first is the expansion of the user network because it has been found that some of these municipalities and cities already have households on their very edges that are not connected to central water lines, thus not only affecting the business of the public utility that is in charge of water, but also significantly increasing the price of their services. The second thing is that the quality of water used is such that at any time it is not satisfactory for households or for the industry that uses water to a significant extent in these cities. Third, irregular water supply is present, especially in the summer months, in some of these municipalities, or cities, and continuity in water supply is a basic civilization standard without which we cannot move on in the 21st century. The fourth thing is complete transformation, modernisation and, I would even say, the transition of public utility companies that are neither in mode nor in charge of services are at such a level as to meet consumer needs. The fifth is to raise a positive business climate for the economy and to invest in these municipalities as development centres, given that it is municipalities that have both great potential and significant numbers of these people. It has been found that 60,000,000 euros is necessary for such a big job, 10,000 euros through donation, and at the moment 25,000,000 euros are planned for the project loan, and 17,400,000 euros through donation, of which 14.5 million are foreseen from the German government's donations, and the rest from EU funds. I want to fully inform you that these funds will be allocated. Kraljevo municipality received 66,000 donations in the previous period; five million euros needed to complete the project, part of the loan, which will be returned through the Ministry of Finance and from the Republika Srpska budget, and part of the donation provided for 40%, that is the 17,400,000 I mentioned. The password got 905,000 out of donations and needed another 5,950,000 to complete the project. Panchevo received 753,000 from donations and 5,370,000, I speak in euro for the completion of the project; Shabac – 520,000 from donations and five million from the completion of the project; Smederevo – 712,000 from donations and 6,200,000 from the completion of the projects; Sremska Mitrovica – 925,000 from donations and five million euros for the completion of the project; Sombor – 544,000 euros from donations and four million from the completion of the project and Vrsac 503,000 from donations and 6,250,000 euros for the completion of the project. Why was it important for me to read these numbers? Almost without the exception of this municipality and cities as one of their top priorities have brought about the problem of water supply. They also identified this as a problem for their further development, such as Vrsac municipality, which, with 6,250,000 euros in the coming period, should also address the issue of demanganisation, related to the smooth work of the pharmaceutical industry located in Vrsac, but also to the issue of water quality, as in Sremska Mitrovica, to an increase in the number of users, as in the Kingdom. The 60m-euro project should be permanently, systemically, in the next period to address the water supply issue in these eight, I would say, for the Serbian opportunities of large, towns and municipalities, which will significantly affect the improvement of their standard and quality of life for people. I note that this is one of those programs that has their own history and their perspective. First, water supply issues were addressed in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and Kragujevac after 2000. years, when significant funds are invested in improving their municipal network. This is step two, where eight municipalities and cities are covered by the program. In the following year, we will have an extension of the programme for six municipalities, which are slightly smaller, between 40,000 and 50,000 people, although there are cities among which is the largest Leskovac. This is a classic example where, with a strategic approach, one of the key infrastructure problems in the Republic of Serbia is approached. In the end, I want to say that support for one of these laws is related to 800,000 people. I call on you to support this law on loan and financing between the German Development Bank and the Republic of Serbia. The second law is about confirming the Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. It is clear that energy infrastructure is something extremely important for Serbia's further development and it is clear that without the involvement of public enterprises in the energy sector, we will not be able to lead and implement such projects to the end. The project will be implemented by the Public Enterprise "Serbia", and the Republic of Serbia signed a contract with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on 18 February 2010. The project consists of four parts. The first part is to refinance the short-term loan, the second part to maintain and improve the distribution network, the third implementation of the project and the fourth construction of the underground gas storage facility. What is the intention, what are the basic objectives of a single project like this? First of all, we know what a system's sustainability and further work means to refinance short-term loans, which are commercially, under unmatched stricter conditions than project loans, which are signed with international development financial institutions, international financial institutions that finance development projects, where long-term loans are involved, with long-term beginnings and which far less burden the business of such enterprises than the short-term. But in addition to repaying the loan and what's around the door right now, the loan is scheduled for far more serious infrastructure requirements. These are the construction of a underground gas storage facility, connecting the pipeline system of the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska, connecting the pipeline system of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Romania and rehabilitating the natural gas transport system. I hope that in addition to swearing to the development of infrastructure, which is present in everyday life, in businessmen who in each place highlight infrastructure as one of the basic preconditions for competitiveness, their economic activity, and their new investment, among those who make models of economic, fiscal, monetary, every other policy for Serbia's exit from the economic crisis, but also for citizens in meeting their daily needs, the implementation of these projects will come upon your approval, because at this moment Serbia's development we could not do it from our own resources, but thanks to favourable credits we decided to combine the budgets and to complete the projects as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36369	I thank Minister Kalanovic. I would like to inform you that according to this point, the representative of the LDP Group will be the MP of the Free Maras. Does the rapporteur of the board of directors want a word, MP Branko Ljiljak? Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. Mr. Free Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36370	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, can really talk about this subject very much. We have here two things that have been offered to us and which the Minister explained to us. Of course, in the end, when she explained the first point, or water supply, she called for the benefit of 800,000 citizens and that is quite fine. However, when you explained this second point, you owe me a very large number of information, Madam Minister. This is a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and for the 150,000 euros to go to "Serbia", as you said, for building a new warehouse, for maintaining the network, financing short-term loans, etc. We've got a big problem here. When we were ten days ago, there was Mrs Dragutinovic, I'm sorry that she wasn't here, we talked about the guarantee that the Republic of Serbia gave about 170,000,000 euros to Bank Intezija, also for "Serbiagas", we asked a question that we thought was very important at the moment, and that is the question – what is the debt of "Serbigas" in 2009, how did this debt come into being and is someone responsible? The minister then gave us the answer that in fact "Srbigas" has no debt. This was confirmed by the director of "Srbigas", who, however, said on 28 December 2009, that the loss of "Srbigas" in 2009 was about 107,000,000 euros due to an unfavourable rate of dollars, unpaid claims and less gas deliveries. "Really speaking," he says, "losers are 9.3 billion dinars or 107,000,000 euros, but if we take into account the value of capital acquired by the Paracino glass factory, the methanol factory, etc., our balance is around zero. “ According to Mr. Bajatovic, no one is to blame for the losses of "Srbigas" because it is the government's decision to keep the price of gas below real for social and economic reasons. When it comes to the value of the capital acquired by the takeover, let's say, Paracino glass factories, nor ministers, nor did Mr. Bajatovic say that the Paracino glass factory had a loss of 64.7m euros last year. So what kind of zero are we talking about, when taking over some failed companies, the loser by "Serbiagas" annuated the debt that exists? We asked why there was this debt. I had a full understanding for those who now run "Srbigas", because there is a real problem, which the director of "Serbiagas" himself repeatedly apostrophyd – the power plants don't pay, they haven't paid for the whole year last year, the economy doesn't pay, and it's real for someone to do business with the loss. But from this statement, we see that it is the government's decision to preserve social peace. Now we need MPs to raise our hand and press the key and vote – yes, we will do more. Or Serbia will give guarantees for a loan that, according to you... I quote, "Energy Infrastructure is very important for Serbia's future." Mrs Kalanovic, I must remind you that Serbia has a gas storage facility, it is called the Banatski Dvor. You know that very well. You know very well that the Banatski dvor warehouse at which the NIP, in your words, went to 11.1m euros, is that right, you gave that statement, during 2006, 2007 and 2008. Also, all relevant indicators and all the information we have received so far say that about 100m euros have been invested in the Banatski Dvor gas storage facility; to complete this warehouse it took a little less than 100m euros. Then what do the executives in this country do? They give 51% to the Russian Federation in NIS. Nothing is caused, they make an agreement with Gazprom, where 51% of the joint venture they set up, and related to the Banatski Dvor warehouse, give the Russian side. What's going on now? We are getting information, because I really don't know who can understand this, that 51% of the Russian side invests around 25,000,000 euros, the Serbian side invests around 24,000,000 euros, with the Russians due to pay another 3.500,000 euros, as they will print out the pillow gas. All the information we have received in the last year and the change of days from the Minister of Energy, from the prime minister, from the director of "Srbiagas", from a large number of MPs here say that the gas storage facility "Banatski Dvor" is incredibly important for Serbia, that we will be able to store the gas storage facility "Banatski Dvor" and that will be a guarantee of Serbia's energy stability, we will be able to store gas there. But then what do you do? A month ago, make a deal with the Russian side, where they own 51%. Now, why does no one have the courage to say "Banatski Dvor" is no longer owned by Serbia? The fact that "Srbigas" has 51% and 49%, respectively... He will wonder as many as the Serbian side and NIS are now 49%. So, nothing. The Russians run NIS 100%. They will also manage the Banatski Dvor warehouse 100%. Then you have the courage to say – we must build a new gas storage facility because Serbia no longer has its gas storage facility. He won't have anywhere to store gas, or he will, but he will pay the commercial price to the Russians, determined by the majority owner. The majority owner, or "Gasprom", is known to be, for example, the largest price in Serbia of fuel, gasoline and oil, and it is the worst. The reasons are processing, etc., but it doesn't matter. It's the highest price. It's decided by a Russian partner. The same will happen with the "Banatski Dvor" warehouse. If, as a state of Serbia, we want to store, and listen to the last year and a half that we will store huge amounts of gas there, we will have to pay the commercial price, determined by the majority owner. That's why we have to build a new warehouse. Now, you have defined from this guarantee, or from the loan the state of Serbia provides guarantees, 70m euros as a new gas storage facility planned to be in the municipality of Zitište, i.e. at Itebey. I'm interested in one thing -- according to all the information, the state of Serbia has invested about 100m euros in the Banatski Dvor warehouse. It took less than a hundred million to complete it, so it means they're going to print out that pillow gas. Here we have different numbers, the ones provided by the minister, provided by the director of "Srbigas", and heard from the Russian side as well. I have to read to you what the man who signed the contract on the Russian side said. He said this way – 80% of the business around "Banatski Dvor" was completed, so it could work, 80% of the facility was completed. As of April 1st, it should begin to impress so-called. pillow gas. That's what the man said the other day. I have to read to you the statement by the director of "Srbigas" of 10. 11. In 2009. He recalled that the first phase of the construction of the Banatski Dvor underground warehouse would be completed by the end of 2009 and would allow storage of about 300m cubic metres of energy and daily production of five million cubic metres of gas. So far, about 250 million cc's of gas have been stored and eight wells are under construction. I'm interested in one thing, and I believe the citizens, we gave that much money to the Banatski Dvor, the citizens of this country, via "Srbiagas", "Naftagas", you know well that the NIS also participated now with 12m euros in the construction of the Banatski Dvor during the last year, you gave from the NIP elevenm euros; over the past years, a great deal of money was given to train that gas warehouse, and then we come into a situation that we no longer own it, or 49%. As you raised your hands from the NIS, since you only have 49%, so you will also rise from the "Banatski Dvor". You're building a new warehouse, and that's fine. Why are we building it? And that's what citizens need to know. Because according to EU standards, every country must have gas supplies it stores, but we plan to store it in our own warehouse, right? Since the Banatian Court is no longer ours, we'll have to go to Itebey. We ask that you tell us only one thing – why is no one willing to take responsibility for anything? Here was Mr. Ciplic two, three, four months ago, who was otherwise a member of the NIS Management Board during 2008, then appointed minister. I asked him three times, in 13 minutes, how much was allowed to me, not three times, but thirty-three times I asked him for those thirteen minutes – who's responsible? Why did a successful company, which was 20th in October 2008 alone for profit in Europe, become a loser at the end of that year? And it's a very big loss. I didn't get any answers. He didn't even have the decency to say - it's not true. I can understand why he didn't say that. We're getting into a big problem, we're getting energy-dependent. Of course every country wants... We saw back months or a year of countries trying to join the "South Stream", or pipeline whose construction was planned, and we all know for what reasons – for the simple reason that Russia had a major problem with Ukraine. But what's going on? There are political changes in Ukraine. A man led as a great supporter of quality co-operation with Russia becomes president. What's he doing as the first thing? That's what he promised in the election campaign, and what does he do as the first thing? It concluded with Russia and the EU that the pipeline passing through Ukraine will no longer be Ukrainian, but each will own a third, meaning the EU, Russia and Ukraine. In this way, there will be no more fear of a gas loss because Ukraine defrosted the tap and not that flow through its territory. Another very important thing that is happening is this economic crisis that has shaken everything, including "Gasprom". You certainly know well, since you are a government minister, that a study on the "South Stream" has not yet been started, that it will not be known when it will start, that at least three years to be done. It's really a question of when there's going to be a "South Stream" and whether it's going to be. They say that the value of the investment is about 20 billion euros and that in Russia they rightly question the viability of the construction of such a pipeline now. Remember, this pipeline was a prerequisite for giving the Russian side 51% of NIS, 51% of the Banatski Dvor joint venture, etc. I wanted to mention something else. This is completely fresh. We've been over the past year and a half... In fact, nearly two years now since the last government of Vojislav Kostunica wanted to make a decision on an oil-gas deal at that session, two days before the elections. We were on the street that May along with ten thousand people, came before the government and submitted a request not to decide on it at the government, but to do so by a new government. For what reason? We thought NIS couldn't be sold that way, that it couldn't be given 51%, because nobody did it, etc. There have been times when there have been crises when it comes to gas supply. Last winter, Serbia was exposed to low gas supply, in fact, there were cold days in apartments. It was found to be because of this, one, that Ukraine turned the tap; two, we didn't have an adequate storage of gas in which we could draw gas and heat the population. Since the price of gas was up 63% in the meantime, if I'm not mistaken, we said then – don't raise the price of gas, stop the mediator. We were the only ones here who kept talking - stop the gas broker that was introduced in 2006. We've been getting answers all the time -- we have to have a middleman, we have to have a middleman. Now from Russia comes the following information, you are certainly familiar with that, that the Russian side is reviewing the existence of a mediator and is ready to abolish the mediator because it has pressures in all states. Our energy minister, Mr Skundric, says he is expressing doubts about such information and cannot possibly have Serbia abolished the mediator. That mediator, to remind you, takes 4% plus VAT, that's almost 5%. "Yugorosgas", Mrs. Kalanovic, is called the firm. Now, on March 11th, Mrs. Kalanovic, this year, what does the Russian ambassador say? Konuzin warns Russian investors and says so – the buyer in Serbia does not know what he buys. That's what Russian Ambassador Konuzin says on March 11th. The buyer in Serbia doesn't know what he's buying, but the seller doesn't know what he's selling. The privatisation agency, a broker in the sale, is not responsible for the incomplete documentation provided by the Serbian side. Then, over time, the debts of the Serbian companies, which the buyer did not know existed before the purchase, and these debts could be seen from the documentation available when taking over the company. Due to the bad experiences experienced by Russian companies, the Russian ambassador warns Russian firms when investing in Serbia. When asked whether it also applies to NIS, he answered – yes. Take care of this, he says – Russia's Gazprom today has only 2-4% of NIS property, and you sold them a cat in a bag. We have warned all along that you have deceived the citizens of Serbia. When I say you, I mean not specifically you, but the government and those who advocated an oil-gas arrangement with Russia because it will bring us stability. It brought us only dependence on one state. We replaced one monopoly with another monopoly, with another country's monopoly. Since we gave them the NIS, we are now giving them the warehouse, the only one we have, and then we are raising credit to make a new loan, and this 70 million loan, with which we could probably finish Banatski Dvor and that "Srbigas", or the state of Serbia is the owner of the warehouse, which can truly be a regional leader and supplying other countries and that we never have a problem with gas shortage again. But someone decided it was easier, or better for someone. It's just that we've been saying it all along. We weren't against any co-operation with the Russian side at all, but on an equal level and being 50-50. But here we have some who have defended the interests of the Russian side more than the Serbian side, and I think they do today. I'm sorry Minister Skundric isn't here just to interpret this. Is there anyone in this country who can safely say that there will be a "South Stream", that the South Stream will be completed that year, 15 to 15, that it will pass through Serbia and explain why the existing gas storage facility "Banatski Dvor" will be given to the Russian side, investing a lot of money in it, about 100m euros, and now we're raising a loan, the state gives a guarantee of 70m euros, to start building a new warehouse with Itebei. It's really a lot of illogical stuff. It's hard to handle all this. You're constantly getting different data on how many pillow gasses there are. Someone step out and say whether the pillow gas is pumped from the Banatski Dvor, so it's driven like a commercial gas. Is there now a pillow gas set up in the Banatian Court or is it pumped and driven like a commercial gas, accountingly, and ready for sale, because probably the one who manages it decides to save what can be saved? That's so irresponsible. You initially said how important the infrastructure is when it comes to energy. How important is the strategy? We're the energy strategy that we had when you adopted this agreement on oil and gas co-operation with Russia. As important as it is not to be dependent on energy, every country knows that. Serbia alone has allowed itself to be completely dependent on the state of Russia and the state of Gazprom. I hope, Mrs Kalanovic, that at least one of these questions will be answered during the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36371	Madam Minister, you have your word. Minister Verica Kalanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36372	Mr. People's Parliament, with one sentence I will answer a large number of your questions. Should I remind the House of the National Assembly that the sale law is 51% of Serbia's oil industry's shares adopted by a large majority in this assembly? Everything else is the consequences of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36373	Mr. Marash on what grounds? Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36374	I guess I'm right. Mrs. Kalanovic, as always, I find it really hard to find words after this sentence of yours. It shows the essence of what the Liberal Democratic Party has been saying from the very beginning when it comes to the oil and gas agreement, it shows that... And that's what we've heard from the MPs from the party from which you come from, they're not entirely in agreement with that agreement; we've heard that from Deputy Prime Minister of the Government, so that you'll never sign such an agreement. But I think it's a transfer of responsibility now to the Assembly and MPs, that they voted largely in favour of the agreement, extremely hypocritical. At that time, there was wavering and talking about 200,000 euros in earnings Serbia will have since the gas pass when the "South Stream" was made, it said what benefits Serbia will have. No one but LDP wanted to tell us where the problem was. I must tell you that I am proud that, along with MPs from the LDP Group and a small number of MPs of the ruling majority, I was not in favour of this agreement. Then my colleague Mr Ostojić said that we are imposing a great burden on our children and that the children will be ashamed of that decision. As pathetic as this sounds, that's true. We're getting addicted. We made a bad decision. No one has the courage to do anything but keep quiet or try to transfer responsibility to the Republika Srpska Assembly in one sentence. I'm sure most MPs didn't know a lot of details. I'm sure these consequences you're talking about, as funny as that may be, will be very painful for Serbia and its citizens. We give guarantees as a state for a loan that refinances short-term loans. We're building a new warehouse, even though we already have it, and we gave it away. Someone's responsible for that. It's not true that no one is responsible for the losses. It's not true that no one is responsible for these actions. Someone did. Insisting on responsibility is not our whim, nor do we want to prove anything, but the need to protect the public interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36375	Madam Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36376	Mr. Marash, I don't want to be hypocritical. I want, as a responsible person, to address the Assembly with facts. The fact is, what I said in the previous report. Both I and you further develop energy infrastructure does not oblige us to enter into the construction of a new warehouse, build a new distribution network and create a sustainable system in Serbia's natural gas supply.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36377	Thank you. The word is by MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36378	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Ms. Kalanovic, today we have two agenda points, as Minister Kalanovic said at the beginning, and these are the proposal for a law to confirm the guarantee agreement for "Srbigas" and a bill to confirm the loan agreement for KfW for water supplies. I have to tell you, when I saw the proposed agenda, because this session has 38 points and it connects everything and everything, I thought this was a significant shift, for the simple reason that we already had, as the first item of the agenda, a bill on giving the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of the Bank of Intesa, and again for "Srbigas". However, when you carefully look at these two laws, there is absolutely no difference between a loan for "Srbigas", a fundamental difference, except that someone seems to think that we don't know that 170 plus 150... 170,000,000 euros is a loan per item of the 5th current agenda and according to this 20th item of the agenda is 150,000, and in the course of the debate, I will talk about one and another loan, which is in sum of 320,000,000 euros. Of course you were talking about the economy at first, and this is about the economy. We've had our chance to look at reports from the Copalniks in the past few days. I won't waste my time today, because the ministers best described the economic policy that this government is leading and in the best way they said what they thought was going to come out of the crisis. Every minister said the diametrically opposite thing, which is the best proof that we're right when we say that the government has no idea how to get out of the crisis, nor does it have a single policy. We discussed one loan a few days ago, and that is 320,000,000 euros in credit for "Srbigas". It is more than 3% of the public debt of the Republic of Serbia. When these two loans are passed, Serbia's debt will be up by another three per cent. We will absolutely agree that everything is necessary, there is my friend Mr. Colakovic, you need even bigger pensions, you need even bigger salaries, the situation in education is not good enough. Minister Djelic spoke about the state of science, that it is necessary for science to get significantly more funding. That's exactly the point. That's why there's a Parliament and a government to choose priorities. As far as the Democratic Party of Serbia is concerned, we are absolutely on the fact that infrastructure is one of the priorities, and that is where we fully agree with you. There are other priorities. For example, for years in Serbia, it was the idea that services could solve the problem. Significant investment in infrastructure, significant investment in services can solve some problems. Is that right? That's exactly what Greece was doing and now there are 300 billion euros in foreign debt, and, as you heard a few days ago in Washington, there is a danger that Greek debt will create a new wave of crisis. If there's no economic justification and proper choice of priorities, then what we're going to say is that everything we need doesn't mean anything, because we absolutely need everything, and then everything is a priority. There are some priorities above priority. These are the proposals for a two-guarantee law. It is not directly in charge of the Republic of Serbia, but rather in debt, in this case we are talking about "Serbia", public enterprises. The legislation says financial resources will be provided. How much financial resources? In these two laws, there is not a single letter on what the capacity of "Srbiagas" is, what is the ability of "Srbiagas" to repay these loans? We often receive guarantees laws in the congregation procedure. Most often it is said that it is not necessary to provide financial resources. When you look at the Ministry of Finance's report on budget implementation, we received a preliminary report as members of the Finance Committee for the previous year, the debt payment at the activated guarantees is 3,900,000 euros. Obviously, there are companies that are unable to repay those debts. It is only a matter of days when we will admit that these companies cannot do so and when the Republic of Serbia will do so. That famous DRI report, which we haven't talked about yet, also points to that kind of problem. How serious you will see if you look at just what these loans are used for: credits at Bank Inteza – refinance short-term liabilities to commercial banks, financing liquid liquidity, additional investments; credit at the European Bank – refinance short-term loans, underground storage, connecting pipelines with Republika Srpska, Romania, rehabilitation of the pipeline system. It's absolutely not a dispute, but how much money goes for which loan? The second thing, there is not a single letter about the company "Srbigas". When you look at the Business Registers Agency's website, the core capital of the company "Srbigas" is thirteen billion dinars. The company has a capital capital of 130,000,000 euros, and we need to accept the guarantee that it will be in debt for 320,000,000 euros, three times what its capital is! How is this company gonna be able to get that back? There's not a single letter of analysis here that's going to go on for the next few years. Or maybe it'll work out the way the EPS has an idea to raise wages, says it has nothing to do with the budget, we'll raise the price, and we'll figure out how much we need to pay, so we'll pay through the increased price. When you look at it, these are long-term loans, under relatively favourable conditions; that's 320,000,000 euros, a grace period of three, four years and one and the other, the return period is ten or eleven years. If there were no interest dinars, it is 30m euros each year as an obligation to service the debt. Is this company capable of doing it or is it going to break down the back of taxpayers? These are the analyses needed to enable the National Assembly to decide accordingly. How paradoxical is the situation? It may sound banal, but look at the loan to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, of course, the English version and the Serbian version. The Serbian version is totaled on four sides, with the order; when each character is carefully counted, each letter, including the interpretation, has five thousand characters, letters and characters. Five thousand letters require a 150,000-euro loan guarantee. Every letter of this paper is worth 30,000 euros. That's all the explanation that we're voting here and saying it's necessary. Does Serbia need a pipeline? Yeah. Is Serbia in need of an underground warehouse? Yeah. Does Serbia need rehabilitation? Yeah. Do Serbia need higher pensions and higher salaries? Mr. Cholakovic, what do you think of that? Can Serbia do all this at the same time or will Serbia become Greece in five years? Is anyone thinking about it? There is absolutely no body in Serbia at this time that discusses the cost of investments, absolutely no body that correctly determines priorities and absolutely no body that will determine how those funds will be returned. Is that so? Remember how many factories have never worked in the former Yugoslavia. Were they needed when laws were passed on their construction? Well, they did. All that is done in such a way, without the necessary analysis, all that is done without the necessary previous actions, does not indicate that it can be a good investment. It may be, but in serious countries, nothing is left to the case, but this kind of thing is being debated in a serious way. We are absolutely concerned about the economic situation in the country. Contracts and laws that are like this absolutely don't open the space for us to look at the future. We will agree that the infrastructure is in a very bad state, but we will agree that the choice of priorities is absolutely not adequate and that in such a way we are only getting closer to a Greek scenario. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36379	Thank you. The word is made by MP Jovan Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36380	The President-in-Office, respected Mrs. Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, today we have two laws: one law is to confirm the guarantee contract given to JP "Srbigas", and the other law is to confirm the loan contract for financing local municipal infrastructure. As far as the first law, i.e. the guarantee contract for JP "Srbigas", is a guarantee for the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the guarantee is given at 150,000 euros. Those funds should be invested in several areas, as planned. One area is to refinance short-term liabilities, i.e. loans held by JP “Srbigas”. The second is the construction of a underground warehouse in Banat, a warehouse in Itebej, a capacity of about a billion cubic metres of gas. The third part is connecting the pipeline system of the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska, as well as connecting the pipeline system of the Republic of Serbia and Romania. The fourth part refers to the rehabilitation of the gas transport system, which means quality maintenance and improvement of the gas network. As for this first area, to be honest, JP "Srbigas" according to business banks has short-term loans and these loans are completely commercial, with high interest rates. This is one way to simply withdraw one larger loan, a long-term loan that will replace and give the company the opportunity to repay those commercial loans to the business banks. As soon as it's a long-term loan, it's more favourable. This will improve the liquidity and business of JP "Srbigas", both now and in the future. They just won't have those commercial loans. As for the second part, which is building a underground storage facility of a billion metres of cubic gas, the project envisions that storage costs about 50m euros. The warehouse should provide sufficient amounts of gas to the Republic of Serbia for about a year to prevent gas supply disturbances, as was the case a few years ago. Because major countries, Ukraine and Russia, had their problems, in Serbia, consumers, both individual households and heat, had problems whether there would be heating. You know how much this has caused problems in Serbia. On the other hand, this warehouse can allow the state of Serbia, or JP "Srbigas", to buy gas in a period where the price of gas on the world market is lower and to preserve it for the winter period, when the gas is more expensive. It would also improve the financial situation of public enterprises and there would be no major impact, i.e. an increase in prices during the heating season towards end-users, i.e. consumers. As for the rehabilitation of the pipeline system, it refers to the recovery of the pipeline network in those places where it lasted. The second section refers to improvements related to environmental protection and the security of the pipeline system. The third part refers to the acquisition of modern technological equipment for testing the state of the pipeline networks. That's important from the point of view of security. It should be said that this loan is indeed favourable. It's taken for 12 years, Grace's period is four years. The beginning of the realization is planned for 2010; the interest rate is the average eurobore in six months, plus the margin 1%; when all is added, somewhere less than 2%. Indeed, to be honest, it is one of the most favourable loans a public company can take, the annual interest rate is below 2%, which I find truly favourable. Realisation of this entire project will ensure that we have a more stable pipeline system than we have now, that we have a better and safer supply of our consumers, especially in the winter period, when the most needed supply of our consumers is. I'm sure this loan will make it easier and better for our JP "Srbigas". As far as the second law is concerned, it is the law on a loan agreement for financing between the KfW Development Bank of Germany and the Republic of Serbia, for a water supply and sewerage programme in medium size municipalities in Serbia. When we talk about this law, it is really important to say what water and sewerage systems we have in Serbia at the moment, in our municipalities. What is certainly clear, because of the economic crisis, which has been going on in Serbia for the last twenty years, little or not, has been invested in both water and sewerage networks, and today we have narrow throats. This means insufficient water supply for many residents in towns and municipalities in Serbia. The number of inhabitants was increased in certain areas of the municipality, there was no change in the water network and thus the diameter of the water pipes, i.e. the flow is not enough to serve all those residents who want to join the water network. The second thing, which is also important in the state of Serbia, is that the losses in the water network are large, depending on the municipality to the municipality. Some studies show that losses in Serbia's water network range between 20% and 50%, which is a very large loss, if we take the EU between 5% and 10%. The reason for these major losses is the wear-out of water pipes and the wear-out of all those connection elements that are related to components, valves and all that monitors the water network at the level of one city or municipality. The thing that's also bad in the state of Serbia is that water collection is low. It is currently moving, depending on the municipality and the city, between 50 and 80%. On the one hand, the economic situation is such that people simply don't have enough resources to pay for water, but there is another thing that is very important, with us water is still a social category, not an economic category. Therefore, the price of water cubicity in the state of Serbia in almost all municipalities is lower than it should be, but if you get an increase in water prices, then you have a problem charging. The policy run by public utility companies dealing with water supply is sensitive and has to be taken into account. Our public utility companies depend on subsidies, whether on local self-government which are their founders or on subsidies coming from the state, because the financial operations of these companies are at risk of heavy losses and lower payment. At this point, it depends heavily on the inflows from the budget, both the states and the budgets of local self-government. A particular problem is the sewerage network in the municipalities and cities of Serbia. Today in Serbia, a small number of cities and municipalities have wastewater treatment facilities; waste water is released directly from sewage pipes into water systems, i.e. rivers or certain channels, so we have serious problems from the point of view of environmental protection and waterway protection. This programme concerns eight municipalities and cities in Serbia, these are cities: Kraljevo, Loznica, Pančevo, Sabac, Sombor, Sremska Mitrovica, Vrsac and Smederevo. He's got two parts. One part's already finished, that's the part that's been going on for the last three years, and in that part of the country... In fact, these public utility companies in these eight cities and municipalities received a tenm-euro donation. That donation was spent on building new wells. That means getting new amounts of water for cities and municipalities. On the other hand, it's been spent on replacing exhaust pipes. So it was going to reduce the loss in the water systems, as well as the replacement of water and pump, all that follows that water infrastructure. I say ten million pure donations have been spent and this way partially improved water supply in these municipalities. Each municipality received between 600,000 and 1,200,000 euros, which I think is very important for these municipal systems. This second part we're talking about today is the continuation of this first part, and it's also being conducted in these eight municipalities. Now that includes the Ministry of National Investment Plan, through which this whole project will go. He's going to continue on this first part. The total of 43,000,000 euros, we are now talking about this loan, will be spent on investments to expand the source, which means getting new amounts of water for municipalities and cities that I mentioned earlier. On the other hand, it will be spent on improving water quality. Today, asbestos pipes are still being used in the state of Serbia. These asbestos tubes need to be replaced and the replacement of these pipes will lead to a better quality of water. I'm absolutely sure our citizens will drink more proper water. Much of the funding will go to investment to rehabilitate the water and sewerage network. What is also important is the expansion of areas on which water and sewerage networks will be covered. Today, in these eight municipalities in Serbia, even some suburban settlements, let alone rural settlements, do not have a water and sewerage network. This will expand the number of users of one network and other networks. What is also important is that certain funds will be spent to improve the functioning of public utility companies. When I say public utility companies, I mean management, that is, the management structure of these public utility companies. When all is collected, the number of inhabitants who will benefit directly from the realisation of this loan is about 800,000, so many people will have better water supply in the coming period than they have so far. In my discussion, I said that the total value of this loan is 43,000,000 dinars, 25,000,000 dinars is the loan of Germany's KfW Development Bank, fourteen million is the grant from the German government through their respective economic co-operation and development ministry, and two and a few million is so-called. The contribution of the European Union, also grants. When all that is collected as grants in the first and second parts, it is a total of 27,000,000 euros in grants, which will be invested in our municipal enterprises, water companies in these eight municipalities and cities, and the loan is 25,000,000 euros. What's also important to say, this loan is taken for 15 years. When it's all added up, the interest will be 6.17%. I think it will in some way be a great incentive for local self-governments to think about the development of water infrastructure and, in general, the development of infrastructure. It should also be borne in mind that the implementation of this programme means a large amount of construction work. I am absolutely certain that local construction operations will benefit greatly because they will have to perform works in these municipalities. This, on the other hand, will mean hiring people to implement these projects, which will also have a financial effect on the salaries of these people who will work on these jobs. What is planned is that this project will start now, that is, in 2010 and will continue in the next period. So the realisation of this loan should allow much better water supply. When I say much better water supply, it means increasing the amount of water, increasing the quality of water used by citizens in these eight municipalities and cities. The quality of the sewage network should also be improved, i.e. to consider some of the things that are related to wastewater treatment plants. In the end, the development of the infrastructure of one society is a basis for all to be better. The development of infrastructure is something that also enables people to do these jobs, but is also the basis for attracting investors, which will bring new technology and create new jobs. Simply, without good infrastructure, I am absolutely certain, in cities and municipalities, and in the country in general, investors flee from these cities, municipalities, and eventually from the state. All this about infrastructure development and investment in G17 plus infrastructure will always support it as a parliamentary group. These are good proposals and in the voting day G17 plus will support both of these laws and expects other parliamentary groups to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36381	Thank you. The word is by MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36382	Ladies and gentlemen, the first contract was concluded with the German Development Bank and it is interesting that it was signed on 21 December 2009, following the signing of a letter on the intentions of the governor, the finance minister and the prime minister of the IMF on 3 December 2009, if I am not mistaken. The contract is worth forty-two billion euros. It is very interesting what is stated already in the preamble of the contract. It is said that the basis of the treaty of negotiations between the Federal Republic of Germany and Serbia since 14 April 2005, on 11 October 2006, on 19 November 2007, on 17 October 2008. The preamble also mentions the European Commission. So we already see that there are only economic elements, but there are also political elements. Also mentioned is the Development Bank of the Council of Europe and again, as in other contracts that we have had the opportunity to analyse here, is talking about some extra costs. What's concrete, again we don't know, we can only guess that these are foreign experts who are going to build that water line, who are going to be involved in solving these communal problems. The specific loan has a value of 25,000,000 euros. On the other hand, even KfW provides a so-called 14.850,000-euro grant. And, of course, the EU, which is reportedly well-intentioned towards Serbia in economic, political and other terms, gives about 2,600,000 euros. In this context, but in Article 4, it is seen that it is not a charity contract, nor a gift, nor a donation, as Article 4 states - if the loan is not paid within the time limit, the commission is about 0.25%. It's a practical punishment. Also, if in these municipalities that you have listed a job is not organised properly, we can also have 0.5% of the total amount of loans. These aren't small funds and they should have been listed. Of course, Article 5 of this Treaty also shows that this is an unfavourable loan, and then I will tell you that it is politically harmful for this country, not only economically, because the interest on the loan is 6.17%. The loan is due to be returned by 2024, and Article 6 sets out fees for early payment. Article 7 lists the tight interest rates. This has little to do with these EU and German development banks' charity motives, as the tightening interest is 300 air points above the annual interest rate of Germany's central bank. You can see it's a very serious punishment. Of course, as in all previous contracts, Article 9 states that all costs related to the payment and payment of loans are borne by the Republic of Serbia, the borrower. Once again, Article 10 of this Treaty suggests that there are no detailed indications of who will do this, whether our or foreign companies, that independent engineers and competent companies should be involved in the preparation of the programme in relation to this contract, and that contracts for goods and services should be awarded through an international, national or limited national procurement procedure. This is actually causing a kind of misunderstanding. I would like to make a mistake and that our companies will get it, that it will be our experts, however, so far experience does not give cause for optimism. Article 10 also states the basic purpose of this Treaty, among other things, and the basic purpose of this contract with the German Development Bank, which is behind which the European Commission and the EU is propaganda. Why? Article 10 states that it is necessary to provide publications and information that have an EU logo and show that the EU is financing these projects. You know, when you give someone a gift or you have humanitarian motives or you give donations, from a moral point of view, it's a little inappropriate to point out who did it, and if we were to say that there is a kind of malice by Brussels and the European Commission, then we'd say it's a kind of political lobbying and propaganda in a non-EU country. On the other hand, from a legal point of view, not only of economic nature, it can be said that Article 11 lists one provision for which serious negotiators, who do not have a kind of complex (not you personally) of lower value than Brussels, would not allow it to be in that contract. Article 11 states that the contract can be terminated if some information, according to the German Development Bank, is not correct. What does that mean specifically? It doesn't mean anything. They have a discretionary right to declare any information crucial and in this sense the Treaty will be terminated, tight interest payments will be paid and the Republic of Serbia will have damages again. Also, Article 11 concludes that the German Development Bank can, without any detailed indications, conclude that the economic situation in Serbia has deteriorated. What does that mean from their point of view? What does that mean from our point of view? That's very disputable. I will prove to you by the following members that Serbia came with this contract, both from the legal and economic point of view, in an unfavourable situation because arbitration was done in Frankfurt. In postgraduate studies at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, there is an object called International Economic Law. In this textbook, there is an entire area called arbitration law. The first lessons in the area are that the most famous, safest arbitration in Europe, and probably in the world, the one in Paris, behind which the International Chamber of Commerce stands. It was founded in 1923. For over seventy-eighty years, he has resolved disputes between states, banks and precisely these disputes that may occur on the basis of members 11 and other members in this contract. However, we chose arbitration in Frankfurt. I don't see why it favors the German Development Bank when there was a variant... You also know for a fact that there is an arbitration in Zurich, even older than this one in Paris, from 1911, also prominent, with a large number of solved cases. Of course, the contract with the German Development Bank must be observed in a broader context. You know, when you're looking at something in the economy and politics, then you can claim anything. Of course, it's a kind of half-truth. I'll remind you, you know that, and your colleague Diana Dragutinović, that in 1991 and 1992 the Nobel Prize for Economics was given to people who insisted on using methods that take into account the context in economic science. I'm not quoting anti-globalists, not anyone, but people who worked in Chicago, at that school where the neoliberal concept was represented. Gary Becker argues, for example – when responsible authorities come up with and choose social arrangements they need to take into account the overall effect. What is the overall effect of our co-operation with the EU, with the German Development Bank, with Germany? It's not great wisdom to prove he's negative, and I'm going to give you an example. We, according to the Bureau of Statistics, had an external trade with the world worth about 15 billion euros in the first eleven months of 2009. I took the year 2009, crisis year. Of that, imports amounted to 10 billion euros, exports of about 5.4 billion euros. So over five billion euros went or transferred from Serbia to the world. Our largest foreign trade partner is the European Union. That, by the way, is what the authorities and all those who advocate an unrealistic EU policy without an alternative point out as an argument. However, if we take that argument into account, we will conclude that over 2.5 billion euros have gone from Serbia to the EU in the first eleven months of 2009. Now to argue that the 25,000,000-euro contract with the German Development Bank is crucial, that it will bring prosperity in Serbia, if you know that 2.5 billion euros is going to the EU on the other hand, you will see that the argument does not stand. On the other hand, specifically for Germany, which is allegedly such a donor and is so well-intentioned towards Serbia in economic terms, the following can be said: out of those 2.5 billion euros heading towards the EU, the majority is heading towards Germany. Why? Because Germany is the largest exporter in the world after China, Germany is 63% of its exports to European countries. Besides, German bankers don't hide that their biggest friend is just exporting. The trade between Serbia and Germany since 2001, I will not take 2000 as the year that took place after the regime changed and due to easier external trade after 2000, the total exchange in 2001 led to a deficit in the trade with Germany of $319.000,000 and $1562,000,000 in 2008. Look at the negative rise of the deficit in our exchange with Germany. When we add all that data from 2001 to 2009, we come to the fact that 5,800,000 euros have been transferred from Serbia to Germany (this is neutral, without any sharpness and political interference, just comparing the figures). Of course, this fact needs to be hidden. How are we gonna do that? Only by extracting from the context of a contract, which has some useful parts of it, but when you look at that 5,800,000 euros went from Serbia to Germany for the past eight years, and to receive allegedly some donations (a large question of how they are exploited) from 10 to 20m euros, we get a 25,000,000-euro contract, you will see that economic co-operation with Germany is harmful to Serbia. That shows a transfer of money. This situation is getting worse and worse. Also, I cannot understand that after this crisis and all that has happened, even though it has not formally changed the rhetoric of the ruling parties, because even in the European Commission, which has received a new Commissioner for Trade and Finance (Michel Barnier) is being threatened (we disagree with those terms, this opposite side) is being used by the iron fist in the supervision of bankers. We have a completely different situation. With us, it is possible that banks, foreign banks, Western banks have annual interest rates that exceed 25% to 30%. That's amazing. Also, the new European Finance Commissioner said he is a supporter of protectionism. The opposite process is happening with us, the transitional trade agreement is being adopted, i.e. unilateral application of the trade agreement, essentially, destroys customs revenues. It can be said that this is only a transitional station on the way to the EU, that we must show good will, that we must co-operate with Germany and the EU in order to get it back over multiple benefits when Serbia, although we are against it, is one day entering the EU for economic and political reasons. However, that argument can also be challenged. Bulgaria was denied 6.4 billion euros from the so-called help program. The justification was that corruption in Bulgaria, that there is a major crime in Bulgaria. It's possible, but it's double standards. I'll just give you a few facts. More specifically, it is an excuse to deny Bulgaria's assistance. Peter Mendelson, a former EU trade commissioner, is the character of corruption. The same can be said for senior officials of EU leading countries Tony Blair, Allen Zipe, etc. On the other hand, a synonym for crime and corruption is probably one of the most developed countries in Western Europe – Italy. You saw, there were 100,000 tons of garbage in Naples for months on the streets because of problems caused by a criminal organization that controlled the recycling of that garbage. These standards are double and apply only to Eastern European countries. Also, the Bulgarian Parliament's commission said only 1.3% of the so-called spent period from 2007 to this year. assistance from the EU programme, about 200m euros. They were promised several billion euros, they received about 200m euros. It is the practice of the EU and these are the facts. At the same time, our neighbour Bulgaria, who is supposed to be our model on its way to the EU, registered only a 3% increase in unemployment last year, a 14% drop in industrial production, a six billion dollar balance of payments deficit, an external trade deficit of over six billion dollars. Now we're coming back to this contract and the topic that was at the beginning of this exhibition. Do you know who Bulgaria's main foreign trade partner is? It's Germany right now. This unilateral policy that the European Union has no alternative and that all economic requirements should be met has led Bulgaria, which by population, economy, labour force, the communist past can be compared to our country, has $50 billion debt per day 31. 12. In 2009. On the other hand, an argument can be made that by applying these European standards and European credits, we will be able to export to the EU market of five hundred million people. That's not true, too. Our biggest foreign trade exchange expert and non-tariff barriers from the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade, Predrag Bjelic, argues that since the removal of customs barriers in trade with the EU, imports will benefit the most and that the actual monopolies holding this market, importing, will set prices. Here we also come up with concrete names, to Mr. Miskovic, who, I do not know on what basis, participated in the Economic Forum. He will have, since he is a monopoliest, it is not our data, it is the data of the lady who is the president of the Competition Protection Commission, the most useful of the so-called. Cooperation with the European Union. We're not taking sides with him, nor are we, as some of the authorities, foreign banks, nor are we going into that conflict. We believe both foreign banks and monopolies are equally harmful to the economy and to the citizens of this country. We believe that if credit arrangements are already to be entered, the only real choice, which has an economic logic, is to give credit to exporting companies, export credits, incentives and to enter credit arrangements with countries that will not be politically threatening and that will not ask for tables to be placed, to recognise Kosovo's independence, that one political option is forced at all costs, whether it is better for the country or not, but will simply be determined according to concrete projects. In this sense, I conclude, the Russian ambassador's statement is indicative, which said our authorities had not delivered any projects for obtaining Russian credit within the scheduled time limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36383	The People's Messenger Velimir Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36384	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I am uncomfortable to discuss in this House duties, loans, credit lines, and nothing serious is happening in Serbia. The funds are taken, we're in debt, but, believe me, there are no more serious investments. We've heard a lot of stories here about gas storage. We talked about it. It's been said that there's some NIP funds missing for equipment, that it's coming to an end and that it needs to be finished. Now we're talking about some loan that's extremely big, huge, that these people in "Srbigas" act like drunken billionaires, debauchery, wasteful, sponsoring everything and everything, doing literally whatever they want, collecting gas, at once 60%, 30%, now announcing a new collection, etc. We've never seen such arrogant behavior anywhere. The board of directors shut up, everybody shut up. Is it possible to discuss business in this House once? If the whole NIS was sold, in privatisation, some contracts were made, I remember perfectly what was agreed on by the "Banatski Dvor" and all because I signed the contract in Moscow, I was a signer. Now "Serbigas" has gone rogue. Literally, do what he wants. They lead some of their own politics, and here's where they're taking us - into so many responsibilities. No one in Serbia will introduce gas anymore. Look around the cities, people turn off the gas. He's asking to shut them down because it's expensive. It's getting cheaper than gas. Why? Why is gas so expensive? What are the salaries in “Serbiagas”? Sponsorships? What are the salaries of the board members? There's no such waste anywhere. Today we've talked about some public enterprises, and I have to repeat all that, which are so arrogant and wasteful. We're listening to the ministers coming, who are part of that arrogant system that literally does what they want. When the elections in Vrbas were "Serbigas" was the main one there in Odzac; "Srbigas" rented a hotel, "Srbigas" sponsored, "Srbigas" paid. They're splitting up in Negota's stove now, jeans. Ministers share jeans. Guys, are we a normal world? The sputums. The stove deckers came to the square and shared the stove, for the sake of that handful of power. All of this has to be paid now. Now we have to put Serbia in charge so that those fellows in Vojvodina can behave so arrogantly, it will fall apart. I would have appointed the director of Serbia's "Serbiagas" in the south to make them a little harder, to put them in a little bit. This Vojvodina Capital Fund has taken great resources to complete the Banatski Dvor, water streams to take care of it. For the Pančeva Bridge, complete funds were withdrawn and were to be completed, reconstructed, all spent. Just smile and spend it, but one day the bills will have to be settled here in parliament. Someone's gonna come in here and make the bills, and it's gonna have to be real quick. You're playing with the auditor. The auditor is sacred in one state. When he says something, it goes to debate. And you don't care. Spending some kids there, having counselors, having whatever they wanted. So, what did they do? Why is he late for the Banatian Court? Why aren't the contracts of the agreement respected? Why did “Serbigas ” rebel and literally do what he wanted? The board members get good salaries, sit there and don't care what happens. Therefore, the Vojvodina Capital Fund has swallowed billions of this country. He took the bank. Look out, Vojvodina has a bank, "Vojvodjanska Banka", famous in this country, a good bank. But they found Metals Bank, a bank founded by the biggest criminals in the country and started working with it. I don't know whose bank it's gonna be now, but I'm really interested in when these investigations started, so to find out, who's the boss of that bank? Whose capital is that inside? Why does Paytich keep that kind of money there? How do you spend that kind of money? Who decides about that money? Why aren't the waterways for which the money has been set up? Why, gentlemen, are we taking so many loans and pushing this happy company out of the capital fund? Now, 80% of the loans you're taking are pushing Pitiæ and his company there. How does that go away? Give us a loan to build us a freeway. And when they come here, they say -- we don't give our money, and you from Serbia, via the Danube and the Sava, give us our money, pay us our loans, we can spend a lot of good and good. Gentlemen, this is not good. No such duties have been recorded. What's the NIP for? Do they have money there, Madam Minister? What are you sitting there for? What does the ministry live on? Why was that made? To spend some money rationally, on investments in Serbia, new employment, infrastructure, etc. You're in charge, you're in charge, you're in charge, you're in charge, you're in charge, but it's not you, it's the state. Look out for one thing, we haven't solved any problems. We have three times as many duties as the total capital of "Srbigas". Are you thinking about how we're going to get out of this problem? We're looking for gas collection again. Who's gonna pay for it? In what way? Dulic will come, as he came yesterday, to find the company Nuba Invest, to give her a job without a license, without anything, to do a optic cable, and EPS has raised a loan to 32,000,000 euros and installed a whole system of optical cables that are enough for all of Serbia and connect us with all the countries in the environment. The EPS currently has 80% free capacity. Who authorized Dulic to give a job to someone without a RATEL license, who has three thousand euros in the account, without any director, without any employees? That's not normal. Yesterday he explained to me that it's normal. Explain whether it's normal or not. We will be pushing billions of euros into some white-world criminals to push into their pockets, to get rich, and the country will be in debt. We've invested in this optical cable, we're in charge of this parliament as a state, 32,000,000 euros, and now he's found a hole in a pothole to give some private to take over, and we all know it's a coin coin. Who's the boss of the firm? It would be as if you came to taxi: you filed a request to open a taxi service, he asks you – give me a driver's license. You say - I don't have a driver's license, I want to be a cab driver. He says he can't, man. He can't even work in telecommunications when he doesn't have a license, he doesn't have a RATEL license. He can't. It's the personal minister... And he praised himself yesterday that he pushed five million euros in this country through the roads, that he had personally gone to the company and had picked up those consents. Yes, but did he get consent... (President: Mr. Ilich, excuse me, come back, please, on the subject. I'll be back on the subject. The theme is very interesting. So, do you know, as far as this second loan is concerned, that in the 21st century Serbia has no drinking water? I welcome the initiative to raise these funds and put people in a position to have drinking water. Do you know that 15,000,000 needs to be used for water in northern Mitrovica, that people don't have water to drink and that this government didn't want the budgets that were planned to transfer to them, but they spent these money that was intended, for the campaign in Leposavic, and here in Mitrovica, etc. No water was done, and in the budget for last year, Mrs Kalanovic, 15,000,000 euros were scheduled to end, for people in northern Kosovo to drink water. Do you know that the whole Banat has no drinking water? Do the MPs from Banat know they don't have any water to drink? How much does that cost? It was said from the NIP, I remember perfectly, when the NIP was made and when Gilas was headed by the NIP, it was said that the first investment would be a water supply system for Banat. What was that? Nothing. Where's the money? There's no money. So, do you know that five municipalities, Chačak, Milanovac, Luciani, Ariel, Požega, have no water all summer to drink? Why? They don't have a dam, but they drink directly from the waterfall. As soon as they're hot, dry, there's no drinking water. The investment costs 60,000,000 euros to end. Sometimes it's started, but it's not finished. People don't have water to drink in the 21st century. Not to mention other cities, where asbestos pipes are, where there are thousands of problems, etc. Someone in the world wants to help us, but they're afraid that they're not spending that money in similar ways again. If these boys from the Duke's Capital Fund grab what belongs to Vojvodina, there's nothing to it. They're angels for money. I remember perfectly, here, and the Panchea Bridge, did they do it? No, they're not. Is it possible to do Gazela? He can't. Why? Because the city of Belgrade didn't want to. The money that was planned for that move has been spent. Five times so far he could get rid of it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do Therefore, the duties, Madam Minister, only duties and we will come to a very difficult situation. I'm saying it won't get that far with all these duties. You're now going out ambitiously, four highways, bridges. Here, I'm listening to Dulic yesterday, he's talking. Guys, learn something, read it. Let's do it here, we MPs are going to organize a seminar for ministers, to learn basics. We volunteer to give you a few lectures, see what's going on, and you'll figure out what the problem is. You can't talk about how much a kilometer of asphalt costs in a flat part of Vojvodina if someone did the infrastructure of that highway. Do you know how much the Temerian loop costs? Fifty million euros, ma'am. Do you have any idea how much the newest intersection costs? Thirty million, ma'am. The Beška Bridge – 56,000,000 euros, the Batajnica loop – 60,000,000 euros. When all this is done, then you put those pieces together and you say... And do you know how many overpasses were done, underpasses, crossings, etc., cables, fences and everything the regulations require, so electricity, electrification, etc? You're just saying now, how cheap I've done a mile of asphalt in Vojvodina, and how much they've spent, for example, on a bypass or on another part of the Duke's road. Yes, but when you run a full profile of the highway, the highway's infrastructure is more expensive than the construction of the lane itself. So you need to learn that and you need to know that. We in Serbia have many bad ways. Why? Because, gentlemen, we have the worst bitumen in Europe. The state's pushing to buy bitumen, which is extremely poor quality, so the road can't put together for three years, so the refineries can do business. We now expect something to happen for the sale of NIS. The total funds received from the NIS cannot cover, the maltenes, the funds required by "Serbigasu", in one piece to stand on their feet. You see how much we owe this company. How's she gonna do business? They're going to cut 60% of the purchases, one more, 80%. I can't take it seriously for the director or the minister or anyone to come out and suggest picking something up at once by 60% or 80%. It's an insane thing! No normal man in one serious state should go to parliament and propose. You've been penetrating your cheeks and you're just pushing. It doesn't matter, getting into replicas with you, and arguing, it's a waste of time. This is what I wanted to tell you, and that's why I'm glad I told you, and you do whatever you want. You owe this country, but someone will ask tomorrow why the EPS is in charge, if Dulic is now making another system. How will the EPS repay the loan if it is not used? How will NIS, or “Serbiagas” repay the loan? How are certain loans going to come back? Why is it that so much time has been lost in connection with the Roma settlement to prove that someone is right, while the works have been collected by 34,000 euros? So these are all the problems this people have to pay for. See what the obligations are, see now why you don't build a sewer and everything else that's related to legalization. There's no people to legalize. There may be 50 euros, but there's no money, gone. Go doesn't strip, gentlemen, and there's no place to pay because the people don't work, there's no job. Companies don't work, layoffs are maximum. You will come here again, bring a package of laws with new responsibilities, and, of course, we will get Greece and these others very soon, we are not far. Don't get so carried away that we can do something without money, without work and without blood work. The ruling coalition must understand that it would have to employ a working-age population to remain in power. This measures the success of the ruling coalition. For the ruling coalition, which daily lays off workers from work, it cannot be said that it is successful, and the state is in charge, in charge, and in debt. No investment has been made. Where's the money from the Mobtel sale, ma'am? When we left, the government, we left a full register, three billion euros, from the "Mobtel", from "The Slave Houses" and from the third operator. Surely, ask Minister Cvetkovic, there are papers on this. You spent on the most expensive campaign in Serbia's history. You promised planes, trucks, the Banatski Dvor was about to work. That's when you said in the campaign that it took 20m euros to work "Banatski Dvor", only for equipment, and everything else is ready. Now they need loans. How long? So, you do what you want, but one day you'll be putting accounts here in parliament for all these missed investments. How far did it go to some ski resorts where they're standing in nettles, where no one comes, doesn't approach? Why is the Kopalnik now the most expensive in Europe? How does Cole, your former director of the Democratic Party, work on the Kopalnik? How many guests do you have upstairs? Why did everyone escape to other countries? These are the questions you need to discuss a little bit. Only you can walk on the bathroom and hold some of your symposiums, seminars, forums, as you call it. As long as Miskovic sits in front of you, there's nothing from you, I guarantee it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36385	I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a joint single search of the application for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted by PUPS parliamentary groups, G17 plus, DSS and the SRS. I give my word to the People's MP, Miroslava Pejica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36386	Dear Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to dedicate my presentation today to the proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement and financing between KfW Bank and the Republic of Serbia. I believe that the programme is designed to support measures to modernise and revitalise water and sewage infrastructure in municipalities and cities of medium size, of particular importance to many local self-governments. His benefits are based on the financial relief he brings. Of those 42.5m euros, the Republic of Serbia as a borrower receives 15m euros in financial contribution, as well as a contribution from the European Union of over 2.5m euros. In addition, I believe that part of 25m euros and interest on that amount is given a view of a favourable way of borrowing. As the title of the programme itself says, its purpose is to cities and municipalities of medium size. Since I come from Loznica, which is a typical example of such an environment, I know that such problems exist in that area. The causes of the problem first rest in the obsolescence of the water-canalisation network, which is over 40 years old. In addition to the effects of obsolescence, which are largely seen in huge losses for public enterprises dealing with water supply and their negative performance, there are also many problems that have arisen as a result of the unplanned integration of a large number of users to existing infrastructures. All this points to the need for urgent rehabilitation of existing water supply systems. As the debate on the second phase of this programme is on the agenda today, I must point out that Loznica is one of the cities that were covered by the first stage. I want to take this opportunity to introduce you to the purpose and significance of this project that has been realized in seven other cities and municipalities. The aim of this phase was to ensure continued and hygienicly acceptable supply of drinking water, as well as to improve the disposal of sewage content. In addition to improving the living conditions of the population, special attention is paid to the fact that the prices covered by the costs incurred have a socially acceptable character, which means that the prices of public enterprises engaged in this activity must not in any way exceed the amount of 5% of the income that citizens make. The works that included the first stage consisted of solving problems on the ground. In addition to the already mentioned resuscitation of networks, the replacement of plumbers, it also covered the development of a feasibility study and the implementation of additional measures. In addition to the direct benefits of local self-government covered by the first phase, it must certainly not be ignored that indirect effects, which have mostly been mirrored in significant means freed in this way and disbursed by municipal budgets. These funds have shifted municipalities to address some other problems identified as priorities in these environments by citizens and authorities. Since the first phase of this pilot project covers the implementation of eight municipalities, KfW, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, represented by the Ministry of the National Investment Plan, and local self-government, has seen very good results everywhere and positive experiences similar to those in my city. I am pleased that today we have before us a confirmation of the second stage contract of this programme, which includes six other cities and municipalities in addition to the previous eight cities. The basic value of the continuity of this way of funding and lending rests in that it implies the implementation of the feasibility study done in the previous phase, which means that this phase next to the revitalisation and recovery measures of the existing water-canalisation infrastructure covered and the construction of completely new capacities, which I know are the primary needs of all these environments. The important argument that speaks for the purpose of signing this loan and financing contract is certainly that the realisation of all these projects covered by this programme is unimaginable only from the funds of local self-government, and without support from both the Republic of Serbia and the EU development funds. At the end of my presentation, I would like to say that in the voting day the G17 Parliament Club plus will support this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36387	Thank you. Mr. Miroslav Petkovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36388	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Reverend Mrs Kalanovic, I expected Mrs Diana Dragutinovic to be sitting in your seat today, but you, as one of the 26 ministers in the Serbian government, are in the most numerous, most massive and expensive government in the world, come today to explain how you will bring Serbia out of the crisis. Former US President Gerald Ford said: “The government is big enough to give you everything, big enough to take away everything you have. ” You've shown that in practice, because this government was big enough to make numerous and false promises, but it wasn't able to solve many problems. On the contrary, it led us to the edge of the abyss, hopelessness. According to official data, 700,000 people living below the poverty line have been brought to the brink of hunger. When the crisis occurred, and every normal, every well-intentioned one could understand that the crisis was also affecting Serbia, the government did not recognise the biggest problems. The Democratic Party of Serbia has pointed to certain possibilities, proposed certain urgent measures, certain laws, but your ego, your expertise and experience were not the people to accept the outstretched hand, but rather, with great delay, you took those steps that we proposed. Deputy Prime Minister, at least that economic part, said the crisis would bypass Serbia, that the crisis was our developmental chance. But then it fell rolling, then the ceiling collapsed, and then it was dark, and then you decided that you would not drink mineral water at the government's coffee sessions to save some Serbian citizens' dinar. The rhetoric of experts, unfortunately former finance ministers, one of whom is the Prime Minister, is two deputy prime ministers, but also other ministers who are based in this divided orchestra of Mr Cvetkovic, suddenly changed, and the global economic crisis has suddenly become the biggest cause of the problem and the biggest problem of the economy in the Republic of Serbia. We tried to show you, before those devastating consequences, where this government takes us, where your policy leads us, where your different attitudes lead us, different suggestions. You were deaf to all those solutions and all those suggestions. Your later mind made you a little conscious, so you accepted, I remind you, the Deposit Insurance Act and a series of other proposals that we went out with as a parliamentary group in this House. Prime Minister Cvetkovic likes to say that the government has taken certain appropriate measures, by either being adequate or selective, or being very late. One of these adequate measures is an agreement with the IMF, which the government has concluded, where one part predicts that pensions are also frozen in 2010. You subsequently announced the possibility of revising this agreement. We'll see how it goes, but the Prime Minister said in Kopalnik the other day, quote: "The government has no problem formulating economic policy, but cannot resolve conflicting interests." The Prime Minister calls for caution. He avoids giving concrete answers because he will not bring himself into an awkward situation that next year at a seminar in Kopalnik he must deny what he said. Minister Dinkic announces an increase in wages and pensions. Mr. Djelic strongly opposes it. Mrs. Diana Dragutinovic, as finance minister, announced that before the 2011 budget was adopted, none of it had anything to do with it. Believe me, it's not easy living in this schizophrenic situation. The governor of the NBS said on 30 November 2009 that Serbia is too fast in debt, but that it is not threatened by the debt crisis. Yesterday on the Kopalnik, he said he was threatening us with a Greek script. Unlike Greece, Serbia has no islands to offer for sale. According to all indicators, Serbia's level of duty will increase further in this and next year, and this suggests that we will soon become highly in charge of the countries. No one in the government, not even you, at least we haven't heard of it today, is involved in the management of foreign debt. You took loans from the IMF, the World Bank, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Investment Bank, the EU, China and Russia. Since the finance minister isn't here, can you tell us which door we're going to knock on, who we're going to pull by the sleeve again by 10, 20, 50 or 100 million euros, or have we emptied all these possibilities? You tell us that secret, and we'll be grateful for it. In 2009, you withdrew only part of these loans, which means we are just expected to borrow and withdraw those funds in 2010, 2011 and the following years. I could understand certain borrowings for new investment and development, but I remind you that Serbia spends seven times as much on wages and pensions as on public investment. You, as Government, have brought us into a vicious cycle of indifference, and it is obvious that you need some new Thomas More, who will present us with a new utopia, in which we will believe in this Serbia. The total external debt of the Republic of Serbia was 22,787,000,000 euros at the end of 2009. A huge part of that debt is a private public debt. I remind you, it is a debt of banks and businesses operating in Serbia. In order to pay back that debt, our companies have to secure foreign exchanges. I'm asking you -- how? Will the owners of these companies come down to their basements and stand and print these foreign exchanges or will they have to earn them by performing their goods and their services? The companies are legal entities of the Republic of Serbia. So they function, they exist in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It is not a spell in heaven or on earth, but a company that works in the Republic of Serbia. I warn you, and Mr. Obradovic has made this very clear in his statement, that the state of Serbia, if there is bankruptcy in these companies, will have to service those debts and pay them back. Imagine how much these amounts are, if, for example, this 320,000,000 loan a public company cannot service in the coming years. You have an example of Iceland, no matter how it works. Do not expect that the EU will not set a similar condition before the Republic of Serbia. Today you came before the MPs with a new borrowing and a reprogramme of old debts. On the other hand, the National Bank of Serbia is holding foreign exchange reserves, some of which have also come out of debt. We have a lack of new investment, at least in the extent that you predicted it would happen this year. We are likely to be expected to sell irrationally some companies under extremely unfavourable conditions, at lower prices than they are worth, for covering the gaps in the budget. Then we will not be helped by the archipelago, to have it in Serbia. The big problem is that instead of responsible and real politics, you run a salon, seminar and congress policy. Mirko Cvetkovic and his government are skiing down the Sun Valley these days (let me remind you, this is one easy track and quite wide), and then, with the help of the saucers, they are coming out of Gobelje, you can connect with the path Jaram. I fear that the yoke that you have imposed on the citizens of Serbia is quite difficult and that they will not be able to endure it easily. The four-seater, famous, who drives the quarter of Cvetkovic, Dragutinović, Dinkic and Djelic on Black Dubok, a series that they descend... I remind you, that trail is pretty heavy, it's pretty frozen in the end, and it's not easy to get over. In the end, that the citizens of Serbia don't think I forgot about Mr Tadic. He said in November last year – we are in debt and it is dangerous, but everything we are in debt, and it will use generations to come, it is morally justified. Mrs Kalanovic, Ministers, President of the Republic, do not borrow from the future, because what policy this government is leading, Serbia has no future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36389	National MP Nikola Krpić has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36390	Madam President, respected Mrs Kalanovic, funds from the International Bank, i.e. the German Development Bank, invested in the reconstruction of the water network will be well recovered and used. When it comes to these eight municipalities you've chosen, I think it'll give a boost to their utility companies and local self-government to move forward, because all these municipalities have big problems about drinking water supply and water reconstruction. If we know something from chemistry, that asbestos tubes are carcinogenic, and there are them in these municipalities, and all the medical statistics say that the high percentage of oncology or disease in this country, from young children to young, pregnant and old, is certainly something to be commended, you personally, your secretariat, or your investment plan and the government itself, which thinks about your people and people. It's hard to live in Banat when the outside temperature is 30 or 40 degrees without having anywhere to drink a glass of water. It's terrible, too, that in other cities people don't have that glass of water. I think this is for every commendation, many will now drink that healthy water. On the other hand, there's not much to be feared about this, because this investment programme will withdraw, that's what the predecessors said, and something from local self-government and employ labour, etc., but in the second part of the budget, at the Ministry of Health, will release funds that have been spent on epidemics, which is incorrect water in schools, hospitals, health homes and how it requires. It's terrible to see the child he's looking for, and there's no water. On the other hand, the other day, we were also talking here about legalizing the facilities. As long as the facility isn't legalized, it's our law, it can't be connected to water and sewerage. Now this is another incentive, these people who have erected their buildings on the edges of the municipalities, and the objects with what you've done, which for every praise, will get that glass of water. If we consider that somewhere very old households, an old lady, took them long enough to go, 100, 200 or 300 meters, one glass of water. Therefore, I assure you and I promise that all these funds will be well used, and that the MPs of the United Pensions Party will vote in the voting day for what you have today made the citizens of Serbia and us MPs happy. Thank you very much, and just keep going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36391	The word comes from MP Dragan Stevanovic, followed by MP Milos Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36392	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, you see, Mrs Kalanovic, we are not afraid of the water that citizens should drink, and they will be provided through these loans, but we are afraid of credits that are being charged to those who will pay them, as this credit arrangement says in 2024. In the first part of my story, I am not talking about the rate of these loans, but about the borrowing policy run by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which, in the SRS' opinion, is really not good and in every sense is a good prerequisite for Serbia to enter a debt crisis. You see, what arises as a problem is the fact that both the scientific and professional public say that Serbia is slowly but surely going to highly in charge of the countries. It concludes that Serbia cannot manage its debt, especially its external debt. To support that with facts and figures, I will tell you that in the period since you came to power, and you from G17 plus have been in power for all ten years since DOS came to power, the average debt per capita from $1,400-1,500 has increased to $4,500 today. Our question for you who represent this government is – what did Serbia gain in reciprocity for it? When you analyze the economic environment we live in today, you really have nothing to brag about. I'll illustrate it to you on very specific examples, but what I have to say is – will we experience that one of you, who represents the government, and who deals with the economy in one way or another, in any legal project at least in one part, is critical and says that something is not quite right here? It's all good for you. Especially good loans. You're good at credit and credit, because you're gonna spend money, and our kids are gonna pay them back. That's what we can't agree on. What did Serbia get? Serbia is today a country where two key people who run the economy in this country cannot agree whether in this country this year we will raise the salary to the public sector or not. Then the genius vice president of the government remembers to say -- you know, industrial production increased by 3.5% in February, and that's a good indicator that we've been raising public sector wages since September, and keep quiet that industrial production fell by 12.5% in January, so when you take it and put it into a relationship, you figure out how much industrial production has to grow by the end of the first quarter, it's clear to you. On the other hand, the finance minister has a completely conflicting view. A government that cannot make itself a consensus on the most important things cannot create a healthy economic environment. You, Madam Minister, are the government minister in the region who has the highest salary in the public sector, but at the same time you are behind Albania and Macedonia in the process of creating a business environment. Can you boast of the investments in the last year, in the last two years? Can you promise Serbia investments in 2010? Perhaps it is better not to promise them, because when your group promises them, then it ends up as "Zamber" in Vranj. Can you boast of the stability of the course? For each drop in dinar value for one dinar, Serbia is more in charge of nearly 30 billion dinars. These are the parameters you have to manage when you make decisions to owe this country extra. Because of the fact that you've been withdrawing your loans to pay Bojan Krišti's wages and to question others like this, perhaps correct, projects. Serbia has problems with both water supply and wastewater treatment, and you are absolutely right there, and with losses and quality, but I will talk about it later. What about unemployment? In the same processing industry in a year, you fired 60,000 people. How many people in Serbia today cannot exercise their right to health insurance because the government, where you are sitting too, cannot force owners to settle their obligations to workers? Here's an example from my municipality: over 135,000 dinars the owner of the Cat factory owes to his workers. There are executive court decisions to settle obligations to workers. There's no one who can make him do it. Do you know what he got in return? He was privileged to sit at the Economic Forum in Kopalnik with Mirko Cvetkovic and, together with others, create the country's economic policy in the coming period. Does this country have a stable capital market? The only thing that's stable is that banks are trading securities of value, and we're promoting it by taking down tax rates. That's good, it's not controversial, let's get down, but no one to react precisely from this group of ministries in the government, since they've been dealing with finance in this country for a decade, to the fact that in this country, the differences in interest on deposits and on dinar payments are up to eighteen times, all deaf and dumb, to that Javaljuk. Are our foreign exchange reserves stable, so we'll be able to pull millions and millions so bravely? It's easy for them because they're being spent. Today you have ten billion foreign exchange reserves. It is estimated to need between a billion and two billion to preserve the stability of the course. We need three billion euros for regular payments on an annual basis. Banks have suggested they will withdraw nearly four billion, on behalf of the release of the Vienna Agreement. How effective are we going to be, how much of these net effects will remain in the banks, or how much space will remain here for these reserves, so that we can feel economic stability, or something that will give us a guarantee that we can get into these arrangements? It's an economic environment that creates a policy that convinces us that these credit obligations are good. I say again, we do not dispute the need for the state to settle its municipal infrastructure, all that the municipal infrastructure means, that's good. At the local level, we have shown through examples that this is what needs to be done, but this is how casually, this is how we approach the fact that we're going to pull a hundred, two hundred, this much or this many million, so casually and easily talk about it, it really takes a lot of courage, or we don't have anything else. I don't know, you do the math. You have a country where you borrowed credit when the dinar rate was 80 dinars; today it's 100 dinars, the salaries remain at 80, but interest is calculated on a 100 dinar rate for one euro. There are a number of other things that no one wants to give an adequate answer to. You have a country where exports participate with only 20%, and in order to be stable, it has to be 60%, in GDP. Then the representatives of the state say -- you know, according to European standards, we're not over-indebted, we don't have 70% of the debt compared to GDP. Do you know what a European standard is? The European standard is a good practice not to go over GDP with 60% of the debt, but there is no state in the European Union that has not gone over it. They have economic stability, they have developed the export sector, so such credit obligations can afford, such a luxury can afford. We can't do that, because the state pays us for those who still work a little bit through the fact that they're paying the VAT the moment they put out the invoice, not when they charge for the job. It's an economic environment that you create and that you want to convince us that this borrowing will be worth it and that it's fine. When we talk about this municipal infrastructure, you, Mrs. Kalanovic, are really right, but analyze, say, where these eight municipalities are. I have to tell you that in southern Serbia, too, you drink bad water, so you keep in mind in the next redistribution of some funds. You hinted at Leskovac, but whether he's there or not, I don't know. It seems to us that somehow you have run a policy in decision-making, not needs, at least even regional development or, as you like to say, regionalisation, or decentralisation. Public enterprises at local level are indeed at a low and bad level today. This is a problem that hasn't occurred in the last year. I ask the question – how did these managements have no need for decades ago, have they not been aware that they needed their communal infrastructure to improve? How come they didn't see room for profit, so through the collection of these services, to make positive balance payments at the end of the year? All companies or almost all businesses are at your loss. I'll give you an example of the company from the municipality I come from. Eleven million dinars were lost in 2008. Do you know how they responded to that? By illegally raising public service prices, the Ministry of Trade and Services ordered them to return prices twice during 2009. They won't do it. There is no mechanism to force them to do so, so they decide at the assembly to retroactively raise the price of municipal services for a year; the solution does not publish in the "Official Messenger", and that is how it works. Dubios, from trouble to trouble. How do you ask them to deal with losses in the water network? How do you ask them to deal with wastewater problems? How many public enterprises in Serbia today have adequate water treatment facilities? How's the water-flow presy, especially in the rural environments? These problems exist objectively, but these kinds of responsibilities, these kinds of adventures, this kind of withdrawal of money in an economically dreary and persuasive area are indeed in the mildest form of adventure. That's why we can't support this, as much as you do with a smile, one way or another, watch. These are the adventures that will pay for generations that will be able to work in 2024, and you well consider what you are taking and what responsibility you are taking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36393	Thirteen minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word is by MP Milos Radulovic, followed by MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36394	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mrs Kalanovic, you have called on both parties from the ruling coalition and MPs from opposition parties to vote in favour of these borrowing laws. In doing so, you said that these are very important laws relating precisely to projects that are of strategic importance to Serbia and which are related to infrastructure. The fact is, these are infrastructure-related loans, but one part... and later I will refer to the question of these short-term credit refinancing commitments that have already been taken for specific projects. What interests me here, Mrs Kalanovic, is that at the end of December we had a debate here on one set of credit obligations relating to Corridor 10; at that time, the Minister of Infrastructure, Mr Mrkonjic, confirmed what I said, which is that 1,125,000 euros were provided for infrastructure projects, i.e. building a highway in Corridor 10. If it is already provided and if there are these funds, I ask you, Mrs Kalanovic, why has virtually none of these funds been used? In two years, your authorities have built only 40.5km of highways, although you take seven and a half, or eightkm of bypass around Belgrade, which was more or less completed. Why, Mrs Kalanovic, these funds have not been used, because we all know when we talk about Serbia's development chance we're just talking about Corridor 10 and the highway? When we held the debate on these loans, Mr. Mrkonjic has just confirmed our finding that there is a disagreement between the three ministries that claim to have these funds and to be the bearers of the highway construction programme. These are: the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of NIP and the Ministry of Spatial Planning. In doing so, Mr. Mrkonjic said that it is his right to have his ministry as the creator and bearer of these jobs. Mrs Kalanovic, the fact is, which also confirmed this counselling on the Kopalnik, that there are many dissonant tones and different opinions within the ruling coalition. This is what pressures and tortures all citizens of Serbia, because they are the ones who feel the greatest consequences of such a disagreement and the absence of a common platform for overcoming the crisis. I would refer to one part and this loan, and I would repeat what Mr. Obradovic told you and ask you why you even separated these two points concerning the borrowing of "Serbiagas", did you want to conceal that this is a much larger amount than the amount we are talking about now? The total debt is, the citizens of Serbia should know, based on only these two loans, 320,000,000 euros. What concerns us, the first set of loans we talked about is just a loan to refinance liabilities that already exist and to maintain liquidity. We haven't heard here how much money it takes to maintain liquidity from this loan, which is 150,000 euros. Mrs Kalanovic, I believe that if there is any conscience with you from the ruling coalition and if you share the fate of this people, all of us should put pressure on the fact that we are all thinking about the obligations that you have created for all citizens and who are being imposed on this country. It is something that not only in Serbia, not only in Kopalnik, is under discussion. Citizens are irritated, in addition to this and in addition to these discussions held in Kopalnik, by the fact that the Ministers who are up there, together with the Prime Minister, see the summit at Kopalnik as a tourist trip. That is exactly how you behave and what responsibilities you have for the citizens of Serbia. What concerns all of us here is that in these two discussions alone, we are discussing loans worth a total of 505,000 euros, which we discussed in December here on loans worth over 750,000 euros, which you borrowed last year from Serbia with 3,300,000 euros. Your way of survival and your view of how this country should function is exactly on these loans. You are also warned by economic experts from the country and economic experts from abroad that this is a completely wrong policy, and we MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia have repeatedly warned all of you, gentlemen from the ruling coalition and ministers, of the monster and the danger of excessive borrowing. I don't know if these words are coming to you and if you're even listening to the citizens of Serbia, the people who live in fear of your crazy borrowings. Are you aware of the circumstances and how Serbian citizens live, and is Serbia's future in debt? Mr. Simon Grey at the Kopalnik summit said that the biggest problem of this government is that you have 40 of the programs with which you see the future and the way to overcome the crisis, and that only one of these programs can be the solution to getting out of the crisis. It is obvious that you are too concerned with yourself, that you have ministers and vice presidents who want to prove that they are great athletes, how they know how to ski; unfortunately, he did not win first place, but fourth place. Happiness would be for the citizens of Serbia if we were in all quarters. However, according to all the indicators, we are in 93rd place. It was also admitted yesterday by Deputy Prime Minister Boza Djelic, who finally called and realized that Serbia is not a desert island, where foreign investors will rush, where big money will come, where Serbian citizens will live in abundance. Probably his neighbors and relatives ask him, "What's this, where's that money?" How do we live? Do you even enter the people? Do you see how many people suffer and how they live, what is the standard, what are the wages, what can they buy for that money? We support every investment, every program that leads to a better one, but we don't support your crazy borrowing, because we know it's going to have to pay for generations to come. Therefore, since you are ununited, since you do not have a joint programme, it is best for all Serbian citizens to part as soon as possible and to allow all of us and Serbian citizens to choose in the next election the best and best option for their lives.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36395	Mr. Sarovic has a word. Did you want to do it, Madam Minister? After Sarovic. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36396	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, although Mrs Kalanovic here explained that this set of laws will have extremely good consequences for the citizens of Serbia, when they scratch a little bit on the surface, we will all see that this is not the case. First of all, I have to make a general remark about the fact that you continue Serbia's unfeeling borrowing. I agree with you in the conclusion that the development of infrastructure is a condition for Serbia's development, but I cannot agree that you are the only way to finance these capital investments is to see further borrowing. You list some amounts, and you say -- it's not too much in charge, it's 30% of gross national income. But the real question is -- does anyone in Serbia really know how much we are in charge, is anyone able to add up these loans of yours, add up all the interest that will come to us in ten, fifteen, or twenty years, to add up units of local self-government, which are also extremely large? If you do all this, be sure that the amount and extent of the duties of the Republic of Serbia is far greater than what you are trying to present to the citizens. Of course, there is a need to expand the gas network in Serbia and, of course, to build a municipal infrastructure, but the question is whether it must always be only by borrowing or can it sometimes be done from its own resources? Why don't you do something about your own funds for public utility companies or the profits that individual public enterprises in Serbia make? I suppose you will immediately say that such enterprises are not available, but, behold, recently the city of Belgrade bought an Index building. More than billions of dinars were paid for, 400,000 gave the city of Belgrade, and more than 600,000 dinars were allegedly made out of the profits of Belgrade's "City Cleanness". According to the statute, the condition for such an investment would be that "City Cleanness" made more than 1,200,000 profits in the previous year, because, according to the Belgrade town's statute, a minimum of 50% is paid into the city's budget. If that is true, I doubt it indeed, it would be good to finally have the budgetary inspection visit Belgrade, because if you found local self-government, which has budgets of 200 or 300 million dinars, huge abuses, imagine what you would find in the city of Belgrade that has a budget of over 80 billion dinars. It is indisputable that certain legality exists. You should ask yourself why "Srbigas" is like a monopoly company, like a company that imports gas and sells it at a more expensive price, so it's impossible not to earn, in such a situation that it can't from its own resources, from profit to make such investments? I'll tell you one of the basic reasons, which is the huge debts of power plants across Serbia towards "Serbigas". It's something that this government not only approves, but even encourages. Over 7.5 billion dinars of Belgrade's power plant owe "Srbigas". Of these seven and a few billion, two billion are the old debt for which a bank loan was taken and it is slowly paid off; over 4.5 billion dinars are the current debt, which is undeniable, and about 660,00,000 dinars are the sum currently being negotiated with the government of the Republic of Serbia for that part of the debt to be cancelled. In all, it is more than seven billion dinars and that is about half of this amount that Serbia guarantees, appears as a guarantee, in a loan agreement between the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and "Srbigas". It should be asked how it is possible that Belgrade's power plants have not only not paid a single dinar "Srbigas" for the energy they have taken over for this heating season, but have not yet been paid, although in 2010, no energy has been used for the 2008/2009 heating season. A year? If we know that Belgrade Power Plants' income is about a billion and a half dinars a day, at this point, that means that it is at an annual level of 12 months (because the heating pays for all 12 months) of Belgrade power plants is about 18 billion dinars. It's only based on the charge of remote heating, and they're doing some other work, including the distribution of gas. For example, in Mladenov gas distributors are Belgrade power plants, which means that they also collect revenues on this basis. An increase in the price of heating has been announced by about 20%, although heating in Belgrade is the most expensive in Serbia, which you will admit should not be the case, because when it comes to playing large numbers and when it comes to a large number of remote heating users, which is a large number of users, it is also just heating cheaper. This applies everywhere in the world, in Europe, to which you are trying to take us, but it seems to be the only thing that doesn't apply in Belgrade. How is it possible that despite twice as much heating prices as in some other cities in Serbia, and the same amount of heat supplied per user, Belgrade power plants continue to have and accumulate such large debts? If we consider that this 20% increase in Belgrade Power Plants' revenue in 2010 to 22 billion dinars and the fact that 2,500 employees go to the salaries of less than three billion dinars a year, the question arises – where is the rest of 15 billion, 15 - 19 billion? With this increase, the difference will be about nineteen billion dinars per year. Where does that money go, if Belgrade power plants pay for the "Srbigas" energy? So they didn't pay for this year or the previous year. The question is how will it be regulated? In previous years, the practice was to regulate it by getting it out of profits, from NIS's business income. Practically, the state was paying for these accumulated debts at the end. Of course, when you sold half of "Serbiagas" when a Russian partner showed up, they didn't think to do so, they wanted to do business on market terms. What's also interesting and what shows that the state at different levels allows such a relationship is the fact that... For example, when "Srbigas" was at the end of 2009, and they did it once again in January 2010, when the Belgrade Power Plants account was blocked, how do you think they solved the blockage problem? First, they waited for days, and when the time came to pay workers, which they couldn't, of course, gave Infostan a warrant that the funds collected every month from the combined bill and related to the district heating had stopped to pay the Belgrade Power Plants' Gyro account, but had sent a bill to business banks, where employees had bills and received salaries. Infostan paid directly to business banks, and then business banks paid private incomes to workers of Belgrade power plants. It's something that in an organized state certainly couldn't and shouldn't be allowed. Mrs Kalanovic, you are the representative of a political party that controls economic relations in this country. This is, first of all, your party's responsibility. I'd like you to answer me how that's possible. The other problem is that you are extremely bad at business and you are extremely bad at bossing these public utility companies. Among other things, you said that the problem is why a loan is necessary, so I can't have utility companies doing it out of their own resources, that you inherited a bad system from the last decade. You may have inherited it, but you inherited it from yourself, because the Democratic Party has been in power in certain cities in Serbia, including Belgrade, for 13 years, for a decade. How is it possible, and check that, on the one hand, Belgrade power plants, in the previous days, as part of this action of charging remote heating and exclusion, send letters to citizens in which they are threatened, among other things, by seizing property, whether they believe or not, even to those not connected to the remote heating system? Then we have one completely insane situation – Belgrade power plants have not introduced individual users into the collection system, although they are supplied with heat and are connected to the remote heating system, and on the other hand, individual users who are not connected to the system are trying through these threatening letters to force them to pay some non-existent debts. I'll read it to you, of course I won't talk about it. This was sent a few days ago. What's interesting is that there's no amount of debt to be paid in the notice. I think it's basic data. If you can look at someone's memo, it's about Belgrade power plants... I guess basically, if someone owes you, if you're asking him to pay, you'd also write the amount he allegedly owes. Debt for the period from January 2008 to December 2009 is said to be required to settle the debt at the expense of Infostan within eight days of receiving the notice. Then he says – if the amount you owe is not paid even after this deadline, Infostan will, in accordance with the Implementing Procedure Act, submit a proposal to the First Basic Court for permission to execute on the basis of a credible document, and Belgrade power plants will be forced to access the exclusion of your apartment from the district heating system. This apartment isn't even connected to the remote heating system! He also says that if you do not settle your debts, you will be obliged to pay all additional costs, and by then you will not be guaranteed the quality of the heating, nor will Belgrade power plants comply with the advertising requirements. It is noted that the ultimate measure is an executive ban on personal income or the execution of the confiscation of personal property. This is a letter received by the person, out of courtesy I will not speak the name and address, whose apartment is not even connected to the remote heating system. Then he says - you are not required to deliver the total amount to Infostan personally, but you can hand it over when the mandated persons of the JKP Belgrade heating power plant arrive, which will keep your apartment in the remote charge system. The problem is that your experts boss public enterprises in such a way that simply no one could survive with them alive. Let us return to this guarantee agreement between the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Republic of Serbia. There are a few things here that are very controversial. First of all, the contract itself says the bank is agreed to grant a loan to a borrower of up to 150,000 euros. In light of this law and the reasons for the adoption, you say the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development is ready to grant a loan of 150,000 euros. It's not the same thing to say -- we're going to give up to 150,000, because up to 150,000 could be five, it could be fifty, it could be one hundred forty-nine. It's completely different when you say the loan is a fixed amount of 150,000. The conditions, I must say, are unfavorable and in some elements humiliating. I'm convinced, and I'm going to prove to you that this law contains elements that are anti-constitutional. Among other things, you commit yourself, that is Article 2.03 - other obligations, you say - the guarantee is binding, the Republic of Serbia undertakes to amend the Law on Energy of the Republic of Serbia so that, among other things, the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia, in its capacity as the authority that regulates the energy issues of the Republic of Serbia, gives exclusive responsibility to determine the level of tariffs together with the methodology for establishing tariffs for gas and to make the best efforts to submit a proposal for such changes to the Law on Energy to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia at the latest in June 2010. Can anyone who's passed law school ever imagine something like this? You are bound by one law and contract to amend the Law on Energy of the Republic of Serbia. How can you guarantee that and who can guarantee it? Can you guarantee that this government and parliament will last another week? Of course you can't. Perhaps this parliament will be disbanded tomorrow. Maybe even tonight, maybe in a week, a month. You cannot even know whether parliament will be dissolved or not, and certainly you cannot know what will be the will of 250 or 126 MPs. Then you could have given in the process at the same time or previously given in the energy law procedure, so think about meeting some of the conditions that they set for you during the negotiations on this loan. The Republic of Serbia further undertakes to support the borrower, which is "Srbigas", in charge of the unmistakable debt of gas users by abolishing gas supply or other appropriate measures. What are you gonna do? I cited the example of Belgrade power plants, which owe more than seven billion. They have to be first. I don't believe there's more debt in Serbia than Belgrade power plants. There may be, but it's probably one of the biggest public utility companies in the world. Are you obliged to deny gas to Belgrade, Novi Sad, any other city and thus leave, for the sake of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and their political will, Serbian citizens without heating in the course of this or any subsequent winter? Because the provisions of this contract will apply for the next 12 years and you are practically bound by 2022. It is further said -- it undertakes Serbia to take all actions necessary to enable full implementation of the provisions of the Law on Energy of the Republic of Serbia. You are bound by one law to apply another law. I suppose it's your constitutional obligation to ensure that not this is implemented, but every law. You further say you are committed to providing support for "Serbiagas" in all corporate reforms, including an increase in corporate governance standards. What's also very, very controversial, is that one of the provisions of the contract excludes the possibility that the money you get from this loan... They say it is used for these and these projects, but explicitly excludes gas storage related to the South Stream project and the Banatski Dvor project. In fact, the EU is pushing you through its bank to co-operate with Romania, with Hungary, to spend this money on building a gas network between Serbia, Romania and Hungary and practically directs us to buy Russian gas, but not to buy it directly through the South Stream, but to buy it through the European Union, and you all know very well that Hungary has blackmailed us whenever it could and that we have been charged with the gas that we took through them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36397	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36398	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mrs Kalanovic, if the basic concept of economic policy is being led in Serbia in the last ten years, then I must admit that I am quite concerned about the statement by Simon Grey, a representative of the World Bank for Serbia, given where our economic cream is skiing while the people are sown, which is that the time of the loan has passed and that Serbia must rely solely on its own capacities in the future. In order to be misunderstood, you must know that the SRS absolutely considers it necessary to help, among other things, and what we are talking about today in the Assembly, which is a water supply and sewerage programme in the medium size municipalities of Serbia, but that the only justification for all borrowings, loans, loans we face in the previous few years can be found only if these funds are invested in the construction of infrastructure or capital projects. What we point out constantly as a crucial problem, it's a loan payment. This year, as a state, if I am not mistaken, we will be able to return some 3.14 billion euros based on previous commitments. It is likely that most citizens know that all the economic crises that arise in the countries are primarily due to either the continuing deficit of the balance of payments or what we are talking about today and what will result in further growth in the external debt of a country. In such an economic or economic environment, when the fate of the state and citizens is exclusively in the hands of foreign creditors and various international financial institutions and depends on their willingness to secure the inflow of credit, while not neglecting the stimulation of high interest, it is clear what kind of problem the Republic of Serbia's economy is already in place, especially when, for any reason, economic or political, this inflow of credit slows down or stops. Then it is not difficult to conclude what problems both states and citizens face. All of this brings, of course, and to an excessive and uncontrollable decline in the value of domestic currency and there is then very difficult to do anything, even by intervention of the central bank. So basically everyone gets hurt, and the biggest problem is that there are among the victims and those who would use these loans rationally. It is also quite still in such situations as the debt structure, whether it owes more to the state or the private sector, which we in the SRS have already talked about on several occasions. In particular, we pointed out that data that is often apostrophe, which is that even the former SFRY, with twenty-two million inhabitants, had an external debt of about $22 billion, while Serbia, with nine million, has a debt to the abroad of nearly $30 billion. Such a deficit is the outcome of a long-term economic "work", which is only due to many facts. One of these is certainly also the fact that the state administration is excessively large and expensive, and not for the reason it is necessary for the functioning of the state, but solely from some need to meet the ambitions of partners in the ruling coalition. In this situation, Serbia's economy has led primarily to an irresponsible liberalisation of foreign trade, an uncontrollable capital inflow and the use of dinars as some kind of monetary anchor. All of them, both the World Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and especially the IMF, were important or not including factors in the definition of taking one such policy, and surely they should not expect any word of criticism in the coming period, but further encouragement to go through one economic ambience, where we are currently. For years, Serbia, it is very well known, faced with this problem of the chronic external trade deficit, a large debt, and for years Serbia is one of the two European states that, unfortunately, remain without a final account. With this policy, which has been going on for a decade, it is obvious that the state of Serbia, or all its citizens and taxpayers, should in fact become a general jury for all debts and commit itself to spending all of its savings instead of developing production solely on paying back the debts of the state and citizens. The SRS has an unequivocal view on this, and we really believe it is high time to break up with such an economic policy that is being led. How to interpret officials' statements, such as one of the NBS Governor Radovan Jelasic's statements, about how the debt per capita in Serbia is lower than in neighbouring countries and that loans account for 43% of GDP, as compared to the countries in the environment, he said, between 20% and 25%? Can we take seriously and responsibly the governor's announcement, which we consider the most responsible for the conduct of monetary policy in this country, that during this year, 2010 it can be expected that the restrictive monetary policy and the increase in the amount of approved credits, especially if it is given the terms of which the banks in Serbia, whose founders of the foreign bank, were asked to grant them as much money as possible to lend clients, and now their centrals are asking them to increase credit activity, and that the price of credit in Serbia in 2010 will depend on inflation, the reference interest rate of the NBS, the rating of Serbia and the situation in foreign banks, as well as the amount of savings deposits? What is particularly scandalous, and we in the SRS have warned about it, is the fact that Serbia's debt this year, practically and at the end of last year, would have been bigger if the World Bank had just mentioned not written off some 400,000 debts and transferred it to the account so-called. the countries of Kosovo. The same organisation, of which we accept every proposal and council as being well-intentioned, received official Pristina as its membership several months ago. So we will obviously have the opportunity for representatives of Serbia to sit together with representatives of the so-called. Kosovo states in the same hall at World Bank meetings, and the price of this is that 400,000 euros were written off to Serbia, so-called "The World Bank". Kosovo debt. We in the Serbian Radical Party believe it is necessary to create an environment in which banks would firstly recognise the interest to turn the economy, which is why they essentially exist, rather than continue as a practice of borrowing, loans, loans and everything else. The regulation of certain legal provisions should allow these business banks to motivate them to finance public works, so that we can talk in the Republic's parliament in this way, not always face various European, global financial institutions and banks. What I want to point out on this occasion is that Serbia's economic problems are not conukturous, but structural, and that the story that we can hear in public these days about the slow going of the economic crisis, that it will not disappear after us, because by applying everything that has been asked of us in these past ten years, primarily by the already mentioned international financial institutions, it is clear that we will be faced with the situation that the overall external debt of Serbia (both the state and the private sector) in the next two years exceeds 90% of GDP. And for those who are not economists, it is clear that this actually means one permanent state of debt and economic crisis and that the future will certainly be even more uncertain than it can be at this point. What we are asking of those who are most responsible for this situation is not only a short-term view of how and from whom we will take loans to complete the budget deficit or other purposes, but rather a concrete projection for the next few years, a projection that implies fundamental changes in the economic system. All of this should be manifested through the creation of an export-oriented industry, by helping agriculture as a strategic branch of development, because otherwise we will have major problems. What we're doing right now is just buying time and we're going to be in a phase, if nothing changes, to become one overindebted state, which unfortunately won't be able to repay all its debts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36399	The word is Mrs. Kalanovic. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36400	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it was difficult to expect that two of these laws, which envision the development of infrastructure in the larger territory of our country, which envision not only raising the quality of life and standards of citizens, but also the elemental needs that we are crying over at the moment we do not have them, would cause this kind of controversy. I expected that a group of MPs who had been in the government in the past would not have such a short memory. I expected some MPs to remember that they were sitting in the government when the municipalities, eight of them, were elected for the water supply improvement programme and that in 2006 the local self-government minister, because under his authority and in his jurisdiction was the agency for local municipal infrastructures. I expected that we would encounter continuity in work and thinking and support that what we started out alone be brought to an end. I expected that in this congregation we would speak in a language suitable for this home, both the auditorium and the public opinion that follows us. Let's not insult intelligence. Here we are talking about a loan that is related to water supply and a loan that is related to energy infrastructure, and we are asking those questions that we all know the answers to; we are asking why it is not finished, Corridor 10. I don't want to turn away from the subject, but I'll tell you that in 2006, the NIP was founded. Those who today say why the Vojvodjanska Banka is not selected as a developmental bank in Vojvodina, I would like to remind that the NIP budget has been established in part since the privatisation of the Vojvodjanska Banka in 2006 and that the bank has not been Vojvodina since 2006. To remind me that the largest funds from the NIP, which was then 1,650,000 euros, were spent on various road infrastructures. Let me remind you that it wasn't Corridor 10 at the time, that the priorities were roads, where we ran with the TV on our backs to win the election. To remind you that this government has inherited the status of Corridor 10, without any single project and without any lot or part of the route on which the expropriation was carried out. Let me remind you that today we have the preconditions to go to the realization of Corridor 10 just this year because we were trying hard last year to make ends meet. Let me remind you that we have established a new project implementation system, where each ministry has its own responsibilities and, with the coordination of ministries, projects are being implemented. At this point, it's working. Are any of us complaining? Does it matter? Does it matter if a minister answers or doesn't respond to a team? I hope those aren't facts. And I hope we work well. To remind me that both the law and the words that are on the Business Forum in Kopalnik are interpreted today as free interpretations, which are largely torn out of context or not accurate. I don't want to think they're malicious. But the fact is that there was a consensus on the development of infrastructure in Kopalnik by all political actors, and on those who came as businessmen from parties that are not in the ruling majority. That's why it's my surprise to ask today who we're in charge of. We are in debt, gentlemen, that in 2024 Serbia as an equal EU member would be a medium-developed country, and the preconditions for it are that "Fudland" in Bruce has water so that it can export its products to Western Europe, because it has signed contracts and is asking why the previous government has never approved it, and 200 people are employed in the new factory it makes in Igreš. And to the one in Kusovac who has moved from 500 tonnes of cabbage to 1500 tonnes of cabbage exports because he has been given HASAP because it has paved the way, and to the one in Korman Polje, which will by the end of July raise 15 new factories, i.e. new components, and the one in India that gets the new industrial zone, and this represents the development of infrastructure for this country. It's the basis, it's the base from which we're going to start raising citizens' standards, hiring people. How do we think we should lock ourselves in a shell and hire people like that? How do we feel about developing infrastructure today without serious loans and borrowing from international financial institutions? It is clear that the budget sets out a certain part of the funds from domestic sources. This year, unfortunately, it's only about 2% of the budget, but in those crisis years that we've been in, and we haven't always been in crisis, we have so much that we can do elemental things. Are these elemental things enough? Of course they're not, they're not enough to make water in villages in Surdulica, let alone make the big systems that Vrsac wants, which require 6,250,000 euros. That's why, ladies and gentlemen, my surprise today is great. Is it possible that someone today is asking why the state of Serbia is in charge of the development of infrastructure? I'll tell you, there are two reasons. One is that this is the only way for Serbia to be a country in which it can be invested through the completion of projects, because today, with the lack of roads, there is no investor to come to Serbia, because it will not produce under competitive and market conditions in Europe. The same applies to municipal infrastructure; the same applies to energy infrastructure. Another reason Serbia is in charge today: infrastructure projects can employ people in the safest way, increase their standard and reverse the cycle that goes through gross social product to the Republic's budget and up to a new investment cycle.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36401	Thank you. There's no basis for replication. Well, you've experienced that the minister didn't understand you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36402	Mrs Kalanovic, I think Serbia would be the happiest if you would spare your political knowledge and expertise. You know what, we listened to you, here, I listened to you all, but I don't know if you heard yourself? How many more years should it take in Serbia, after you came to power in 2000, to convince us that we need to go somewhere, so that you can convince us that we will be in the EU in 2006, and we will be in the EU in 2012, and we will be in the EU in 2024? In no discussion today, we have justified the need to build infrastructure in Serbia, but we have justified the way you do it. Because if you hadn't mutilated Serbia with cases like the one I mentioned earlier, with the "Nikola Tesla" airport, today you would have been much easier to realise and implement your infrastructure projects than Surdulica, every village, so I don't know how far. Who challenged you, so for ten years Serbia has been waiting for the Law on Planning and Construction, to facilitate investment cycles in Serbia? Who challenged you from setting up an immovableity cadastre so that we could have our investments coming today? It's nice to mention "Fudland". Please mention "Zamber" in Vranje, mention these workers who cannot collect their obligations, their salaries, taxes on health and social security. That's not what you're talking about. Wherever you appeared in the privatisation process, today is the problem. We don't take these people out into the street, you take them out through the weakness of the state authorities, and you show that you're neither capable nor willing to help. We didn't treat this exclusively critically, but we put it as a real problem that the state was economically broken. It is easy for you to talk gallantly about your debts and the means you spend and others to pay back. You gave very little to the citizens and to Serbia and offered compared to what you pulled from abroad. Serbia expected and had to get much more. We don't need to talk to you, read the European Commission report, and you'll see how much in the context of standards you've raised conditions and opportunities in Serbia since you came to power. I don't know what government you've been mad at since 2000. You haven't been around one since 2000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36403	The word is Marko Milenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36404	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today the Assembly is discussing additional duties of the Republic of Serbia and our citizens at the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and at the German Development Bank. For the first 150,000 euros from the European Bank, the MPs received only three sides of the text they typed and an explanation that is only pro-forma. This argument shows that the contract between "Srbigas" and the European Bank was signed on 18 February and that you really put it on the agenda by an emergency procedure, and that there is a logical question about who was in a hurry, whether it was "Srbigas", whether it was the Government, or the bank, or perhaps intermediaries in the conclusion of credit arrangements. It is not clear in the explanation whether the "Srbigas" of these short-term debt refinance operations, the construction of the underground gas storage and the maintenance of the gas transmission and distribution network could have done without raising credits, because after the collection of electricity of 10% and today's announcements of gas prices and recharge, while salaries and pensions are frozen, and the prices of goods are rising from day to day, and of the real purchasing power of our citizens, we have a fall in wages and pensions, so, lower and lower living standards... Could the Ministry of Energy and the Agency of Energy and, of course, the Serbian government have been able to create a possible strategy for doing these jobs without taking credit? If they can predict throwing 50m euros in paperwork through the census of the population, households and agriculture, I'm sure they could provide, with rationalisation and savings, and money for the said needs of "Srbigas". Why didn't parliament get a draft on the necessity of borrowing, with a specification of what was needed to complete this business in "Srbigas"? Wasn't a 100m-euro loan enough at Banke Inteza a few days ago, which you as the ruling majority, namely the perpetrators of the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and "Srbigas" decided to take, but now you want to approve another one hundred and fifty million euros, totaling three hundred twenty million euros? Furthermore, this contract does not show what amount of credit is going to be refinanced, and how much to build an underground warehouse and to maintain a gas distribution network, so as to specify the specification of all that can be produced by our companies and what is to be imported. It is particularly harmful and pointless, from the point of view of the serious state, Article 2 of Article 3 of this proposal, where Serbia is obliged as a guarantor to impose no direct or indirect taxes on foreign consultants potentially engaged by the European Bank or "Srbigas" for the implementation of this project. I ask you now who are foreign consultants, experts, like we don't have in Serbia, which, through the bill, impose on us as potential? It turns out for all these years that we in the SRS whenever we pointed out possible abuses, irregularities and violations of legality and crime were always right. Among other things, and day-to-day, when the government strikes on us with its power, especially in buying MPs, which tells us, but also in the public of Serbia, that we are on the right track and that the greatest Serbian hero of the modern age, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, is on the right track, and that his return to the state is approaching to finally benefit the country and people, not individuals from the government and their tycoons. I know that Members of the ruling majority of your bosses are putting you before the final act and telling you what you're going to vote for, but you have to ask yourself at least once, because you've approved a large number of loans from 2000 until now, for which you don't have any insight into the purpose or purpose of spending that money, while public debt from day to day, instead of shrinking, is getting bigger, leading us to a modern debt crisis. In fact, this is where the National Assembly is asked to assume on itself the issue of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia for something no MP has been referred to. Maybe that's necessary, maybe this loan is the most favourable, taken under the most favourable conditions, but you have to convince us or at least try to convince us that it really is. You have to convince us that "Srbigas" couldn't have done without this loan. Try to convince us that he is being taken under the most favourable conditions on the world market or at least that these funds will be used strictly for use, and not as they have been – credits come, one part of the job will be done, the other remains undetermined, and because of the high prices and recompromisation invoices and because of the high-end services under contracts, where the DRI has discovered major abuses and unnecessary waste of our citizens' money. It is as if a large part of the money from these loans and loans comes to a "Bermud triangle" in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and disappears, because the effect of these loans is not really manifested in reality, neither in the functioning of the state, public enterprises, nor through the financing of budgetary institutions. How many loans were taken from 2000 to today and how many business entities, the factory, were privatised, at the very least we should have been at the level of Slovenia's development. No one cares about what credit arrangements are, under what conditions and whether money will be spent rationally, and everyone boasts that they have received money. The other day, in all media outlets, it was a major success of the government and the Minister for Science and Technological Development to borrow from the European Investment Bank worth 200,000 euros. The biggest problem with all this is that it is the only success of the bank, to approve and certainly place its capital that will be safe, to ensure both the principal and the interest, to employ its consultants. Or, as provided for in this second proposal for a law on the confirmation of a loan contract by the German Development Bank for a water supply and sewerage programme, to be exempt from customs duties and VAT, and thus to require material for a water and sewerage network to be supplied abroad, to strengthen their economy and to fill their budget. Our companies stayed on the sidelines, and it was an extraordinary opportunity for them to get a job, so that at least in that small part of our economy, our businesses could get a job. If that's the goal of this government, of course, if their goal is the total collapse of our economy... It is high time for Serbia to wake up and no longer buy votes for cheap packages or 2,000 dinars, while we are increasingly sinking into legal and financial uncertainty, misery and poverty. What else does this guarantee agreement contain for the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in relation to "Srbigas" on three sides of the text? First, Article 1(1) provides – includes and provides for the application of the standard provisions and conditions of the bank to this contract, with the same strength and fact as being fully stated in this contract. It literally says so. Now, the fact that we MPs don't know what the bank regulations are since 2007, and we need to make a statement about giving an additional 150,000 euros on that basis and whether the contract is harmful to the state or not, that's something else entirely. It may be that these provisions of the bank are given to the ruling majority, so they will decide whether to vote or not, but they certainly are not. In Article 2(2) of this Treaty, subtitled "Execution of the project", the Republic of Serbia is obliged as a guarantee that, without delay, the bank will consider the measures it considers satisfactory to provide the borrower with the kind of support necessary to fulfil all its obligations under the contract. On the other hand, the Republic of Serbia must not prohibit or prevent "Srbigas" as a borrower from applying all necessary adjustments to the level and structure of the gas tariffs, from time to time, as you state in the text of the bill. The state should certainly take all measures to help "Srbigas" carry out all these activities, but what if, according to the criteria of the bank or individuals in the bank, these measures are not adequate and satisfactory? Are we going to go to arbitration in front of European judges? Or, for example, This harmonisation of tariffs or the translation of the increase in gas prices from time to time will be frequent or unadjusted to the paying power of our citizens? The state will not be able to react to a reduction in the price of gas, as it is bound by a contract with the bank, and "Srbigas" was made to determine the tariffs in accordance with the company policy or the free intentions of the director, although it is actually elected by the Serbian government. In the end, I will say that the SRS is against further borrowing both the states and the peoples, because serious states are only in debt when they have to do so under the best conditions on the world market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36405	The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word. You have ten minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36406	Before I say anything about the laws now being discussed, I would ask Mrs. Minister what any Serbian citizen would ask her, but as a representative of the executive government -- is our country really capable of borrowing? Any citizen who wants to raise any credit in the bank first has to prove his creditworthiness, because without it, there's no talking about the loan. That's why I'm asking you if we as a state are creditworthy when we know what revenue is in the budget, when we know what our foreign exchange inflow is, if we can even call it foreign exchange inflow, and what is our trading deficit? So, we have to ask ourselves, if we keep track of financial minuses everywhere, what resources are we going to repay these loans from? Any serious man can easily conclude that borrowing without a vision of how to repay funds is a direct way to fail. We are aware of the needs of building infrastructure in Serbia, but should be aware that Serbia's total debt towards various funds and banks is growing dizzy, increasing year after year. Finally this year, as we know, we were looking for a huge loan to finance the needs of the Serbian state budget. These days we are witnessing fairy-tale reports from the veiled Kopalnik on the work of the Economic Forum, on which the government, individual representatives of the opposition, businessmen, tycoons, university professors and some alleged experts are casually chatping about how to overcome the crisis. One government official, who sits with you in the same government, argues one thing, the other argues quite the opposite, and the country and citizens sink into debt mud. It's nice that the prime minister chats with fellow economists for two hours at a time in Kopalnik. It is bad that it is not so said in the National Assembly, that we too hear directly from the Prime Minister what awaits us, although we have heard that the crisis has passed. On the basis of which the prime minister made such a conclusion, no one is familiar in the state of Serbia. For many years one fact has become our reality, considering what the agenda of the National Assembly was like a year or two ago or during the autumn session. Here, the story is repeated today; there is no agenda with multiple points to consider, without including points relating to loans, the giving of guarantees for new loans, whether they are worth ten million or even hundreds of millions of euros. In the current agenda, we have four points relating to new credit borrowing, and this is with the ‘Este Bank’ (the Republic of Serbia is in debt), then, with Bank Intez, the responsibility for JP “Srbigas”, as well as with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development - for gas storage, and with Germany's Bank for Reconstruction and Development, KfW - for a medium size water supply programme in Serbia. Before I say anything about these two agenda points, I would like to ask Mrs. Minister if this kind of responsibility, just by building the infrastructure, is every year more and more leading to the situation that is happening in Greece these days? The fact is that debt is increasing year by year, and this is about increases in billions of euros. As minister, you must make sure that Serbia is due, that it is supported by its own incomes, that it is in charge only of investments that will be profitable, which can make profits the next day. If as a minister you cannot ensure that Serbia repairs a simple bridge in the capital by its own means, we have to pray to various banks in the world, then we should seriously imagine ourselves above our fate. There is obviously someone to help Greece, but when it comes to Serbia, we can only imagine what those who held us under sanctions, who took from us Kosovo and Metohija, who bombed our country mercilessly and those who overly admitted genocide against the Serb people. As for the proposal for a law on the confirmation of a loan and financing contract between KfW and the Republic of Serbia for water supply and sewerage programmes in Serbia's medium size municipalities, it is evident which municipalities, i.e. cities, will target this money, which is 25,000,000 euros from the loan, with a grant of around 17,500,000 euros. The foreign bank's grants quickly cover loans that weigh several hundredm euros, if not a billion euros. We know that nothing is free, especially coming from the West. Madam Minister knows the real reason for the German bank's generosity in this case. In addition, the damage caused for Serbia by the armies of those countries in 1999, including Germany, of which we now receive loans, will never and will never be compensated for the crumbs they occasionally throw at our table. As for the municipalities mentioned here, we must say that there are no municipalities here, that the cities are numbered, because Pančevo and Loznica and Shabac and Smederevo and Sremska Mitrovica, Sombor and Vršac have the status of the city. In this case, the government is guaranteed that the funds will be used for the implementation of projects for the supply of municipalities in Serbia. Even in point 1.6, you stressed that the next day these cities, i.e. municipalities, will not be deprived of the funds that follow them from the Republic of Serbia's budget based on the transfer of funds, that you do not forget this legal promise and that the next day you present these funds as transfer funds and deny the municipalities what belongs to them again. Last year you pleaded with the crisis, however, the crisis has been gone since this year, as the Minister of Economy and Regional Development and the Prime Minister claims, and that is why you will have to give municipalities and cities what belongs to them. I'd like to know, if you can answer that, what happens if the municipality gets the funds to build, say, a water network in a rural village, and based on a project that's been applied to this program, and for these jobs from the end-user, the owner of the connection collects the costs of the construction of the plumbing? What benefit do citizens in these municipalities benefit from this borrowing, except that the state will pay both interest and capital, and the citizens' costs of construction? The loans received will remain somewhere between the Republic and the municipality. I would add another fact, which will certainly be current during this and next year, as regards water supply and implementation of the legalisation process. In many municipalities and cities, there are countless promises to build waternets, especially in villages, since these problems are largely solved in urban settlements. What happens next? The presidents of municipalities who made a promise to build a water line around rural settlements are now facing a lack of funds. The money's gone, and the citizens are asking for the promises to be fulfilled. In this situation, Dulic's Law on Legalisation came as a rescue for the presidents of the municipalities, which for a large number of citizens poses a significant blow to the home budget, especially for citizens living in rural settlements; there is hardly a rural household that needs nothing to legalise. Since the percentage of applications for legalisation from the village is minimal, not to mention none, the question arises for whom will waternets be built in villages? I'm saying this because an object that isn't registered for legalisation or not legalized under the law can't get any connection, plumbing, electric, PTT, etc. What are you going to do now with projects that, in practice, under the Law on Legalization won't be able to be implemented? Will these municipalities return money to the state or will they spend it on the makeup of an existing water system? What is characteristic of this law and many similar ones that were previously passed in the National Assembly is the time of repayment of the loan, in this case from 30 June 2013 to 13 December 2024. The government is knowingly delaying the start of the repayment of the loan, to those who are then in power only taking on new loans, i.e. the refinancing of debts, which is in fact only the postponement of the Greek scenario. As regards this second draft law, the bill on the confirmation of a short-term debt refinance agreement, the construction of a underground gas warehouse and maintenance of gas transmission and distribution networks, it is undeniable that Serbia needs a network for transmission, distribution and storage of gas, given Serbia's new strategic position on the South Stream project and a significant role as a major and powerful ally of our people – the Russian Federation. That is why the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development has easily solved the bag, as it is also aware that business with Russia on transit of Russian gas will be a safe and lucrative business, not out of love for Serbia, but because of profits, which will certainly be significant in the business of Russian gas. Serbia had to find its own funds for such a cost-effective project, instead of slaved to the European Bank through the payment of capital and credit. In the end, today, four and a half thousand dinars are the average indemnity per capita. It's grown three times since you've been in power. That the situation is even worse is the fact that almost 90% of the economy is sold out for the bagatel, that very few businesses normally work and that the last straw rescue for the current government will be the sale of EPS, JAT and the airport. After that, we can prepare to take over the bankruptcy staff from Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-11-0.u36407	The honourable MPs, since there are no more statements on the lists of MPs for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups who did not exercise that right in accordance with Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint Single Search on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty (Refinancing of short-term debt, construction of a underground gas storage facility and maintenance of gas transmission and distribution networks) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan and Financing Treaty between KfW, Frankfurt at Main and the Republic of Serbia – Water supply and sewerage programme in the medium size municipalities of Serbia I – Phase 2. I thank you for the work of Mrs. Secretary and her associates. Dear MPs, we will continue our work tomorrow at 10:00 p.m. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 90 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 84 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the sittings of the following MPs: Zoran Kasalović, Đuro Perić, Aleksandra Janković, Nikola Lazić, Milan Lapčević, Elvira Kovac, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Arpad Fremond, Riza Halimi, Ivan Andrić, Cedomir Jovanovic, Zarko Korać, Slobodan Maras, Nenad Milić, Natasa Micic, Zoran Ostojić, Vesna Pesic, Judita Popović, Nebojsa Prokić, Neboša Ranđelović, Kenan Hajdarevic. We're continuing our work on the agenda. We move to a joint single search of 33, 35, 36, 37 and 38 items of the agenda – MEETING OF THE MEMBER OF THE RRA AND THE REFERENCE OF THE PUBLIC ASSISTANCE OF THE PUBLICATION OF THE MEETING OF THE MEMBER STATES OF THE RS, I would like to remind you that yesterday the Government has withdrawn the draft decision on the selection of the President and members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, which was intended to be considered in the framework of this joint Single Search as part of the 34th session agenda. We move on to a joint single search on: List of candidates for the selection of one member of the Council of the Republic of Serbia, Proposal for a selection of Deputy Commissioners for Public Information and Personal Data Protection, Application for the resolution of members of the Health Council of the Republic of Serbia, Proposal for a decision on the establishment of a permanent delegation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia at the Parliamentary Assembly of Francophonia, Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint single search on items 33 to 38 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 163(3) and Article 94 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups, are five hours, and is set as follows: The Parliamentary Group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group – one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 Group plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group Forward Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; the LDP Group of MPs – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the E-mail group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS Group – six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorized them to represent them on these points of the agenda: the MP of Dr. Paja Momcilov, the SRS Parliamentary Group and, I suppose, no one else. According to Article 142(2) and Article 163(2) and (3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? Ms Vesna Marjanović, the Committee's rapporteur. Here you go.
