ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37552	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the basis of a proposal from the Parliamentary Group "For European Serbia", and in accordance with Article 204. I set the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on Thursday, March 25th, 2010, starting at 11.00 p.m., as the Day for Answering Parliamentary Questions on the current topic – the Financial Effects, IMPLEMENTATION AND THE CONTROL OF THE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERVE FOR 2008. A year. I would like to remind you that the applicants of the proposal have asked that the parliamentary questions concerning the current topic be answered by Mirko Cvetkovic, Prime Minister Diana Dragutinovic, Finance Minister and Radoslav Sretenovic, President of the Council of the State Auditing Institution, and with the addition of the proposal from 24 March 2010 to Zarko Obradovic, Minister of Education and Nebojsa Bradic, Minister of Culture. I would also like to inform you that at the request of Mr. Radoslav Sretenović, President of the DRI Council, I have also called for the presence of top state auditor Life Antić, top state auditor Ljubica Jankovic-Andrijević, the authorised state auditor Radulka Urosevic and the authorised state auditor Cvetana Pršić. Before we move on to asking parliamentary questions, let me remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to how to ask parliamentary questions on the current subject. The right to ask questions shall be given by all MPs, according to the order of application, and until the total time for asking questions is up. The MPs shall submit to the President of the National Assembly a request to ask questions in writing until the start of the reply, and verbally during the duration of the reply. The MP may ask up to three questions, in accordance with Article 208. Rules of Procedure. Answering parliamentary questions may take a maximum of 180 minutes and shall be carried out regardless of the number of Members present in the hall, in accordance with Article 207. Rules of Procedure. The time within which the MP orally asks the question is the longest three minutes, and the answer to that question is five minutes. After answering, the MP who has asked the question can ask two more questions, for a total duration of up to three minutes, and the answer to these questions may take up to five minutes. After that, other MPs have the right to ask questions according to the order of applications, in accordance with Article 209. Rules of Procedure. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be applied accordingly during the duration of the question and answer, by not allowing replication and reference to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, as provided for in Article 211. Rules of Procedure. Accordingly, I ask the MPs to submit applications for a question. At the same time, I remind you that the order for asking parliamentary questions will be determined according to the practice of work so far, so that, in turn, the People's MP will first have a representative of the parliamentary group who is proposing the topic, then the word will be given to MPs who do not belong to any member of parliament, and then MPs from the least to the largest parliamentary group. He's got a word... (Milos Aligrudic: You forgot to read below 2, 3 and 5.) Please, in accordance with Article 211, you do not have the right to harm the Rules of Procedure or the replicas. (Milos Aligrudic: The president, what you have read are exceptions. ) I give my word to MP Nadia Kolundzija, as president of the "For European Serbia" parliamentary group, who is proposing the current topic. (Dragan Todorovic: This is about terror again. ) Mr. Todorovic, please, I've given an explanation for why you can't get the word. Don't bring me... Mr. Aligrudic, Mr. Todorovic, please behave yourself. (Dragan Todorovic: This is terror, and this is about the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has the People's Envoy of Hope Kolundji. Here you go, Mrs. Kolundjia. (Zagor in the O.R.) DS MPs, with a protest, are leaving the room. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37553	If you'll excuse me, I'll wait for them to come out and quiet down. (The President warns the Messengers with the bell. ) Dear Presidents, honourable members of the Government, the Honorable Mr. State Auditors, MPs, starting first and foremost with the importance of controlling public finances, this assembly passed the law and elected the State Auditing Institution, estimating the importance of establishing full control over public finances. This is precisely why, and starting with the fact that the law does not predict that the National Assembly in Plenum is discussing the report of the DRI, but that it is the responsibility of the parent board, we felt that calling such a session is useful, for a number of reasons. First, we want to show that it is important for us to support the work of the DRI, on the one hand, and on the other hand, it is important that citizens know the full truth about what the state auditor did and what he found in his report. That is why we thought that this session was of particular importance, so that, primarily because of citizens, we would get answers to questions that were very often misused in public, distorted, and so all those who had a clear intention of establishing control over public finances were brought into a very awkward position. I therefore ask the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia – did the Government of the Republic of Serbia cooperate fully with the DRI, providing all the assistance and support, but also all the necessary information to enable the state auditor to do this job in a quality way? Although we know that this first audit report covers only partially (due to the circumstances - the establishment of work, services, etc.) Analysis of budget spending, I think it is important for the public to hear how the government was referring to the work of the state auditor and whether it provided full support and thus made it possible for this institution to do its job.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37554	Thank you. The word has a prime minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37555	Dear People's MPs, first of all, I would like to welcome you and express my satisfaction in giving you the opportunity to discuss a very important topic. The issue of state audit is essential for the democratisation of a society, because the state audit must show the way in which taxpayers' funds are spent and to establish facts about this, and that the facts relating to the possible failures made, and the fact that some malicious use of these funds would occur. I am very happy that it turned out that during the term of office of this government, the Republic of Serbia received the first audit report and that this is how the practice that will follow us will be introduced in the coming period every year. I expect that every year, the situation will be better and better and that both sides, on the one hand, those who have taxpayers' funds, and thus also auditors, will be able to gain experience and set standards and that we are going better and better in some way to increase the transparency of spending. Given the importance of this revision, I would like to say that the government has been working with the auditor from the very beginning. I'm going to answer that question from the government's point of view, and since we have a state auditor here, it might not be bad for him to say something about that co-operation, for his part, so that it doesn't turn out that only the government is talking positively about it. I think the co-operation was really good. First of all, we wanted to, and such an instruction was made to all budget users, to provide the maximum of all the data available, and even to make sure that even where we do not have proper monitoring of some databases, which are not created, that in agreement with them work is started and that all that will be necessary for future audits will be created. My assessment is that we did everything on our part, that we didn't put any pressure in any direction and that we came openly to that work. I hope that the other party, in that sense, will give its position on this issue, but to answer it specifically, is provided and requested by the cabinets, and I have also received information that it has been so, that all budgetary users, ministries and other budgetary users who are controlled, maximum and fully open-ended and give all the information they are asked for.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37556	Thank you. There's a Mrs. Hope Kolundji in the sub-question.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37557	I would like to ask the state auditor – were there political pressures in his work, were there attempts to influence his work and to submit a different report, were there any attempts to influence what the DRI did by filing criminal charges? Another question, for the Prime Minister – were the irregularities observed by the DRI in its work something inherited from previous periods or some of the phenomena that occurred in 2008? Let me remind you, and for the sake of the citizens, the report refers to 2008. I wish that, because of the citizens of Serbia, we all understand whether these irregularities are something that was done in 2008 or something that has been inherited and that has been corrected in recent years, but there are still some clues, shortcomings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37558	Mr. Sretenović has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37559	Dear Presidents, members of the Government, honourable MPs, first of all, I would like to welcome you on behalf of the DRI for the first time now in the Assembly and to tell you that the responsibility of the DRI, mode of work and all organisations is prescribed by the Law on the State Auditing Institution and the Rules of Procedure on the work of the DRI. We had the chance to review the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2008 budget for the first time now, in this year, to give our report without expressing our opinion. On the other hand, we expressed our opinion that we cannot express our opinion on the financial report of the final account of the Republic of Serbia, because we did not collect enough evidence and information to give an opinion, i.e. the scope of the audit was not great to give an appropriate opinion. During the 2008 revision of the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2008 budget, we selected the corresponding number of beneficiaries of the budget funds that were the subject of our audit based on certain criteria and standards. As a priority, in any case, we were subject to a revision of the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2008 budget and a certain number of users, i.e. the ministry where we thought we covered some of the risk areas that we thought should be the subject of our audit. In that sense, we issued the first draft, then we made a proposal for a report, and we finally gave the report. During the operation and execution of these DRI operations, I responsibly confirm that the DRI had no pressure from any party involved in the audit process, neither the political party nor the Government nor other state bodies. The co-operation was at a very high level at the Treasury Administration, where they provided us with all the necessary documentation so that we could express our opinion. The only problem we had was the lack of personnel, and for that very reason, the lack of the required number of auditors, we couldn't include a larger number of audited entities. So there was no pressure, there was high-level co-operation, we got all the necessary documentation we asked for and it was made available to us with all the documentation, based on which we did this first report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37560	Thank you. The word has a prime minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37561	On the second question, whether those failures in 2008 were made for the first time or whether they were failures that were established practice, I would answer you with one of the statistics that was made by me in the cabinet. As is known, the audit report is a fairly thick book, which is under review, in accordance with the procedure for making audits, different aspects, and in this review, it points to certain irregularities in budgetary users. My cabinet made statistics to determine how many individual irregularities there were, when they arose and whether they were repeating themselves as something that had already been established or first reported. That statistic is about next. We have determined that a specific grudge or objection has been put in place in 55 places and that the regulation is referred to as infringements. In these 55 we have infringements of the Budget Accounting Regulation in 17 cases, the Budgetary System Act in 19, the Public Debt Act in four, the Labour Act in 11, the Public Procurement Act in three and the State Employees' Payments Act in one case. When you add these numbers, that's 55 total. If we look at the year, and it consists of two parts, given that the two governments were responsible for 2008, then we watched which of these violations were committed in the first half of the year, and which in the second. Statistics show that 38 was made in the first half of the year, and in the second half of the 17, totaling 55. Violations repeated from the previous period are 49, and for the first time there are six. So that's, like, statistics and the answer to your question. I'd say it's mostly a matter of some established practice. We will probably be able to discuss some of the most remarkable situations through questions, to explain what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37562	Thank you. Since Mr Batic and Mr Damjanovic are not here, no one, as well as from the parliamentary group of minorities, has the word Mr Velimir Ilic, and let Mr Cedomir Jovanovic prepare. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37563	Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am very sorry that, sitting in the benches of the Assembly, we didn't hear anything either gentleman said. We haven't even heard from the Prime Minister. There's nothing here that's been heard. You spoke so quietly, perhaps for the audience, for the TV, but we absolutely didn't hear anything, and we warned you to speak plainer and louder.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37564	Gentlemen, Mr. Ilic is right, you can't really hear it. Please ensure silence, so we can monitor the course of the session. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37565	We haven't heard a single word from the auditor. I don't know if anyone in the environment heard anything. Therefore, gentlemen, if we came here today to apologize to each other from the ruling coalition, to praise and to negotiate, then we are really playing an audience here. But we have some questions for the prime minister who are very interesting, which life means for this country. Last night, I listened very carefully to the Minister of Economy Dinkic. I recently listened to the finance minister. Mr. President, I don't understand, you have two key ministers in the government who are completely opposed to each other. What is this stability of the government, and what can we expect from that government? Is it a serious government, if the finance minister says - to reduce public spending, to do this, to do that, etc., and to come out Mr Dinkic and the obvious letter? I wish Mr. Mrkonjic was there, too, so he could explain how it should be done and...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37566	Mr. Ilic, I'm going to have to point you on the subject. We have a very clear subject today, so please hold on to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37567	Listen, I'm gonna come up with a topic that's very interesting. I'm asking questions to the prime minister today, and for me, it's the prime minister if we have a prime minister. If we don't, then we need to know who the Prime Minister is. I was listening on TV last night...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37568	I would ask you not to insult the Prime Minister, Mr. Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37569	Please, I'm asking if we have a prime minister. Last night, I listened to Mr. Dinkic, who acted as prime minister. He answered all the questions to which the prime minister should answer today, questions concerning everything. He's simply a government know-it-all. Is he out of control? Time, three minutes. Is there an existing prime minister...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37570	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37571	First of all, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to say that, by reading the 2008 auditor's report, I haven't noticed any different views between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy. But if you really want to answer that, I can tell you that, in principle, there are no different attitudes, given that one attitude refers to the situation in the crisis period, and when it comes out of the crisis, and the need to increase consumption, or something easier for citizens, especially the poorer part, and the other is one medium-term concept in which the country's budgetary and overall economic policy should be managed. Here, that's the answer. You could see that answer on many occasions and in the press, and it was commented by all the participants, including those you mentioned. I apologize for answering even though I have a finance minister here. I did it for the reason you called me directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37572	Thank you. Madam Minister, do you want a word? No, I don't. Do you have a question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37573	You know what, I'd have more questions. I'd like to ask Mr. Auditor to look at some things...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37574	You've got three minutes on business for two questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37575	One thing's very interesting. Last time I asked Mr. Prime Minister and I still haven't got an answer, although it's been a few months. And now I'd like to ask Mr. Auditor to look at those contracts. What's this about? A memo came to me today from Ratel for Nuba Invest, a phantom company that concluded a contract on the passage of optical cables to corridors along the highway. Rattel responds that no one has ever spoken to him and that company has no license, there is nothing of them to do in the telecommunications system and that the other day after my question a memo was delivered that they are interested in what needs to be done. I got an answer from "The Way of Serbia", a lawyer who wouldn't sign. Mr. Darko Pesic refused to sign consent, but Minister Dulic came personally and acted on some consent and gave permission to perform the works. Therefore, gentlemen, Mr. President, the JP "Electroprivred Serbia" took a 32m-euro loan and created the system of optical cables for the power lines system and set it up in Serbia and is currently one of the most modern systems in the Balkans. Eighty percent of the system is not operational because no one is allowed to conclude a contract with them, as the phantom firm Nuba Invest, founded with 3,000 euros, without a director, without any employees, is expected in New Belgrade, Michael Pupina No. 6, founding stakes are given etc. It's all good in here. The question is -- how is it possible for someone without a tender to sell state resources where the annual income, the rest, the profits, will be about 100 million euros? Who's gonna use those funds?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37576	Time. Thank you. I will have to remind you once again that today's topic is the financial effects, implementation and control of the Republic of Serbia's 2008 budget. Please, gentlemen, let us stick to the subject and the questions of this topic. Mr. Auditor, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37577	I thank Mr. Ilic for the information he has now shown us. We'll keep it in mind when we perform the audit, and once the public business audit sector is in place, we'll keep that in mind, and I'd like you to, if you can, forward that documentation to the DRI address. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37578	I give my word to the People's MP, Chedomir... (Velimir Ilic, from the place: Replica. You've spent three minutes, you can't do it anymore. Within those three minutes, you can ask two questions. Please, I've read the Rules of Procedure. It's very clear. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37579	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Cvetkovic, the Honorable representatives of the DRI, the Honorable Minister, I would like to say what is good. It's a good thing there's even a willingness to talk about this subject. I think it's a bad thing that followed the State Auditor's report, that there was a great willingness aside, I think of all MPs here in the Assembly, to finally open this issue of availability to state money, and that's what's satisfying. Everything else is bad. It's bad that we do it this way. This isn't a normal assembly session, we can't talk here. We can ask two questions, we have three minutes to do that, those questions are being answered by the representatives of the DRI and the representatives of the government as they wish, and we have no right to comment. I will tell you that this is bad because on December 7th, we adopted the conclusion, unanimously, that it is necessary to organise a session of parliament to discuss this matter seriously. It is very important, it has scandalized our public, and serious problems remain beyond attention because we cannot devote ourselves to them in an adequate way. What's what for us in this paradox? We now need to give an opinion on the auditor's report, whose opinion is that it cannot deliver an opinion. Am I right? We'd like to be serious. Of course, based on the auditor's report, we can ask some fundamental questions. Since there is still a minute, I would like to ask Mr Cvetkovic a question, as Prime Minister. You are the Prime Minister who has inherited a very complicated situation, an unsustainable practice that needs to be clearly condemned, a practice that had a different kind of example, one that was characteristic of the government of Zoran Djindjic. The final account was adopted by the government of Zoran Djindjic in 2002, and the parliamentary majority discussed it in the Assembly, which had to attend 126 MPs in order to have a quorum, in which there were no restrictions, in which the finance minister explained for days with his team the way in which the country's citizens' money was spent. From 2002 to today, we have not had a debate on the final account, and for the first time we received a final account for 2008 last year, thanks to the finance minister. You've denied us the opportunity to discuss the final account. I'm interested, Mr. Cvetkovic - what have you done, as Prime Minister, to get rid of this situation systemically? You run a government that has internal control and audit in five ministries, all other ministries spend money without any internal control, you're responsible, and we're not here to conduct an adequate and serious debate. So, what did you do to solve this problem systemically?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37580	Mr. President, you have your word, just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37581	First, I'd like to answer a specific question about the final account. I have to say, you're wrong, probably because you're not informed. The final accounts of the budget have been lectured, I don't know if every year since 2002, but I know for sure they've been handed over for 2005, 2006 and 2007. The fate of these final accounts was such that the government adopted them, sent them to parliament, and parliament did not discuss them because they did not have a review report and did not have a review report because the audit did not exist. The state audit didn't exist because we inherited the situation. And then we started to pass the law, to form that revision, and then, just two years ago, if I remember correctly, or something like that, there was an idea in parliament that, despite the absence of a formal DRI, some of the commercial audit institutions were engaged and that they were audited. For some reason, I don't know why, it wasn't done and those accounts were withdrawn. However, if you think that they are not made and that they are not handed over to parliament, that is not true. They're done, they're delivered, they're withdrawn, they exist. The auditor, when formed and started to operate the DRI, had the option to start with these final accounts and to make an audit for 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008. However, due to DRI's capacity, he decided to ignore these previous accounts, which, I repeat, exist and have been done, and he said – we have no capacity, I will only take 2008. And when he started processing 2008, he concluded that he had no capacity for her to be in the process as a whole. This circumstance is just telling us about the importance of beginning work on the audit and the importance of DRI, the importance of the need to help it build its capacity and to have audit reports in the future. If one minute the auditor will decide to go backwards and review those final accounts that were made, that's his thing, I won't influence it. But do they exist? Yeah, they exist. The issue of internal audit and the existence of somewhere that is not, is one system issue, and the State Auditor's report just points to the lack of internal control. Now it's gone seriously into creating internal control and that thing will be corrected in the next period. Of course, it's not the only thing that's missing. It's missing, too, and a whole series of information, the property database, and a lot of other things that we found as found, and that's going to fix it. Some corrections will be possible in the months ahead, and some will take years. I say so on the basis of the audit report for the Republic of Croatia, which is particularly important because it comes from the same mile as our country, and that the auditor has had almost identical systemic objections to the final budget account, because they do not have enough databases collected either. It's a very similar situation to ours.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37582	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37583	Mr. Cvetkovic, although some have laughed, your answer has not been funny to me. He, unfortunately, confirms what I said. You know, the final accounts don't come in to be in some drawer or that some ministry might say it's gone and done its job. We discussed the final bill for 2001 in the Serbian Parliament in 2002. Last year, in the Belgrade City Assembly, the LDP insistence, an open debate on the final account and how the funds are spent. That report contains 400 pages. If the final account exists, then it's discussed. We haven't talked about the 2008 final account here yet. Now we're talking about a partial report, i.e. on the report of the auditor based on partial work, since he has no capacity to do all the work. I asked you what you systematically did to change something about it. Why do I ask you that? Because five ministries have internal audits. How can you know, how can we know...? What does the final account look like if only five ministries do an internal audit in the first place, and the final account is submitted? It's okay and it's good to talk about this now, which is a state audit institution, which is an approved budget, which we all adopted together as a Rules of Procedure, which we help further develop and affirm. That's positive. And the problem is that there's an impression that we're talking about this right now to change the public's opinion about the government, to convince the public that the government is more responsible for handling public money than it's supposed to be. I wish I could contribute to that effort of yours and help us do it. Another specific question for you. I don't know any man who lends someone money and doesn't ask for it back. The state has borrowed 150m euros from public enterprises, indirect budget users, direct budget users, business entities from privatisation, and has not even asked for that money back so far. The borrowed money was loaned to NIS, Railways, for example, went to Galennik, exclusively to public enterprises, did not go to the private sector, and later, despite the fact that loans were not returned, a new tranche of loans was approved, and so is now minus in the privatisation register of 150m euros. We are interested in the responsibility of such a thing, and when will you take concrete steps to get that money back, and that those who played with money in 2005-2006 are doing "Potremkin's Villages" in Serbia, and they would like to teach us lessons more often today, responsible for this unconscious business? Because I don't know anyone who can give money without losing the right to ask for that money back. If he gave it as a loan, the loan is limited. And the auditor made it clear that all the deadlines for the repayment of the loan were breached. If we're paying for the most expensive gas, let NIS give us our money back. If that loan went to cover up the loss of NIS because of the bad business there, then someone who's been doing bad business is responding.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37584	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37585	I've recorded two questions here. One thing is why the auditor gave the opinion that he could not give a firm opinion because of the limited volume of the sample he was treating. I don't know the revision (I'm an economist, but it's a special kind of activity and activity) and it may better be answered by the auditor, but as far as I know, the revision is always done on the basis of some sample, which is required to be material, and therefore users with the greatest participation in what is being analysed. The auditor did so, but because of the limited volume of personnel, he could not provide a large enough sample to be safe or likely to express his views. But it's a professional question and I don't want to talk about it. Here we have another question that you've asked, which actually contains almost one of the larger number of these violations that I've listed, which is why it's not from certain state-owned enterprises that was asked to return the funds that were given them from the loans. In that regard, you have given one finding that is correct, but not entirely. You mentioned that it happened in 2005 and 2006. But if you look at the auditor's report, you'll see that it's been happening continuously since 1992, and it ends in 2007. So it's not just two years, it's almost two decades of funding to state-owned enterprises in order to help them survive, and then the budget didn't ask them back, to return or block them, or to launch bankruptcy proceedings. When asked why it didn't work, it was really very difficult to answer whether it would have been wiser if we had launched a bankruptcy procedure against the railroad, left twenty thousand and more workers without a job, abolished the state railway, asking it to repay loans without which it could not survive at some point, and which it also cannot repay at this time. Of course, nobody's happy that this is the situation, but the reason why we didn't do it is, first of all, social character. Of course, now, based on this report by the auditor, someone will pay the fine for not launching the procedure to liquidate the Railways and some other public enterprises. Fortunately, that punishment will be a violation, but it will be a pleasure to pay for it, because it will make him grateful to thousands of people who work in these public enterprises. We'll solve it in the next period, and we have ways to resolve it, but it'll just be formally resolved so we don't pay the fine. We have another problem, and that is the problem of restructuring these companies and bringing them to a profitable level of work. It is a matter that is not solved by an audit institution, but rather a matter that must be resolved by reforms that are now under way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37586	Thank you. Mrs Dragutinović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37587	I just wanted to add a few sentences regarding the identified problem and asked by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. I wanted to say that lending, mostly to public enterprises, but also to the Pension Fund, is from privatisation funds and other means of practice back in the '90s. The government has always had the opportunity to borrow or subsidize. Personally, I think that subsidies would be a cleaner solution and we wouldn't have a comment from the auditor, but giving the loan was also a form of pressure from the government to restructure a particular public company. Also, we were technically able to write off these loans, because loans were granted to the Pension Fund, the Yata, the Railways, meaning public enterprises, but who knows, in the restructuring process, there may be sources from which these loans will be returned. So, the easiest thing to do is write it off. I'd like to point out that there were no loans in 2008.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37588	Thank you. The word is by MP Zoran Kasalovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37589	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Prime Minister, ministers, DRI representatives, the SPS-JS Parliament Club sees the DRI's work as a very important start for the first time, resulting in a report on the financial audit of the final account of the Republic of Serbia's budget. In this regard, we express our full support and satisfaction that this report is linked, above all, to the mandate of this government, to this assembly's call, and also to the Assembly's Finance Committee, which seems to me to be giving significant support to the work of the DRI itself. Of course, it is very important that full independence is provided in the work of state auditors in the audit process, which is confirmed several times by the president himself. In that sense, it seems to me that we have a good basis for having modern public finances in the next period, where financial reports will certainly fully realistically and truthfully express financial and monetary flows, and this should result in the legal spending of every dinar in the Republic of Serbia's budget. The SPS and the JS are ready to influence the facts that should lead to a full collection of evidence that will allow a reasonable basis for the DRI to give an opinion in the report in the coming period, since this time was not the case. It seems to me to be a task in the future for all of us and to include audits, of course, being at the level that is laid down by law. A specific question for Mr. Minister Zarko Obradovic. Since the financial audit was made for 2008, and during 2008, two governments were practically working, so your ministry was covered by the revision of the period when Mr. Loncar, your predecessor, and you, how much did that fact affect, from your point of view, the course and the outcome of your ministry's financial audit?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37590	Thank you. Mr. Beard, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37591	Thank you. Dear fellow MPs, I will say something that most of you and the public of Serbia may seem heretic, but I must say that I, as a minister, am pleased that this report today is on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is discussed in spite of all the restrictions that exist, as mentioned by my colleague, Mr Jovanovic, regarding the position of auditors, but I think that this, as a minister, is one opportunity for me to say a few words about the Ministry of Education and the fact that I am one of the ministers against whom the application was filed. For me as Minister, what the DRI is doing is valuable and I cannot say anything else but that I am pleased that this report exists. I am pleased because it is a very large ministry, which, I think, uses the largest part of the Republic of Serbia's budget, which has the largest number of users, direct and indirect, and for us is a very important way of spending money. I'm pleased that the DRI, through its report, has pointed to some things that are not in their possession, we are correct, but the final court will give it to the judge for the violations and, of course, we will respect the court's decision. I am also pleased that my colleagues - assistants, state secretaries and others who participate in the work of the Ministry of Education - will have to understand the importance of this whole work carried by the DRI, because we all work together in the Ministry, and responsibility is only the minister, and therefore the minister appears as someone against whom the application has been filed. Here, at least when it comes to the 2008 State Auditor's report, it is obvious how the ministry works, because we have also mentioned a previous colleague minister and I. The auditor thinks we didn't do it right, and we find it different. I have to mention something else, which I haven't been able to say by now, or, if anyone asked me, simply, it didn't see the light of day. Dear fellow MPs, I would like to inform you and the Serbian public that the report by the state auditor, as regards the Ministry of Education, is positive. Yes, colleague Krasic, the report is positive, and that is to say. They considered that there were certain parts to be further clarified and on this basis provided us with the proper documentation, we gave the answer and they, of course, submitted the application, and the final position would be given by the judge for the violations. But I cannot mention that the 2008 State Auditor's report on the 2008 Final Account states that, when it comes to the Ministry of Education, financial reports provide "a true and objective representation in all materially significant aspects, in line with the regulations applicable in the Republic of Serbia". So, dear fellow Members of the People, no money has been spent outside of the financial plan. After all, it's our obligation to work by budget, and what we think we're right, and the DRI thinks we're not, we'll prove in court. First of all, I think it's a different view of some documents that regulate the way the Ministry of Education works in certain means. In any case, we will provide the judge with all the necessary documentation, and we will also try to convince them that this part, which is covered by the State Auditor's report, has been done in accordance with the law. I can't help being satisfied with this report. Now, heretically, it sounds like I'm praising the state auditor, but for us, it's valuable because we spend more than 1,300,000 euros on the Republic of Serbia's budget and it's very important that every dinar is spent properly. Because 95% of the budget of the Ministry of Education goes to the personal incomes of the employees, and the 5% that remains is, in relation to the number of users, so little, that it is also important that the funds are used properly and that the effect of using these funds is as large as possible. I have to tell you that, no matter what we sit on the opposite sides now, we've talked to our DRI colleagues, and we'll talk, and we've been invited to be the subject of a review from 1 May to 1 November of this year for 2009. What else can I say, they are welcome, so let them see how we did, and we will act in accordance with the law and regulations governing work and the Ministry of Education and other state bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37592	Thank you. Mr. Kasalovic, a question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37593	The President-in-Office, Honorable Prime Minister, Ministers and Representatives of the DRI, one of the basics and reasons why the DRI report does not express its factual opinion is the fact that internal control and internal audit are not the best way, so they are present in direct and indirect users of the budget and all those prescribed by law. Appreciate the fact that it's in Article 5. The Law on the State Auditing Institution prescribed that the DRI can provide advice to public funds users, give an opinion on issues in the field of public finances, provide professional assistance to the Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to ask specific representatives of the DRI, and appreciateing the importance of internal control and internal audit – how much they are willing in this regard to affecting the introduction of the internal control and internal audit system in essence, so to all those who are legally and legally prescribed, and not only formally, in terms of meeting the legal provision. Because it seems to me that it is also a very important point that some future audits give better effects. The second question in this regard is, for both you and the President and the Ministers, your position on the need to introduce fiscal rules, which is a practice in modern countries, and thus to ensure that public spending can be adapted without any influence or political cycles ahead of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37594	Thank you. Mr. Sretenović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37595	I thank Mr. Kasalovic for asking. That's a good question and we'll give an answer. Internal control and internal audit are certainly a complex process for certain beneficiaries of budgetary resources and, of course, it is envisaged that certain budget beneficiaries have internal control and internal audit. We looked primarily at direct beneficiaries of budgets in terms of functioning of their internal controls and internal audits. We have found that of the 25 beneficiaries of the budget -- 24 ministries and one agency, or BIA -- that we have looked at, five users have an internal control system, while 20 users, or ministries, have not established internal control. Internal control is organised as a system of procedures and responsibilities for all persons involved in financial and business processes, direct and indirect beneficiaries of budgetary resources. If there had been internal control in the ministries that were the subject of our audit, our report would certainly not have been the same as it was given, there would have been no such irregularities, because it would have prevented the procedure of introducing the internal controls themselves without talking about establishing an internal audit system. The internal audit is part of the control system for beneficiaries of the budget, and it certainly helps us because we can rely on an internal auditor's report in the work that controls and conducts internal control procedures. The internal audit is there, above all, to see how the process and internal control procedures are carried out, and it is within the DRI's jurisdiction to see how this internal control system and internal audit system works, which we, through our audit report, have provided certain information. According to the law, 18 beneficiaries of the budget were obliged to introduce an internal audit. We have established that out of these 18 beneficiaries of budgets seven have an internal audit system, while 11 users have not established an internal audit. But in the process of reviewing it in 2009, certain internal audit and internal control systems were set up for individual beneficiaries of the budget, as stated in our reports. What is most important, and I want to point out this time, is that the extremely large effects of our audit are in the part of establishing internal control and internal audit. We, when delivering and receiving certain reports from the beneficiaries of the budget funds that were the subject of our audit, have received assurances that internal control and internal audit have already been established in certain ministries which have been subject to the audit. The biggest problem is to find, above all, experts in internal audit with the beneficiaries of the budget. And we have met with a big problem, how to find expert staff for the operation of the DRI, given the low earnings of our authorised state auditors in the DRI, who work for the amount of 50 to 62 thousand dinars. I want to point out that during the two competitions, we were unable to choose the appropriate frame. That is exactly why this revision was not comprehensive. If we had a larger number of auditors, we would have also affected a larger number of beneficiaries of the budget and a greater number of expenditure items, i.e. expenditure in the final account itself. But it's important that she has developed awareness among all the users of the budget that there is a DRI. They've been kind of notified. Yesterday, we sent conclusions on the revision of certain beneficiaries of the budget, primarily with the ministries, based on certain criteria and procedures implemented. As Mr. Obradovic has already announced, he has reached a conclusion. I would like to point out that the beneficiaries of the budget are finally aware that there is a DRI and that all the beneficiaries of the budget will be subject to control.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37596	Mrs. Dragutinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37597	Since it was a further question for Mr. Kasalovic, I would like to try to answer it. You asked what the government or ministers' position was when it came to fiscal rules. To answer that question, I would remind all of us here together what functions are state or supreme audit institutions in full capacity. Assuming the DRI has full capacity, he should do three types of control. The first guy is financial control, so whether the financial report is correct, whether the state has spent as much as it claims, and that's what the DRI did to us. The second type of control is whether it was spent precisely for those purposes approved in parliament by the adoption of the Budget Law, and that is also what the DRI tried to respond to, although it did not form an opinion. There is also a third kind of control, which is a little talkable, which can and should be carried out by the DRI, which is whether taxpayers get value for their invested money, so what is the quality of public spending. Few countries in the world have this kind of control within the Supreme Auditing Institution. If our DRI could do that type of control, then there wouldn't really be a need for a law that regulates fiscal rules. But the fact is, we don't have that kind of control. What in such conditions? The practice is that there are in different countries or fiscal liability laws or, alternatively, there are some kind of advice, an independent body that tries to answer the question whether fiscal policy is conducted in accordance with the rules. I would remind you all once again that, in collaboration with the IMF, the Ministry of Finance is preparing to amend the Budgetary System Act, where certain fiscal rules will be included. But I underline once again, fiscal rules cannot take fiscal policy away from the hands of a government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37598	National MP Tomislav Nikolic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37599	I'm really embarrassed to be in a completely irregular session and to act like an audience in a theater, in a play you've prepared. Namely, the assembly session is for the public. For MPs who know the Rules of Procedure, it's not a session call. At a session like this, ministers and not other officials, as you have written, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, may answer, in an invitation to MPs or in an invitation to the National Assembly session. If the state auditor wanted to warn the public that he had submitted a report five months ago and that it was used by the government to direct reporters to the bar costs of certain ministries, to forget that there was a very bad living in Serbia, and that the ministries were spending as if there was no crisis, then you succeeded. What questions should we now ask the Prime Minister when Mr. Sretenovic is here? Are those two opposing sides? No, they're not. After all, the Prime Minister said yesterday - the governor has not yet been considered, but consultations will begin. The Prime Minister will determine who will be an independent governor, as the government has determined and who will be an independent auditor. All in this Serbia are independent, and those most independent depend on the ruling majority, which depends on the government of the Republic of Serbia, and so on. I have now learned from Mrs Dragutinovic that the auditor can control the quality of the funds received by the taxpayers for the tax they have paid. Is that right? He's going to change the Budget Law, he's going to say -- this ministry can't build a road, it's going to buy a TV? What are you trying to say, just to make yourself beautiful and smart, I don't get it, but the session we've been waiting for for five months, the auditor tells us which one of you should go to jail, is not welcome. We found out, Mr. Auditor, how much a minister spent at the bar for lunch. Thank you very much. That's what the waiters could have told us. We're interested in why this country is going down, what these little budget ministers are spending like they're out of control. That's all we care about, and we can't get a session like that. We're getting a session where we ask MPs questions. There is no agenda point - the government's responsibility for spending budget funds, but you have the right to ask a parliamentary question within three minutes. Thank God, only three ministers came. If 15 had come, then all five and two times five minutes to take advantage of it, our 180 minutes would have gone.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37600	Mr Nikolic, of course you have the right to your sources of information, but MPs should also get acquainted with the Law on the National Assembly, which regulates the way the National Assembly works. In particular, Article 48 says that at the invitation of the National Assembly president, the National Assembly can address and participate in the work, depending on the issues discussed, and representatives of other bodies, organisations and bodies. I've just applied that provision. Mr. Cvetkovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37601	First of all, I would like to comment on the position that you, Mr. People's Parliament, have made about spending as much money as you will, beyond what this Parliament has adopted, and to say that this attitude is not correct. I've prepared, so I'm going to tell you a few digits, because I don't want it to remain a qualitative flat rate and these figures are currently related to the revised year 2008. So, according to the 2008 budget, or budget rebalancing, this parliament approved that total expenditure from the budget in that year amounted to 695,959,000,000 dinars. If you look at the execution, the total cost was 667,851.000,000 dinars, close to 30 billion less than parliament approved the government. So it can't be said that it spends as much as anyone will, but on the contrary, spends less than the parliament itself, at meetings when deciding on the budget, has given. Not to bother with the numbers, I'm going to give you just three more, which refers to the structure of this consumption. So, in the current expenditures, which parliament approved to be 615 billion, spending was 601 billion, so less by 14; in capital, where 58 commas were approved, spending was 46, so less by 12; in the purchase of financial assets, where 21 billion were granted, spending was 20. These figures show unequivocally that you do not have information about how you spend and your estimates that you spend outside the framework that is given here are quite incorrect. Secondly, you've expressed your expectation of an arrest. I don't know what makes you think that. What I can say, quite responsibly and based on the reports we've seen, is that nowhere has it been found that there was any imagination or any intention of obtaining an anti-legal property benefit to yourself or others, so that even these misdemeanors that have been made are related to violations of the procedure, not to the desire to rob taxpayers. I now understand from your presentation why, instead of being watched in the context of a newspaper, which represents a democratic step forward and which will follow us, a story has actually appeared about how criminals should be arrested, etc. So what I'm saying, and I'm saying based on arguments and figures, is completely disabling your attitudes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37602	Thank you. Mr Tomislav Nikolic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37603	You know, Mr. Cvetkovic, when you're approved by the budget, we're also in charge of the revenue side. And of course you couldn't spend as much as we approved when you didn't make half as much money. You charge the budget with loans, loans, in ways that the world has never been filled with the budget. There's something else I have to tell you, even if you're getting as much applause as you want. You were all said by the citizens of Kurzumlia. One transparent frame and keep in your room. It says, "Cvetkovic, this is how you privatized us." So, Mr. Cvetkovic, you are now, individually speaking, the most responsible for many missed privatisations, for many privatisations carried out...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37604	I would ask you to stick to the subject and keep your questions on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37605	And I would ask you not to interrupt me. You have no right to warn me that I hurt the Rules of Procedure. At this session, no one has the right to warn the other that he has injured the Rules of Procedure. That's why you pushed out one of the MPs, she went out alone. So, Mr. Cvetkovic, I didn't say that you were going to be in prison, I don't know where you came from, but when you're examined for how privatisations are done, when it comes to finding out who is with the biggest criminals, including the Sharics, the government has co-operated to obtain property, then some of you will be subject to criminal charges and prosecutions and litigation disputes on which one of them can be accused, others to defend. But this session is not a session where an auditor would say something against how funds are spent. You'll never hear him say anything against how money is spent. It leaned on the bar, otherwise he'd say Dinkic gave his mother that kind of money for the institute. Whose money? Those men from Kursumli, Mr. Cvetkovic. Those people from Kragujevac, those from Novi Sad, all Serbian citizens. That's how it goes between you two. You have your plans, you have this institute that has come up with this way of privatisation, you've worked in it as a clerk, you've participated in all of this, today it's led to individuals leaving the sinking ship. You have not dared to say what the National Bank has done in the past few years, as it has ruined Serbia's economy. How did only banks do business positive every year? How come none of these banks here in Serbia have asked for their country's support, as they are in their home states? No, they made enough money at our orphanage, on repo-ops, on government loans. That's not what you're talking about. You're telling us that the auditor's report is good because there's been a few misdemeanor reports. I'm sorry, if that's true, then you should help Mladjan Dinkic win the Nobel Prize again. He wanted it three years ago, because he introduced the best way to lead Serbia's economy, from which, here, no one in Serbia can tear itself up anymore. You're not asking...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37606	Time! You want to answer? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37607	I'll be very brief. I just want to comment that I'm really sorry for the people of Kurzumli for participating in a privatisation that ended up negatively. You know that privatisation was done by themselves. So this company, supported by the union, was bought by the company's own managers, but I'm sorry they couldn't get it on their feet. I try, however, to determine how this circumstance knocks down my thesis that you've made the wrong and incorrect information about spending budgets. Believe me, I can't determine that. I thought it might be because of banks that are doing business positively, and I can't determine that, so I'm staying on the grounds that your findings, which were related to today's topic, were not correct and that no more funds were spent in the budget than was foreseen and approved by this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37608	The word is made by Minister Diana Dragutinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37609	I'll just be brief and my answer is addressed to MP Tomislav Nikolic. I don't understand whether you suspect there are three types of control of the DRI or the supreme audit institution. If you question that, I'm prepared to give you the literature from where you'll see that indeed the DRI, or the supreme audit institution, can carry out three kinds of controls. I said, he rarely does this third one, but there are six countries where he works. Also, it seems to me that you didn't understand what I was going to say by saying that DRI can assess whether the taxpayer gets value for his money, in English it's worth for the money, and the idea is that the state, or different ministries, have different programs. Programs introduce to achieve some goals. For example, if you have a program that should support the employment of young people, you have a goal of how many young people should be employed during a five - year period. So, an auditor at full capacity can tell if the program has led to an appropriate goal.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37610	The word has a folk MP, Susana Grubjesic. Three minutes to ask a question.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37611	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Dear fellow Members of the People, honourable government representatives headed by the prime minister, Mr Sretenovic, I would first like to thank Mrs Diana Dragutinovic for this explanation, as I, unlike Tomislav Nikolic, did not complete the accelerated course of the economy and I value the information you have given us. As for the debate on the report, this debate was held long ago in the Finance Committee, and before that, the public was familiar with what the DRI found. What I'm saying is that all the independent bodies this assembly has chosen, it should also care and keep, starting with the Guardians of Citizens, via the DRI, to the Anti-Corruption Agency. The congregation is the right place for these independent bodies to fit. Often, when I'm asked who controls independent bodies, I say Parliament. That's what the law says, and that's how it should be. The DRI has always had the support of parliament, the support of not only the relevant Finance Committee, but also the authorities and the opposition. I'm sorry that the parliamentary group who suggested you here came out. I don't understand why they came out. They could have gotten involved in the debate and shared with us the information we received five months ago. We have always pointed out the need for audits to cover all ministries and to include public enterprises. I am now not going to enter certain findings from the report, but it can be concluded that most of the failures were due to the lack of the necessary legal or legal regulations. According to the report, auditors have been working in the Treasury Administration building for almost a year, I don't remember you pointing out how to correct or repair certain irregularities you listed in the report. I also didn't hear you present a report on the need to pass any acts, regulations, laws, that would help overcome the gaps you encountered. My first question is, by what criteria have you chosen to audit these 14 ministries, one directorate and one administration, since you are legally owned to decide on the entities of the audit? The following is added to this – when will you perform the audit of all other ministries? There are 25 of them, we have a big government, but when are you going to do that other part of the job? I'll ask you another question later.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37612	Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Radoslav Sretenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37613	Thank you, Mrs Grubjesic, for asking. Here, I'll give you a concrete answer. I would like to announce that, in the absence of the many restrictive circumstances that followed us during 2007 and 2008, we were not able to provide an adequate list of the institutional capacities in the part of the space that we could not provide in time, of the audit staff that we could not provide, which had not been audited in previous years, we were not present with an adequate list when considering the final budget account for 2008 and others, we were not able to, with this capacity that we had available, which is four authorised and two top state auditors, give an opinion and cover a large number of expenditure items. Using the method from the standard for selecting audit entities to be subject to audit, the most important and most significant criterion was certainly a criterion of materiality, i.e. the participation of current expenditures of users in total expenditures of budgets greater than 3%. The next criterion is the participation of consumer expenditure in its total expenditures that are also above 3%. Of course, there is also a criterion that we thought should be classified, and that is the amount of all beneficiaries of budgets greater than two million dinars. Given the capacity that we had available, we decided to respect all these three criteria and additional criteria, where we considered and found that there were certain risk areas in the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2008 budget, which are primarily certain services under contract, starting with professional services, specialised services and certain costs, which we had during our report and processed. These were the basic criteria defined for the revision by 14 ministries, three administrations and one Directorate, which were subject to and observation in the part of certain expenditure items in the final account itself. We have also drawn up a report on the financial audit of their financial reports, which was the subject of our audit, which is 14 ministries, three directorates and one administrations, and the expenditure items that we have treated and processed in our reports are the components of the financial reports of certain ministries. So we gave our opinion to all the ministries and those entities of the Directorate and one administration. There is a positive opinion, and there is a negative opinion, and we gave it to those ministries. What Mr Obradovic said, we have defined that for his ministry, considering the other costs, we give a positive opinion, given that internal controls and internal audits, which were also the subject of the ministry, have convinced us that the remaining amounts in these financial reports have been objectively presented. I believe that during this year, in the revision of the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2009 budget, which is one of our main priorities, also in the absence of a number of audit staff, we will give an opinion and catch a full part of the coverage of the audit, so that we can give that opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37614	National MP Susana Grubjesic. Three minutes, right on two questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37615	Since this report itself, I've been more interested in what you've been doing ever since. It's been five months. What do you intend to do by the end of the year? Secondly, do you intend, since you have the right to do so, to enter a public enterprise and perform an audit? To tell you the truth, I'd be more interested in that report than the one that's in front of us today.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37616	The word is Radoslav Sretenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37617	In accordance with the rules of law, i.e. in accordance with the DRI Act and the DRI Rules of Procedure, the institution is obliged to establish its audit programme for the following year at the end of the year. Thus, at the end of December 2009, the DRI Council established its audit programme, starting with spatial, or audit capacities, primarily from the existence of audit staff capable of carrying out that audit. We have defined ourselves, and the law has decidently defined that five key points of review are every business year, or budget year. These are, above all, the final accounts of the Republic of Serbia's budget, then part of the National Bank relating to public and budget operations, the corresponding number of local self-government, the corresponding number of public enterprises and the revision of social security funds, primarily the pension fund, health insurance and the National Service. For the reason that we are unable to provide a professional and highly professional approach, we are not in a position to plan in detail the revision of public enterprises, although that obligation certainly stands, we must do so, and we also have a competition, which is not finished, on the selection of these auditors. Simply, no one wants to take over as top auditor in the local self-government sector, the fund sector and the public business sector precisely because of small and low profits. That's the basic reason why we don't have personnel and opportunities. In this regard, we have launched a procedure before the competent committee of the Serbian Parliament, in order to improve the material position of authorised and state auditors. We expect the decision of the Finance Committee to be found in the assembly procedure, so that we can continue the normal business of audit and public enterprises and local self-government. I would like to point out once again that in front of European officials, it is one of the conditions for Serbia to receive budget assistance during 2009 to amend the DRI Act. The European Commission has proposed that this be the Government. We felt, because of conflicts of interest and complete independence, that it would still be the competent Finance Committee, which had also proposed the DRI Act. Representatives of the European Commission have also accepted our position as a condition for Serbia to receive appropriate EU assistance is to review at least three public enterprises this year. The two sectors will start a review in public enterprises after the constitution. We will also determine in an appropriate manner and through standards which will be public enterprises and which will be local self-government. Since we are not able to carry out a revision of local self-government now, we have given consent to other audit institutions, commercial ones, that they can carry out an audit at a certain number of local self-government, because it is a legal obligation for the final account of local self-government to include the opinion of the auditor. Because of the inability to do this, we gave consent to local self-government that they could, in accordance with the procedure of selecting the auditory house, carry out the audit.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37618	The word has a People's MP, Zoran Krasic, three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37619	For the sake of the public, it must be known that this is a failed attempt by the parliamentary group and by the president of the ZES parliamentary group, Mrs Hope Kolundzie, to avoid a debate on the DRI report. It can't be avoided. We asked for more times, you refused, you said it would be on the agenda, so you found this formula. You've got the wrong formula. But to remind the public that what the auditor found in his report is not subject to control. That means it's true. They only carried out 27% of the controls and established so many irregularities that because of these irregularities, someone had to, at least because of honor, honesty, political morality and other things, to respond and, of course, to avoid what is going on in the media, which is burgers, kebabs, thin white wine, syringes, etc., to enter what is essential. Now, let the public remind me of the findings we can't talk about, we can't really change them. It is said this - the main book of the Treasury is not kept in accordance with Article 2 paragraph 1 point 15. The law on the budgetary system, so it does not contain all changes in accounts, i.e. it does not contain revenue and expenditure, and I do not read any further. The question is, what's been taken. Of course, to make it right. That's what this guy says. He's an accountant expert. But does anyone bear responsibility? Because you've done this control in the second half of 2009, and you realize what was done throughout 2008. Next finding – internal control. Of the 25 ministries, only five have, three have been in the process of establishing control. In the second half of 2009, the report refers to 2008, when it was not there. Then we come, Mr. Sretenovic, to one of your findings (when I say yours, I mean the Institution). It is said this way - at a session held on 25.12.2008 the government concluded in which: first - accepted report, under two - loans used by the budget for cover, under three - the Ministry of Finance is in charge... You have all this beautifully written on page 49, and on page 50 of the brightest irregularities where the Government and the Ministry of Finance directly violate the regulations brought by the National Assembly and the regulations brought by the Government. That's consistent. What are the consequences? Let's move on. Take, say, page 58. Let me just finish you off with a sentence -- the Ministry of Finance, the Treasury Administration, the refund of funds recorded by reducing the deficits from earlier years instead of in favour of the current year's surplus. This way, the deficit from earlier years was underestimated, as was the surplus of the current year. So it has nothing to do with burgers, it has nothing to do with official trips, it has nothing to do with fuel, it has nothing to do with anything else, it has nothing to do with you. If you don't change, there will be even more chaos in public finances. That is why this report is important and why the public needs to know why ZES and Hope Kolundji do not allow an open debate. But you can't avoid her.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37620	Three minutes. Thank you. Have there been any reports of an answer to the identified question? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Diana Dragutinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37621	I'm trying to recognize the questions, and I hope I recognize them all. About the first question or finding out what the main book of the vault is, I have to say. You know, Mr Krasic, that the finance minister, current and former, and the current prime minister in 2008 inherited the information system. The information system I inherited consists of three modules. One module is the budget implementation account, the other is public debt or traset, and the third is the main book module. The budget implementation module is linked to the main book module. So I inherited such an information system. What do I mean? There are two ways to account for the implementation of the budget. The first way is for all payments to be made from one place. Another way is not to make payments from one place. The system we have, which is otherwise an EU donation, is a system that says all payments are not made from one place. So the system we have supports direct budget users. The system I'd like to have is to pay from one place, but this is how I inherited it, and it can't be fixed overnight. The goal we're going towards, but it can't be without three or four years, is that everything is paid from one place and not only directly, but also indirect budget users are covered by the system. At that time, the main book will also cover transactions that support indirect budget users. So the system is inherited. The system is a donation. The main book supports such a system, which is - only direct budget users. The next thing I noticed was the accuracy of the financial report, saying that one deficit was in an account filed by the government, or the Ministry of Finance, and the other after the audit, I also have to remind you that there is something in the audit called material significance. Otherwise, I'm a statisticist, so I know there's a statistical error, which is always below 5%. When we talk about reviewing legal entities, a 5% statistical error is also allowed. When it comes to the state, there are stricter review standards and there is an error between 0.5% and 3%. So the financial report is correct if the error is at an interval of up to 3%. I note, too, that for the first time we are doing audits and that, in some ways, we are facing some problems for the first time. Here was the problem with what cash is and what's the cash equivalent. The Ministry of Finance and the supreme audit institution did not have the same opinion. But, I repeat, the mistake that was made means that the deficit in 2008 was smaller and that it was not materially significant. Therefore, the financial report is correct.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37622	The Prime Minister wants a word. You have two minutes at your disposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37623	I'll only be 10-15 seconds, since there was, among other things, the internal audit issue that we've heard before, to say that the MP himself said that there were only five, so in 2009, he knows that it started at five and I'm asking the question -- how long was it at the time when the SRS was in power for internal audits, when we now have to start introducing internal audits? So, as many as there were, we went that way and there will be more of them, and in due course everyone will have an internal audit. I'd like that to be considered, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37624	The word is made by MP Zoran Krasic, who is entitled to three minutes and two questionings.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37625	Mr. Cvetkovic, this is 2010, not 2001. This is a report that refers to this when you're the Prime Minister. Let go of what happened in 2000. That's not in this report. Stick to the subject, Mr. Cvetkovic. You were the accountant back then. Stick to the subject. Now let the public hear even further. I thank Mrs. Nadia Kolundji, the ZES has so generously given room to inform the public. Gentlemen, I'm reading what's written in the report, and you're attacking it. Here's Mr. Sretenović, grab him by the handle, and make a deal with what's true and what's not true. Here, respected citizens, how the government of Mirko Cvetkovic works. It says - the allowed amount of the loan from the consolidated Treasury account from, according to the Regulation, 60% of the daily balance of the previous day was exceeded in two cases (see date): 30.12.2008 for 12.1 million dinars and 31.12.2008 for 2.7 million dinars. That's what the report says. You laugh, that's your report. You can't even sum up numbers, you're writing "millions." It says - loans of 35 million dinars have not been recovered by the end of the 2008 budget, contrary to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and the Public Debt Act. Who's responsible, Mr. Sretenovic? Who does this point apply to? Further - the return of the short-term loan from 2008 was made in 2009, contrary to the provisions of the Public Debt Act. These are your findings. This was not invented by Slobodan Maras, Zoran Krasic, Moma Markovic, Nada Kolundžija. No one made that up. We ask that the DRI Act be respected. If we don't go into math and bookkeeping, that's your job. You have exercised control, informed us, we have seen 27% of the sample – disaster. What did you do? Drive with applications, do whatever you want, it's in your jurisdiction, but the public needs to know – if the government is directly breaking its rules and it determines the DRI, I'm sorry, please don't call the drivers. But your main problem is the driver, not the government's phone session, not how you're in charge and what you're spending on. Thank you, Mrs. Nado Kolundji, thank you for allowing the ZES to give the public the opportunity to hear what I read and what the auditor wrote. Replicate, but who? The auditor? Go over there and replicate. I'm not looking for your judgment on what the auditor wrote, it's the law, but I'm asking what you've done to remove the shortcomings.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37626	Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Minister Diana Dragutinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37627	I know the Imperial doesn't deny it and I know what the DRI's role is. This is one of the few things and the findings in the report of the Supreme Auditing Institution that I disagree with and that is why I will try to answer this question and say what the Ministry of Finance has done in this regard. The first thing, internal loans, means loans from one state authority to another state body, according to international financial standards or statistics, are not considered public debt. Because the state is the only one, we don't divide the state into two or three parts, so that one part of the state is owed to another part of the state and there's no debt. That's one thing. Internal loans, according to the Public Debt Act, are simply not public debt. It is precisely the role of the Treasury and the possibility of internal loans that the costs of the state to manage liquidity make it as small as possible. So, if there is an apparent surplus of funds in the account of some users, and the budget of the Republic of Serbia, as another user, has a shortfall, why to be in debt on the financial market, why to take credit, it is better to use the extra funds temporarily. Loans come back on a regular basis. How do they get back? At the time when the Republic of Serbia's budget has more resources than those day-to-day commitments, they automatically return. And they always go back to their oldest obligations, so there's no loan that's 10-15 days old. So, what regulation was broken? I have to share it with you here and publicly admit it. There's a rulebook, which is something signed by the finance minister. In that rule I saw two things - that it is possible to use these internal loans to 60% level and that internal loans should be returned by the end of the year. The rule has been changed. Internal loans do not have to return on December 31st, because they return on a daily basis. In that sense, the Regulation has been amended. I think it's also more efficient to manage cash at this point and that the lower costs of debt service are based solely on the change in the Regulation.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37628	He's two minutes away. Who wants a word? Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37629	I'm going to do it again very briefly, regarding the conclusion that we should stick to the subject and I to that conclusion...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37630	Excuse me, Mr. President. People's MPs, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on custody are in force, and I ask you not to violate the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. Go on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37631	I wanted to say that the requirement to stick to the subject is very legitimate and I think it applies to everything. I haven't talked about the budget and the audit before, but I've given it picturesquely, but I think you're right, this session doesn't apply to the control of that budget when you've been in power and I think you can be happy about it. As for the tone you want to pass on to the public as there have been a lot of criminal acts, I don't think you can really influence the fact that it's been said and I'm going to repeat it, which is that, when you look at the overall report of the auditors, there are a number of mistakes and irregularities in it, but there's no intention, any actions that would have had the sound of crime, of taking money, etc., and that's the fact that it has to start when it's interpreted what the government was doing last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37632	Mr. Radoslav Sretenovic wants a word. You, in practice, only have a minute, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37633	Even though Mr Krasic is not present in the O.R. (I don't see him) and all the circumstances he has presented, I think that the Public Debt Act says that the loan must be returned by 31 December of the current year and cannot exceed 5% of the revenues in that year. Because of such things that happened in the Treasury, the DRI, in agreement with the relevant legal provisions, filed a misappropriation against the responsible person, director of the Treasury Administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37634	National MP Momir Markovic, I warn you of the obligation not to throw away or interfere with the work of other speakers and participants at the session. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dragoljub Micunovic. Please sign in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37635	Madam Chairman, Mr. President and members of the Government and members of the DRI, this session, in a certain way, creates anxiety among individual parliamentary groups or individuals. The problem is whether or not we can talk about the subject and there is a political charge to then say political attitude, no matter what we talk about. Of course, we need to look at things evolutionaryly, and we, as Parliament, will eventually progress, and the government and the audit committee will progress, and we hope that one day we will be able to have a clearer situation as regards the spending of financial resources. So, I'd stick to the subject, although I could ask a lot of different questions. What was the task of the Reviszione Commission, if I understand the revision correctly, was that supercontrol, which ultimately tells what about the government's reports, but also probably, and the government has control, for example. its budget inspection, which controls individual budget users. It's also reports or controls. However, there are some border situations, which I don't know if, first of all, the government's budgetary inspection is doing, and I don't even know if he's paying attention to it himself. There are situations where the government is a co-financer, so one of the participants in funding various cultural, sports, humanitarian organisations, which is all normal and good. This helps the country's humanitarian situation, as well as culture and everything else. I am interested – is the Government, where it is a participant with significant or less significant financial resources from the budget, participating, and its budgetary committee, in control of how these funds have been spent and what is their destiny?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37636	Thank you. Who wants to give an answer? Minister Diana Dragutinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37637	I'd say the control function is at the beginning. Like the DRI at the beginning, we know that we passed the law in 2005, here's when we have the first DRI report, it's similar to the state-level control function. What is defined by the Budgetary System Act, and we don't have full capacity, for the same reason we don't have full capacity or the Supreme Auditing Institution, is -- we don't have personnel, we don't have resources, we don't have the right equipment, etc. So there are multiple levels of control. The first one's so-called. Financial control, i.e. the control carried out within the framework of the budgetary user or the beneficiaries of public funds. After that, there's an internal audit. These are all some, essentially, controls. In addition to the controls for which budget beneficiaries plus the finance ministry are responsible with their harmonized unit, there are so-called controls, and that is the budgetary inspection. Finally, there is a supreme audit institution. So control is done like in some circles. When you ask me if the budget inspection controls the funds, the answer is yes, but you should never forget how much this budget inspection is and that the general importance of the budget inspection is weakened by the strengthening of the supreme audit institution. The budget inspection has a plan and a program. The plan and programme are signed by the finance minister. They are handled by risk analysis and go where they consider the risk to be greatest, i.e. there are reasonable doubts that money is not spent in accordance with the law. So control is also the subject of such organizations. Of course, not often, not every one, but according to the plan and the program, yes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37638	Anyone else want to give an answer? Three minutes is available. No, I don't. ) If not, MP Dragoljub Micunovic has the right to another three minutes and two questions. Just sign in, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37639	Thank you for this explanation of how much these controls have, but I would show you on one or more examples that it would be useful if we had, however, some insight. I don't know, maybe we do, but I didn't hear. For example, the audit report shows that 100,000 euros were sent to Kosovo by the KIM ministry, but is not seen, at least according to the auditor's report, where it ended and for what purposes. Well, with that in mind, we have another problem. We have seen that the Serbian Orthodox Church itself has opened up the problem of what is happening in Raško-Prizrenska eparchy, under the leadership of Bishop Artemia. It is good that the SPC has launched this investigation, it is good that it has also launched, as far as I am aware, my control and the cost of building the temple of the Holy Sava, but the Serbian government or various institutions have also participated in the restoration of the monastery in Kosovo, the business of exceptional national and cultural importance, and the construction of the temple. Is only the bishop of Atanasia, who has been authorized to do so, controlling what really happened to money in Kosovo and business in general and whether only after his statement by the bishop Artemis, etc., or is there some financial costs or abuses? Do we now leave it to Sinod, which is very good that the Synod will discuss it, or are we, in part, investors in many of these affairs, also taking part in this joint or special, as you will, commission? There are a number of other things where the government participates and finances, (sports, cultural and other), not to mention the Court or other things here. Is she following the fate of these budgets? If he's following her, how is he following her? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37640	Does anyone want to give an answer? Yes, Minister Diana Dragutinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37641	Yes, budget inspection can and should monitor the fate of spent state money when the state transfers it to various sports societies, humanitarian organisations, NGOs, etc. It's just a matter of budget inspection capacity. Let's assume the tax administration case. How many inspectors do we need to get the inspector into every company? The inspector can't get into every company. Even a budgetary inspector can't get into every NGO and every humanitarian organization. The finance minister is building a plan and a control program. That plan and the program is coming up in a year's time. He often changes and orders emergency controls. So he's right, and he's doing it, but he can't work in every charity organization, in every sports society. So the question is capacity.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37642	Anyone else want to give an answer? You have four minutes at your disposal. No, I don't. ) In that case, the word has the People's MP Miroslav Markicevic. He's not there. National MP Miroslav Markicevic subsequently asked to be on the list of MPs who are using their right to ask a question, and I am obliged to read it in order, given that the "New Serbia" parliamentary group is smaller than the LDP parliamentary group. The People's MP Free Maras has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37643	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the government, or DRI, dear colleagues, I just have to mention a few things that have already been said in the previous debate. It's very important for the public to know. Of the 25 ministries, 20 has no internal control and audit. The 2008 final bill was handed over, so after the DRI report was withdrawn, so after three days he was brought back here and now stands in one drawer, I guess, and we'll wait for the day when... I have to correct Mrs. Kolundji - the Finance Committee unanimously reached a conclusion last December 7th, proposed to the National Assembly, to hold a special session, and in accordance with Article 115, the final position, dedicated to the DRI report. Mrs Dragutinovic and Mr. Prime Minister, when Cedomir Jovanovic spoke of 14.9 billion, he spoke about the privatisation funds from 2005 and 2006, he did not return to 1992. But now I'd like something quite concrete. The basic and most dramatic examples of the DRI report speak of the following. Public procurement of about two billion dinars is in the gray zone. Without the procurement process, the Republic Public Revenue Authority has obtained 110 million dinar fuel charges. The finance ministry -- income and expenditure balances account for 379 million donations, and no loans from the 14.9 billion dinar budget have been recovered. The economy ministry has contracted 18-and-a-half million dinar fees. Although the Ministry of Economy is the most massive, it has a description of jobs as amazing, systematiced jobs and these systematic jobs they paid under the contract for part of the fee. In the Republic Property Directorate, all employees (see, all employees) worked overtime and received eight million dinars. But I would go back to the most drastic example, which is the ministry I think has largely violated the rules of the game, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. That's the minister that many people like to call, because they share stoves, jeans, banners in an election campaign, with a folk mother. Some others think he's a human accident dealer. His ministry, the ministry of Rasim Ljajic, has the most irregularities according to the DRI report, in spending budgets. Assistant Tatjana Matic said - for each of these irregularities we have a rational explanation. That's the stupidest excuse anyone could say. It's completely out of my mind. You also have a report from the OSCE mission, which found, when it comes to public procurement (finding, yet only a sentence) what are the most frequent irregularities - a short and indefinite deadline for submission of offers, an indefinite moment of opening of public offers, a call for a certain trade mark of these products, a exclusion of the public when opening offers, a refusal of offers that meet the conditions, an unauthorized annexation of the procurement contract, changes of the terms of the realisation under the signed contract. I have a question for the prime minister – what will you do with responsible people, especially when it comes to public procurement? A question for Mr. Sretenovic, the auditor – why did he not file a complaint against Minister Rasim Ljajic if he filed against his assistants?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37644	The word is Mirko Cvetkovic, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37645	Dear People's MP, first of all, I would like to thank you for reading the list of irregularities. We, of course, as well as the public, are familiar with them and the auditor, based on these irregularities, has initiated appropriate misdemeanours, so I would not particularly look back and now bid one at a time. They're gone and there's gonna be a debate about it. You mentioned the question of withdrawing the report, internal control and also interpreting that the president of your party was right when he spoke about 2005-2006. First, of course, I agree with you, he was right, I didn't say it wasn't true, but it wasn't completely. That's why I said these cases have happened since 1992, and that, I said very precisely, at the conclusion of 2007. In 2008, in the year in which the review was carried out, these cases were not and were all resident from the previous, 15-year or slightly higher, period. As far as internal control is concerned, you yourself said that at the time of the audit, only five ministries had it. Of course, I agree here, and actually, let me say, maybe I'm also happy that I've had an obligation to ensure that internal control is introduced in all ministries, although you'll understand, I'd rather have inherited a government that has internal control in all ministries than just five. When the 2008 report was withdrawn, one moment it turned out that there was all this fuss about it, as if something wanted to change, etc., and the essence was very simple. Since the auditor made an observation in the way the course differences were calculated, which consequently had to do with some of the figures in the final account, the Ministry of Finance expressed its view that it had done it correctly, the state auditor had a different view, and we finally said that the state auditor was right. We accepted his position, though some still feel that there may be another possibility. On that basis, we withdrew the report and, as you yourself said, within two or three days, you returned it. It was one purely technical thing, to reconcile that part that was controversial. So there's no name. Simply, the report was withdrawn and returned for this reason, and there were no other corrections in it. What I was going to do with those who had these criminal charges is that I was at the beginning, as the information began to arrive that there was a great thief, etc., wanted to, practically, all those who had criminal charges to be replaced. Someone can't have a big job without being under suspicion of criminal responsibility. However, when it comes to misappropriations and violations most of which are some kind of procedural and, as you have heard from the exposure, many of them also inherited, I simply don't think it's the basis for being asked to resign or to be removed, because it's the lowest level of the offense, and yet I'm going back to the fact that there's no imagination or desire to get money in the wrong way, whether it's to get it to myself or to someone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37646	National MP Slobodan Maras, 30 seconds is available for a previous answer. So, Free Maras, three minutes and two questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37647	I am sorry that Mr. Cvetkovic did not leave time for Mr. Sretenovic to answer. Mr. Cvetkovic, five health homes in Belgrade are in custody for public procurement. Your ministerial assistants and ministers are committing major abuses when it comes to public procurement, according to the DRI report. That's one. Under two, 2005 and 2006, privatisation funds did not go to poor citizens, to deal with pathetics, but went, Mrs Dragutinovic, to public enterprises, to the NIS in 2008. You can laugh as much as you want, in 2008 in October, 20 companies in Europe for profit, the final account of the NIS handed over, then withdrawn, and suddenly 100m euros in losses. That's how you divided public enterprises and it wasn't returned. So we're talking about these funds in 2005 and 2006. We have a big problem. We have in that report, Mrs Dragutinovic, data that public enterprises have been receiving. Of course, there is no word on the oil industry of Serbia. I repeat, because they went from plus to minus at the end of 2008. How? No one's ever explained that to us. We want the DRI to enter public enterprises, but we also want Mr. Sretenovic to enter political parties, to control how political parties are financed and how they spend budget funds. That's a question for you. I ask you to answer me and why you have not filed a complaint against the Minister for Labour, or his assistants. You want to privatize Telekom now. No problem, and we're for privatising public enterprises, but with a certain strategy, not to make decisions ad hoc. Mr. Cvetkovic, if I ask you a question, please answer it. How do you feel there's no responsibility? This court, or investigative authorities, should determine whether it is criminal or criminal. But if the heads of health homes in Belgrade, five of them, ended up in custody because they abused the Public Procurement Act, why couldn't the assistant ministers and ministers respond in the same way? You have a DRI report, it says black on the white who abused the law in that context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37648	Who wants to give an answer? Radoslav Sretenović. Please, just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37649	Mr. Marash, I will certainly answer your question. There was no time, so I just picked up the phone first. The responsibility of officials, direct beneficiaries of budget funds, is governed by Article 50. Budgetary system law. According to that law, the head of the ministry, we are speaking specifically now about the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, as you asked, has transferred powers to the Secretary of State and his assistant by written means. Those powers are with us, and we delivered them to a court of law. For these reasons, we have not filed a complaint against Minister Rasim Ljajic, because it is precisely written in the power that empowers him and all those irregularities and illegalities in the ministry that were identified were precisely the documents we have, that the documents were signed exclusively by the State Secretary and Assistants. For these reasons, and the application was filed. It is now in the jurisdiction of the court and the court will qualify. That's one question I want to answer. Secondly, you asked the question when we're going to start reviewing political parties. We already have within the National Bank a sector that also deals with the audit of donations and operations of the National Bank and political parties and other entities receiving assistance. Since there is only one authorised auditor and one trainee, we are now unable to carry out detailed audits and donations and political parties, but I hope that after recruiting new auditors in the sector (the competition has not yet been completed) we will also be able to carry out a review of political parties in the work that uses funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget. We are not also able to carry out a detailed review of political parties for those funds that the political parties received from foreign and other donors, but only for funds financed from the budget. I hope that's where we'll start this year if we get new auditors in that sector. That goes for public enterprises, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37650	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) Minister Diana Dragutinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37651	I'd just like a few observations after the presentation of MP Maraš. After DRI's report and the findings that the donations were "dried out," I've carefully analyzed the donation problem, and I think I can safely tell you that there's no evaporation donations. Therefore, it is indisputable that the records are not in line. The Ministry of Finance's record has its own department, which is called the Department for Co-ordination and Programming of Foreign Assistance, there is a Treasury, or budget implementation account, and there is a National Bank of Serbia. So there's a variety of records that aren't consistent. What exactly is this about? The Ministry of Finance, that department, registers all donations that come to the Republic of Serbia, but not only for direct or indirect budget users, but also for different NGOs, municipalities, etc. It's something that's the widest expensive. And not just that. It's all those donations that are in both money and nature. When it comes to NBS, the National Bank registers only the inflow of foreign exchanges based on donations, and only those donations that came to the NBS foreign exchange account, since there are donors who condition, for various reasons and procedures, to get the donation to the account of the business bank. In the end, the most expensive set, that's what direct budget users get, which is seen in budget implementation. So all donations that have arrived, whether in nature or in money, are registered at the Ministry of Finance and are correct. You have commented again on the withdrawal of the report. He also commented on the prime minister, for me again, to call on this concept of materialism, that it really is not a statistically significant mistake and that, let's say, it is a conflict of opinion between the services. I'm also not an auditor, nor have I ever liked accounting, but there was an interpretation within my professional service of what the cash principle is. The cash principle or the cash principle, based on which transactions are actually recorded, is that you record income when money comes to you, or the expenditure when your money is gone. However, there are so-called. Cash of equivalents and exchange rate differences are cash of equivalents. I repeat, too, that after this correction, the financial result or the fiscal result is better, not worse.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37652	The word is Mirko Cvetkovic, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37653	I will briefly look back on this parallel as some have violated the Public Procurement Act, so they are in prison, and even though there are violations with me, I see it quite differently. About those in prison, I really don't have any information, but I want to tell you, Mr. People's Parliament, that it's a completely wrong analogy you're using. Then you'd be essentially identical to the next one. Let's look at the Traffic Safety Act. Someone went through the red light, and someone didn't tie the belt, and then you say, why don't you punish the one who didn't tie the belt like the one who went through the red, because they broke the same law. It's just that this analogy doesn't stand. The degree of guilt will be determined by the judge and I don't want to talk about it, but certainly, if the blame was determined in a way that someone was sent to prison, then it's a certain qualification to be called to account in terms of his position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37654	The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37655	Dear Mrs Comic, the Honorable Prime Minister, respected ministers and respected representatives of the DRI, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, once again, I would like to say very clearly and precisely that it is very important that the DRI did its part of the work, i.e. that, as an independent institution, it gave its opinion on the state of public finances in 2008. The SPS-JS parliamentary group, of course, welcomes the work of the DRI and we believe that this is a good basis for introducing order when it comes to public finances. What we want to ask as a question is: has the government of the Republic of Serbia helped the work of the DRI and has it done anything when it comes to the position of the auditor in order to make the job more efficient? On the other hand, once again, we want to realize that the fact that this government has nothing to hide. We are convinced that the next DRI report will be both more extensive and comprehensive and more precise, that it will not apply only to 27% of public finances, as far as it relates, I think, and only to the state budget. Public finances aren't just a state budget. It seems to me there are still about 8,000 entities that are subject to review. What, in our opinion, is not good is that the DRI report first appeared in public and afterwards at a session of the Republic Parliament's Committee of Resorship. It seems to us that the very appearance of the report in the public first created one, I would say, a basis for politicization. In this context, we ask the question, of course, for DRI representatives – do you think future practice should be changed in this respect? Of course, the public should not be excluded, it is true that nowhere explicitly and precisely does it stand out that the report should first appear at a session of the Committee, but simply, we believe that in this way, you will certainly agree with me, raise credibility and the Republic Parliament and the Resolution Committee, of course, the DRI. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37656	Minister Obradovic has a word. Here you go, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37657	I'd just like to say a few sentences on Mr. Milicevic's question. Since the Prime Minister is not here, I will take the right to say something on behalf of the government. My colleague Diana and I are here. It would be incorrect of us to talk about what the government has technically done to improve the work of the DRI when Mr. Sretenovic is there. It makes perfect sense for him to say that. But what I think is the government's contribution and the general position of the state auditor and one normal atmosphere in a democratic society like Serbia today, it seems to me that the government of the Republic of Serbia has somehow accepted the DRI report most realistically. We accepted this as something that exists, as something that is part of the public finances of the Republic of Serbia and part of the work that it is and being, and as a valuable help from the government (I speak now and as a minister) in the work that we do. We didn't give excessive grades, we didn't give any qualifications, we didn't give prior judgments. We, as a government, said - okay, the report is here. We're ready to announce to the state auditor what we think of that report. We are also prepared to prepare documentation for those ministers who are subject to criminal charges to meet the judicial authorities. We are prepared to accept the court's decision as final. In any case, we, as a government, acted perfectly normally, that this is part of the financial life of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that it shows that the government in the part of spending the funds worked in the best way possible, and that what is put in place as an observation for us will be a good basis for us to correct these things in the years to come, that the government may propose tomorrow or the day after, because it seems to me that colleague Susana Grubjesic mentioned that the report does not contain that part. In any case, we will have to, no matter who is in charge, whether this House, the Assembly, whether the auditor has the initiative or the government considers it necessary, bring in appropriate regulations that will improve and work on the ministries and resolve some issues that we have different views on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37658	Here you go, Mr. Sretenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37659	Mr. MP, we spoke at one of the Committee meetings, when you pointed out that it would be better if the first competent and resolution committee of the Serbian Parliament, the Finance Committee, were introduced to the audit report, which was made public on 27 November by holding a press conference. At that time, I said that we wanted to avoid any influence on any side, MPs or members of the Committee or Parliament or any audited entity, and for these reasons this report was both made public, as well as in many of the top institutions in the world that do so. However, we are certainly ready after that discussion to discuss the DRI report, before it is published on the site, or at a press conference, at the same time, but after an hour or half an hour in a closed room, when journalists should not go out to release the report, that such a report, after meeting the resolution board with that report, should be published transparently. Such practice exists in many other institutions. I would like to point out that, before the conference was held, DRI delivered a report to the National Assembly at 9:37 p.m. The report was in the Assembly. The president of the Assembly was delivered before holding a session and a conference. In your question, it's important how much the government helps us in all of this, in the security of space. After two years we finally got the right business space. However, this space is not enough to recruit new personnel. It takes more space. It is now essential that the Government assist us in supporting and amending the DRI Act in order to allow for improvement of material conditions for the work of state auditors. By increasing the salaries of authorised state auditors, we would be in a position to attract more professional, responsible and professional staff, so that we could carry out more audits in a number of users and give an appropriate opinion on all issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37660	Mr. Milicevic again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37661	Mr. Sretenovic, I don't think we understood each other very well. I have not disputed for a moment that the report should be made public. I didn't say for a moment that the public shouldn't be familiar with the content of the report. I made a very precise announcement and said that there is no explicit point in saying that it should be at the session of the Committee of Representatives, but that, simply as a Parliament club, we believe it is perfectly logical that the content of the report is spoken of at the session of the Committee of Resolution and that after that, the contents of the report itself appear in the public. When you're going to hold a press conference afterwards, that's, of course, your thing, that's the DRI thing. I want to supplement that with one finding. Let's say, when it comes to a misapplication related to the Ministry of Education, after the public appearance, many media have talked about some catering services, and this has led to the context that the minister used catering services rather than the ministry at the whole level. So simply so as not to lead the public astray, it's very important that we make a order of moves. I repeat, it does not stand anywhere explicitly, but for the sake of strengthening credibility and the DRI and the Republic Parliament, for the future, for the next time period, I said that we believe that the next DRI report will be both better and more comprehensive and extensive, that the government will do whatever is necessary in this respect, which is necessary, that we as MPs, as far as we can, will participate in this. I told the DRI that we respect his independence, respect her position as an independent institution. As far as responsibility itself is concerned, that, among other things, has also been the case today. It's simple, we think it's early to talk about any responsibility. It should wait and, of course, leave it to the judicial authorities that without pressure, just as the DRI has done its job as an independent institution, they make a decision and do their part of the job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37662	Thank you. Word has Minister Diana Dragutinovic
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37663	I'd like to add a few more sentences about what the government is doing to improve the working conditions of the DRI. I'd like to say that, by the very nature of the job, the DRI had the most work to do in the vault. I really do, and there's Mr. Sretenovic and his team to confirm, that the Treasury Administration was trying to ensure the best conditions of the DRI work. Also, the finance ministry, regardless of always being hit by the DRI, again because of the nature of the ministry, understands the importance of the DRI, but also the Anti-Corruption Agency. Conscious of this importance, the Ministry of Finance gave a positive opinion that the DRI should be provided with more funding, as they can find better quality people and provide good audits with higher funds. Why is the revision very important to us? This is the first revision that's been done. What's very important is what's going to be second. It's easy to spot faults, now we need to find a solution. What would be very important to me is that in the second revision, the number of irregularities is much smaller. Personally, I have to say, it didn't bother me that the report first appeared to the public, because I like public pressure, and professional public opinion, when it comes to controlling state resources. I am more concerned about the way it was interpreted, because in Serbia, it seems, only negative news - news. So, the public is fine, and all together, with independent institutions, and as a government, and with the help of the public, we will fight to make each subsequent report not only better, but also to have a positive view of the financial report become a rule.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37664	Mr. Minister, do you want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has the People's MP Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37665	They repeat their finding that after the DRI report, it can never be the same in this country as before. I will focus only on the problem that I consider important to the severity of the abuse of public funds, because this abuse is measured, only on one job, by a number of 30-40m euros, and as regards the operations of the National Bank, or the Institute for the Making of Monetarys, and I ask the question – is there ever a single dinar of profits paid to the government's account? To make a point, you have in the DRI report that the National Bank, based on interest on deposits that you, as the Ministry of Finance, have kept with them, only one small portion of them transferred, the rest of the interest is attributed, and business relations between the government and the NBS are retroactively covered by the contract. It's a shame. There is no businessman whose inspection would allow him to cover contractual relations on January 1st of that year, ending at the end of the year. What's the matter? In a report on the work of the National Bank for 2008, i.e. in 2009, where the Council, without an apology to the expression, is aware of how to justify the alleged achievement of a good result, and the budget has not been passed on by any single dinar and alleged profits, they are agreed, as the text of the report we received, how they explain to the public that they have not sold part of the foreign reserves, so that part of the realised but unfulfilled surpluses are not paid into the budget. And at a time when the National Bank, through the Office for the Making of Wallets, deals, please listen to me carefully, with economic activity, obtaining that institution a monopoly position on the market through the production of excise stamps, all health prescriptions, creating current health legislation and overa stamps, printing all insurance policies for all insurance companies. It has to be done on the orders of the National Bank in this particular coin of money. What else does the personalization centre ZIN do and how much profit does it make? As two state institutions, the National Bank of Serbia and the Republic Institute...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37666	Time! Can I help you? Who wants to answer?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37667	I don't think they can answer. I'd use my three minutes right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37668	I would only answer the question I recognized about whether the National Bank of Serbia paid the profits to the Republic of Serbia's budget. It's about the 2008 report. In 2008, it wasn't, but in 2009 it won a profit and we expect a payment between two and three billion dinars this year on behalf of the NBS.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37669	Mr. Sretenovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37670	I want to answer your question about the retroactive conclusion of the contract between the National Bank of Serbia and the Ministry of Finance. The budgets of the Republic of Serbia, both dinar and devisable, are certainly managed in the accounts of the Treasury, i.e. the National Bank. In this regard, a retroactive contract was concluded at the end of 2008, which concerned funds based on payment and interest gains of 2.5% at the National Bank. These funds have been transferred, as is written in the report. In the light of the contract and the contractual obligations that were in that contract, we found no elements that this part had been counter-edited and that the interest had been transferred in a small or larger amount, but just as the contract had been concluded. We didn't think it had any effect on the part of the transfer of funds. The contract is, it's true, it's concluded retroactively, but we couldn't bear to file an appropriate application and initiate responsibility, because the contract was closed late, but we saw that the funds were transferred and the provisions of the contract were respected, regardless of what was concluded retroactively.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37671	Here you go, Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37672	I don't think anyone can accept this answer as an answer, or a promise that we'll see it in some future report. I'm talking about the practice that's being seen in the papers and in what's going on today, and today it's happening next. In "The Official Messenger" No. 5 An ad has been published on the assignment of new health legislation for 7.2 million users by direct contract, meaning by violating the Public Procurement Act, where the money coin is allegedly the only organization that can do so, and based on a certain document delivered by the Chamber of Commerce, which also does not correspond to the truth. I'm interested in the value of the contract on 7.2 million health books. Experts argue that the cost of producing health legislation in Germany is 1.2 euros, with all profits and costs around three euros, and the public says that these health legislations will cost close to seven euros. On what basis will the Kovnica of Money, i.e. the NBS, earn between 30 and 40m euros, in violation of the Public Procurement Act, abuse of the monopoly position, by dealing with economic activity and making profits from which we have not yet seen that the budget of any deficit has managed to cover such profits, and since 2006, the National Bank has made a loss of 365m euros, at the time of the course, paying for repo operations interest that was 100% higher than the inflation target of the National Bank in that year? Is this and such information, which you will have the opportunity to obtain evidence of only in public, hiding one of the reasons for leaving the ship by Governor Jelasic? You might want to make him a hero, like Ante Markovic. But ask pedantic statisticians how many percent of industrial production has dropped and how many people are out of work. Mrs Dragutinović, we are speaking here under the DRI Act, the Rules of Procedure, and not based on literature, and literature should also help to keep the National Bank, which runs the wrong monetary policy, not to deal with such affairs, saving money for those who cannot pass the censorship in the ordinary process, but by providing it through the back of citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37673	The Prime Minister wants a word. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37674	I would say very briefly that all independent institutions are responding to the Assembly, so the government is responding to it, the National Bank and the State Auditor are responding to it, etc. The fact that there are no cross-response responsibilities, that the Government is accountable to the National Bank or to the National Bank auditor, is important to me because I actually have very little information about whether ZIN is doing good or bad, I don't even know his balance sheet at all. That's why I'm just afraid to comment on the question, because I'm not competent, I don't know. That is why I propose to Madam People's MP that, as representative of the Assembly, those questions that she had directed directly to the National Bank and asked them for an answer because I simply do not have the information or the capacity to interpret it. It's a good thing this issue is open now, given that it's 2009. I'm not going to tell you "stay on the topic", because I think it is, however, in some way, related to this topic. It's good because there's an auditor, so if they audit for 2009, then they'll consider what you said. But regardless, you can still contact the Bank directly for information. (Jorganka Tabakovic, from the place: I can't talk about whether I'm satisfied, because I got very few answers to what I wanted to ask. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37675	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vladimir Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37676	The Honorable President, the Honorable Representatives of the Government and the DRI, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I will begin by saying that the formation and work of the DRI during this period is a encouraging start, which will contribute to the public, above all, to the spending of state money and I think that this institution will only give its full contribution and importance in perspective. In this regard, I hope that both parliament and the government will support further institutional strengthening of the DRI, so that we will receive quality reports in the future. In any case, by analyzing reports that we've had a chance to see, we can come to a few conclusions. I would also like to ask questions from those conclusions. It is clear that neither the government institutions nor those subject to control nor the DRI side had sufficient capacity nor clearly defined procedures or other elements to allow an even more high quality report. In that sense, I wanted to ask the state auditor. Since I had the intention to ask a question relating to potential pressures, and you have already given the answer, my question is – when do you expect the DRI to reach its full capacity both in terms of human resources and in terms of resources and working conditions? What is necessary, or what are the assumptions that would happen? The second question is a kind of recommendation for both you and Mr. Prime Minister. I believe that in order to achieve more efficient reports and better work, it is necessary to recommend or perhaps order institutions that are subject to your work to introduce quality standards, namely international standards, which include a clear definition of all procedures and, in particular, the identification and division of the responsibilities of those subject to review, thus allowing the reports to essentially contain those key, essential failures and possible abuses and to be relieved of formal deficiencies, which are too much in this report. So these are the questions I had to ask you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37677	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Auditor.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37678	The State Audit Authority, in accordance with the law, its Rules of Procedure and the Act on the Internal Organisation and Systematization of Jobs and the Description of Jobs in the Jurisdiction of the Institution, has established six sectors. The first sector for the revision of financial reports of the final accounts of the Republic of Serbia and the budget funds, the second sector for the revision of the NBS financial reports in the work on the use of public funds and business with the state budget, is the third sector for the financial audit of social security funds, the fourth sector for the revision of local self-government financial reports, the fifth sector for the revision of the financial reports of public enterprises and is the sixth sector for the revision of the integrity of the business of the beneficiaries of the budget funds. The systematisation act, when we thought we would have full conditions, at the very beginning of work, provides that the audit staff should be represented with 85 auditors and that the rest of them would be adequate follow-up services by 129. However, such a plan has not been achieved for many reasons. We got a full space late, and after we got the space, we called a competition, which didn't work out completely. Only candidates present themselves at the unemployment office and do not have sufficient experience on these jobs, do not have the appropriate skills for which we have conducted the appropriate tests. There were two competitions. The first, which was carried out in 2008, was 624 applications for 26 jobs, of which we were able to receive only four authorised state auditors, one co-worker and one junior associate. We also tried during 2009, when we launched a competition involving 324 candidates, over 500 applications, where we have now made admission to the financial audit sector of the final account of only one state auditor, while in other sectors we have not been able to fill those jobs, as well as in the sector of the National Bank in the work that is conducting a review of the use of public funds. So we couldn't choose an expert enough frame to fill these sectors. We expect to do so by improving the material position, because again I insist on it, without audit staff, without authorised auditors and auditors, this audit and the institution itself cannot achieve its full capacity. More than 9,000 beneficiaries of the budget are in the DRI's jurisdiction. We need a large number of auditors, and I can pass on the experience from the environment, that other audit institutions, in Slovenia, Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, have gone the same way as Serbia's DRI. The institution's establishment could not be completed overnight. It takes at least three or four years to complete the establishment of the DRI in accordance with all those requirements that it had foreseen for the performance of the four basic functions of the audit, the revision of the financial reports, the audit of the compliance of the business, and what the Minister spoke of the review of the relevance, which we just wanted in 2012, as we planned with our strategic plan, to start that audit, which will show that the funds are being spent, i.e. should be spent in the most efficient, economical and most effective way.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37679	Mr. Ilichu, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37680	I'm happy with the answer. I want to repeat once again the readiness, first of all, of our parliamentary group, and hopefully the Government and Parliament, to provide all the material assumptions, especially when it comes to earning auditors, because it is quite clear that this is a trade job that is expensively paid on the market, and that is something that we all have to take care of. I wanted to ask another additional question. It refers to the completion of the process of defining internal audits in these institutions, this need and the need for additional education, training of employees and in the DRI, as well as in the ranks of all ministries and government, because it is clear that, if we want to have professional institutions, people must have a permanent education. I repeat, only for reasons that these reports would essentially reduce to key failures, those that have elements of abuse, without dealing with formal shortcomings, which the public, unfortunately, comment most on and talk about.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37681	Mr. Auditor, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37682	This is also a well-placed question, Mr. Ilic. The legal obligation of the DRI is certainly also to carry out the education of its staff and the licensing of its authorised auditors. We are under obligation, in accordance with the law, to bring in the program of our education staff and we do so. I hope that by June 30th this year we will have our own education programme and the programme of licensing of state auditors. In accordance with the law, it is an obligation for our authorised auditors, state auditors and members of the Council to pass the audit work exam. After the programme has been adopted, the exam should be passed within 18 months. Otherwise, civil servants and other DRI employees will lose their right to work. In this regard, we have taken all measures and are already in the final stage of defining the DRI education programme. What we have seen through the response report, assessing the response report of many ministries that have seen and identified the weakness of functioning of internal controls and internal audits, we have received a feedback report that all ministries are working to the greatest extent to introduce internal control and internal audit. The obligation and the Ministry of Finance and other ministries is, of course, that the control in some way be brought to life. I hope that during this revision we will also look at the degree of internal control and internal audit, which will help us to work because we can rely on a number of conclusions made by the internal auditor.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37683	Thank you. Madam Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37684	Let me add on your question regarding the establishment of financial control and internal audit by the ministries. It is also this report that the DRI, in practice, was an incentive that all ministries, meaning direct and indirect budget users when it comes to financial management and control, and when it comes to internal audit, direct budget users begin to set up this control function. I really hope that we will end this year with the establishment of both financial controls and internal audits in the ministries. I note that within the framework of the Ministry of Finance, we have formed this central harmonized unit with the task of conducting internal audits according to the plan brought by the finance minister, so ex post by budget users.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37685	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37686	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what we are talking about today is the confirmation of the fact that, despite the constant emphasis of transparency in the exercise of power, there is much that is wrong in the state of Serbia. First, I don't think it's right that just before Finance Minister Diana Dragutinovic said she would fight to make the next report better. I think it's much more correct that someone should be held accountable because this first report is who it is. The very fact that here today, except for this one, if I may say so, critical support or whatever I call it, MPs of the ruling coalition, may not be discussing the concrete measures that should be taken in connection with this report, shows, even this small part covered by the DRI report, that Serbia still has no determination to go more seriously in the fight against corruption. Because this is the only word I can call all these observed irregularities in the DRI report. It is particularly interesting that this chapter, which has already been discussed, of illegal budget loans, of illegal tasks to cover the budget deficit. And, since we had just heard from the finance minister, although quite unconvinced, that it is now finally known where the 380 million ended, as much as it appears as a deficit, related to donations, might well be an explanation when it comes to bail-based payments, because it is clear that the state was also quite irresponsible. According to data, four guarantees totalling 182m euros were issued in 2008, some more than four and a half billion dinars were paid out of the budget based on guarantees issued. However, the audit found that the regression requests to direct debtors on loans, whose debt has been settled by the Republic, were not laid down, nor were the measures envisaged to collect those claims taken by law. So I'd like to get an explanation for this. And for Mr. Sretenovic, one particular question – did one of the representatives of the ruling coalition ask you, as chief auditor, what do you need in 2009 to carry out an audit in a significantly larger volume than it was in 2008?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37687	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Dragutinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37688	I don't know what was unconvincing in the explanation that there are different databases that refer to donations. I think I've made myself clear, and that's easy to verify, and that's why I'm asking you to come to the Ministry of Finance and look at the donation database, where you'll see every single donation, her value, and who she's gone to. So in the 2000-2008 period more than three billion euros, I said they weren't all in money, they were in nature, they weren't all for the state, for the budget, direct and indirect budget users, they were for different NGOs, for local levels, etc. In the Ministry of Finance, there is a precise record and registration of all donations. All donors, and there are thirty bilateral or multilateral ones, also have access to that database and none of the donors, from 2000 to today, have complained about the purposeless use of donations or that some donations have "extorted". So there's a precise record at the finance ministry. It's a completely different matter of what he's doing and how the National Bank records. It records the foreign exchange inflow, so the money that comes, and doesn't take into account donations in nature. It records only those donations that practically come into the account of the central bank, and there are donations that don't come at the central bank's expense, but at the central bank's accounts. So it's true they don't agree, but it's about different sets. What has come to the Republic of Serbia from 2000 to 2008, literally everything is in that database. Please come and take a look. As for the guarantee, or if the finance ministry hadn't taken those measures under the law, I'd say the next thing. When guarantees were issued, or when the state paid instead of the public enterprise that the loan took... A large number of public enterprises were in charge and in the process, the Republic of Serbia had a guarantee. In only two cases in 2008, and in one case only, the state pays payments on behalf of the guarantee, which is JP Railways. In 2008, except for JP Railways, the state also paid for JP Roads. I hope you remember the financial situation of JP Roads and what we had to do for JP Roads in 2008, as a government, for everything that was done in the period until 2008. So in 2008, JP Roads and JP Railways couldn't repay their loans. What if the state, which guarantees new loans to JP Roads, had now taken action and shut down these public enterprises? In 2009 and 2010, the state paid only for JP Railways and it is indeed a subsidy.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37689	Mr. Auditor, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37690	In particular, I can answer your question that, after considering all the circumstances in the DRI, because of the lack of proper audit staff, we have submitted a request to the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to amend the relevant regulations governing the material situation of DRI employees. The conclusion of the Finance Committee was, considering our report on the Committee, that the DRI provided all the necessary and necessary working conditions, starting with finding a fully adequate business space, a larger business space, adequate equipment and increasing the earnings of DRI employees. This was a unique position of the Finance Committee, as all members of the Committee agreed to this finding, but until today we did not get feedback when it would come to congregation procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37691	The word is made by the People's MP Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37692	Given that the previous time, when it was a similar topic on the agenda, the Prime Minister declared the city's prime minister incompetent for certain matters, I would take advantage of this opportunity and the presence of Mr. Sretenovic and Minister Dragutinovic to insist on the answer to the question we first asked at the end of 2008, and as regards the return of non-intentional funds to the Belgrade city's budget, according to the budget inspection of the finance ministry. There is also a record number 401-00-00591/03 of July 9th. It is likely public knowledge that the city of Belgrade, with its budget of around 80 billion dinars, is in such a situation that, without strict control, various abuses are possible. As for the external revision of local self-government, I find it really absurd to carry out it first in some smaller environments, besides the fact that there is a capital with such a budget. So, I will also introduce you to the fact that the City Administration of Belgrade did not report by 12 January 2009 to the Budgetary Inspection and Audit Sector of the Ministry of Finance that it had implemented the measures imposed by the minutes, both this and the appropriate solutions for the return of funds to the city's budget by five basiss, totalling nearly 147 million dinars, which was confirmed and compensated by the budget inspector, carried out on 12 January 2009. Following the control of the use of the city's budget for the period 2001-2002, the number has been made up, since 10 May 2004, of which six grounds were imposed on the return of funds to the city's budget, totalling 147,568,790 dinars. Since the town of Belgrade, the City Administration, did not report that it had acted according to the minutes, the Financial Ministry's budget inspection and audit sector also ordered the solution to the number. Following a complaint made to that solution, the finance minister made a new decision in the second instance, confirming a first-degree solution of five of the six bases, totaling 146,568,790,27 dinars. At the resolution of the finance minister, the city of Belgrade, the City Administration, filed a lawsuit with the Supreme Court of Serbia, which by the verdict number U5536/04, since 13 July 2006, was rejected as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37693	Mr. President has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37694	I just wanted to ask Ambassador Jeremic to comply with his party colleague's request to stick to the agenda, which means in 2008. In that context, I think that this issue not only applies not only to the Republic budget, but also to a period that is not the subject of today's debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37695	Thank you. National MP Branka Ljiljak has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37696	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Prime Minister, members of the Ministry, respected members of the DRI, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think today we have a unique opportunity and an honor to discuss for the first time the report of a regulatory body at the level of so-called. plenary sessions. I think we should all be proud that we made it within this government to make both the DRI report and the 2008 final account, which we need to discuss. This is an opportunity to show citizens that we want all the strength to focus on solving problems that have accumulated for years. I would just like to remind myself that these sessions need to discuss the final account (this time for 2008), that the DRI report is only an integral part of the final account and that not all attention should be directed to the report, which is very important, especially as it was made up for the first time. The Finance Committee discussed it at its December session on the DRI report and was given support to the institution to continue as it began. So, with all the problems, we're gonna give them support and help them as much as we can. I'd like to ask both the DRI and the finance minister this opportunity. At first, when the report came out, with all these discussions that I wouldn't like to repeat, he had a little disagreement, and it was about course differences. Now I would like to ask – were there appropriate mechanisms for those curricula to be matched when the 2009 final account was made, so that the same problem would not happen again? Because I think this is our first time and we can make some mistakes together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37697	Thank you. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37698	You know, mistakes are taught. So, the finance ministry did withdraw the final account and that was based on the discussion it had with the Supreme Auditing Institution, so we respected those arguments. I'm saying, I'm not someone who understands accounting, but I understand what it means to literally interpret the cash concept, and what it means to have cash equivalents. Course differences are cash equivalents, so they belong to this cash concept and, given that, I guess that's now agreed between my service and the DRI, so the error won't happen again.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37699	Thank you. Mrs. Ljiljak, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37700	I also have a question for the DRI. Namely, these material errors have come out, which will be processed further in accordance with the law. I'm only interested in – have the responsible persons of their mistakes found any material benefits? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37701	Thank you. Here you go. The auditor has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37702	In accordance with the DRI Act, the obligation of the Institution is to submit appropriate measures in each procedure, starting with criminal and other applications from the jurisdiction of the Institution. When we were doing the review, we wanted to look at, through the objections to the draft and the proposal for a report, some objections in the task of determining responsibility. When we realized that there were no elements to accept such objections, we issued a final report, and after considering and making certain analyses from the report and, in particular, considering the assessment of the response reports, we submitted 19 infringements, in accordance with the law. The total amount of these misdemeanor reports is somewhere, according to our analysis, over 141 billion dinars. As the prime minister also said, 70% refers to the violation of the Budgetary System Law, while 24.80% refers to non-compliance with the Public Debt Act. From the reports we filed, we didn't see that there were any abuses typical of putting up with the appropriate measures that would take criminal responsibility. We didn't find such elements in those reports, so we couldn't even see, or we didn't find that one of the ministers obtained or otherwise provided himself with property benefits. If there were such elements, we would have filed a criminal report immediately.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37703	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Minister. Minister Obradovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37704	I'm going to take this opportunity and ask a question to show what it looks like in practice. I'm asking you to see what the content looks like in practice, I'm not saying criminal charges, I'm going to be familiar with that, but since I know what it is, what it looks like. The example works - spending the funds of the Ministry of Education, the responsible person is the minister, the exact number of the account is undermined, the exact date (30.9.2018, etc.) is known.), there is a report that the day of that and that, the amount paid, who is the supplier, where it was done and the signature. This file that's in my possession tells me who's the signator of those accounts. The minister is missing, but the minister is a responsible person and the minister has therefore received a misappropriation. Here, I've got all this paperwork right here. Of course, I'm gonna deliver this to the judge for violations and I'm gonna respect his decision whatever it is, but I thank you for this question because the public needs to know what it looks like on the other side... (Zoran Krasic, from the scene: only 5% of your budget. What, Zoran?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37705	Please, Mr. Krassic, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37706	We know exactly who the signatories are, but in our opinion, there is a legal basis. In our opinion, but the judge will appreciate whether it's true or not. This is a decision taken pursuant to Article 23(2). The State Administration Act. The contents of that decision will also be presented to the court. All of this has been recorded, but the responsible person for all of this is the minister, and therefore the minister has received a mistrial and will therefore appear before the criminal judge and therefore the minister will accept a decision whatever it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37707	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mrs. Vesna Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37708	Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think today we are talking about a very serious issue and there is a key question about whether Serbia has a serious state or not. If we're talking about the DRI report, it's about that. We received a report, which I believe we can treat as a general trial, because you couldn't express your full opinion of the situation as to how citizens' funds are being spent in this country, but only 27% of them have been processed and focused mainly on budget implementation, and other areas, which are also very important, in which the situation may be even more catastrophic than in this sphere, we couldn't see. You have abstained, I want to point out, that you give your opinion and the first thing that is seen in this report of yours is for you to say that you have not given your opinion. So we still don't have that opinion. Neither by volume nor by resources, nor by capacity could you give a full opinion on the spending of citizens' resources. I ask the first question – when will you be able to give it? Because, Mr. Sretenovic, I know history was next. This assembly passed the DRI Act in 2005. It took two years to choose the DRI Council and you were elected. We met in the elevator, and I'm asking you, Mr. State Auditor, what are you doing? You're saying you're not doing anything. I'm asking you how you don't do anything when we choose you, and you say you don't have any rooms. You haven't had a room in two years, you don't have auditors for two years, you don't have auditors now, you don't have well-paid auditors to do a job. I am now asking Mrs Dragutinović, who boasts that she has been kinder to you (no one has been more gracious) – how is it that, as you said, after three or four years (and since 2005, when taken, it is now more than four years) we cannot get a relevant DRI that can give us a full report? Are we the Zulu tribe, so we don't even have external control, and as we can see, according to your report, we don't even have internal control? The first question is – how is it possible that there is no resources for DRI? Oh, we saw and listened to steam. They say it's the press' fault they're turning the team into kebabs. Why don't they recalculate, Mrs. Dragutinovic? If you don't have the resources, as you just said, for the audit board, how you have the money to throw on other things, presentations, fees, public procurement, etc.? That's the first question, and then I'll go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37709	Time. Thank you. Who wants to answer? Here you go, Mr. Sretenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37710	After setting up a full capacity DRI, we will be in a situation not only to review financial reports, whether they are objectively and truthfully drawn up, but also to give an assessment of the relevance of the business of the beneficiaries of the budget. The establishment of the institution itself is a very complex process. As you yourself have stated, we have not had the proper opportunities, which have followed us over these two years, from space and equipment, to recruiting the first audit staff. This year we also have a final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2009 budget. The DRI, with its personnel now at its disposal, will be in a position to increase the coverage of all expenditure items in the final account of the Republic of Serbia's budget and we will give final opinion to the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2009 budget. I cannot say in advance what kind of opinion it would be, but what was a limiting circumstance for us to give an opinion during the 2008 final budget audit of the Republic of Serbia's 2008 budget is also the late draft Rules of Procedure of the DRI, which was adopted at the end of January 2009 in the Serbian Parliament. It was waiting for 13 months to pass and give consent by the Assembly to this act, without which the DRI could not proceed with the audit. When the Assembly agreed, the act was published in the "Official Messenger" on 14 February 2009, and indirect budget users are already delivering their final accounts at the end of February. So we didn't even have time to look at all the reports to prepare to do a thorough review with four auditors. And what we did, we did, practically, with great effort and advocating our state auditors. Over 7,800 hours have been carried out to review the documentation. Over 100,000 documents were reviewed at the Treasury Office. It was both Saturday and Sunday, because we wanted to deliver this first report to Serbia, as a milestone in the development of democracy and public finances. The report is precisely the result of a great effort and advocating our state auditors, even the sector manager who ran the tests on the relevant documentation in the Treasury. Of course, it is necessary to improve the material position. I have to say again, I've done it several times already, no personnel, no audits. We have also accepted appropriate obligations from international organisations, primarily the EU and the World Bank, to make a greater coverage of the audit this year, a greater number of users, and not only users, but also a better audit, as the World Bank is also interested in reviewing public enterprises and how the state of Serbia receives loans. This is not just a DRI job, this is the job of all of us who need to contribute to the improvement and discipline in the spending of budget funds, or the funds of taxpayers. The DRI is in a chain with other independent institutions in the fight against corruption, and we will quickly, during this year or next, come up with data suggesting corrupt activity in certain segments of budget spending.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37711	Thank you. Mrs. Pesic, do you have any questions? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37712	I really must say, let all citizens hear that since 2005, since the law was passed, we have only four auditors. Dear gentlemen, it's still a disaster. When I said disaster, you're a little flat with your shoulders, but it is a disaster. This is an interpretation that there is no desire for those who have public functions to be controlled at all. It is easy to be Prime Minister, Minister, MP or to be in any public office if there is no external control. And we don't even have internal control, as we've seen. The departments neither give financial reports nor do they do that. What kind of state is that? Is this a serious state if now, after so many years, we have four auditors working on Saturdays and Sundays who faint to give us this report? This country has no capacity to increase these resources and make us a decent state. So I really have to say, when I said this was a disaster -- it was a disaster. Now I want to ask a direct question that I think is very important, which is mentioned in this report, which is the accounting system. I have to ask that question because so far no one has asked it. You see, you have processed the accounting system, which consists of it, but now we see that, when it comes to the accounting system at the Ministry of Finance, at the Treasury Office, it is determined: the accounting system is based on the records held by the Ministry of Finance, at the Treasury Office, which is run by the beneficiary of the budget funds and reports provided by the Treasury Administration and other users. See what the first conclusion is – the main book of the Treasury is not kept in accordance with Article 2. Budgetary system law. The next conclusion (that I don't read here, that I don't hold back, because there's no time) is also not in accordance with a member of the law. Then, in your ministry, when it comes to the Treasury Administration, you should have created some department for internal financial control standards and quality assurance of budget implementation. The next conclusion says you didn't do any of that. So that's not what it is. Therefore, what falls under internal control, I have now set as an example of the Treasury Administration, and also, when it comes to accounting in the budget system, you do not stick to the law there. There's a system problem here. Not only do we not have a system to control the spending of public funds when it comes to external control, but we have no internal control. We can see that there's no respect for the accounting system and that you don't follow the law. You know what, can we answer every question that Serbia is an embryo? Every speaker here from the ruling coalition has explained to us that this is the beginning. Well, we're an embryo, and we want to be leaders in the region. Whenever a specific question arises, it turns out that we're only in the embryo and beyond the embryos we haven't evolved. And the other is an excuse. We have inherited it. From whom did you inherit, Mrs Dragutinovic? They're all ministers today. How come they're ministers? Before you, the finance ministers were Mr Cvetkovic, now Prime Minister, Mr Dinkic and Mr Djelic. What are the ministers now if they haven't set up a good system and if you have to say I inherited it? I trust you completely, but three minutes. ) they remain ministers and continue to spend uncontrollably, as I have shown.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37713	Does anyone want to give an answer? Yeah. ) The word has Ministerial Diana Dragutinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37714	I've already answered this question, but I don't mind repeating some things. I have to remind you that we didn't have a vault. We had a finance minister, but we didn't have a vault. The vault is something some countries had, for example. In 1757, like Great Britain, but Serbia had no vault. The vault in Serbia is in formation. You know what a vault is? The vault supports the information system. When I said I inherited it, the information system was obtained from an EU donation. So you're not running the main book on foot. There's no woman who types in numbers, you understand? It's an information system consisting of three modules: budget implementation, debt management... So that's the information system. I got, or we, as a country, got, we didn't pay for it, an information system that doesn't support all budget users, but only direct ones, and then in the main book, it's really all going right, but only for direct budget users. If I had been able to influence, like I didn't, maybe I would have chosen another system and asked for another donation, but it's a set of circumstances. We learn to have a vault and time will pass until we get a vault in that real functional form. A later mind is smart, but it doesn't help much. We could choose between two systems – the system to pay everything from one place and the system not to pay everything from one place. We chose the system not to pay everything from one place. What could possibly be the reason? I've been thinking. Because we have a large number of budget users. So we have a large number of not only direct ones, but also a large number of indirect budget users, from six to nine thousand. It's very difficult to make payments from one place when you have so many budget users. The main book supports direct budget users, but this does not mean that indirect budget users are not kept records. The creation of the vault is a process and it will take at least three to four years. I would be most fortunate to experience that there are no accounts of payment users, but that all budget users should be covered by the budget implementation system. But it's a process.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37715	Anyone else want to give an answer? No, I don't. ) The word has a folk MP Dragan Stevanović, three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37716	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Sretenovic, for the SRS, this is a farce today. This is a farce because... Here, I'm asking you the first question. See, they earn -- oh! I ask you – do you really think that everything you heard today from the majority representatives is a support to the State Auditing Institution? After this session will it be easier for you to work and function? Will the DRI have organisational, financial, technical and all other opportunities to carry out its work in an adequate manner, in the way that EU standards provide for, in which we are guided by those who earn when I say this is a farce? Here, these are the first three questions you have to, according to the Rules of Procedure, you or the representatives of the Government, to give us an answer. They say, "Did anyone put pressure on you?" Why do you need pressure when they've done everything so you don't function as an institution? But when we get to Parliament and what you sent us, 27% of the budget covered (right? So how did you, as they say here, target and call on what it says, then the prime minister here invites us to stick to the agenda and say, "What if we had controlled in the '90s, when the radicals were in government?" Who told him not to control it? What did DRI not do in 2001, 2002, 2003, 2005, 2007, 2008 but wait 10 years? He is now laughing, Mr. Prime Minister, but knows Mr. Prime Minister that this would lead to an obligation to control both 2001 and 2002 and 2005 and 2008. But you know how they are, in principle, and where are the answers why they ran from control? For example, one of Mr Cvetkovic's fellow democratic implementations said of the period during which privatisations were conducted, in 2005 and 2006, with the assessment of privatisation – the biggest problem of the current privatisations in Serbia is the big theft of social capital. So these are all things that have no points of contact with the SRS, and here, permanently, they avoid answers to all that MPs state as findings of the State Auditing Institution. And my colleague Vladan Jeremic asked you nicely, both you and the representatives of the government, if someone has asked you a specific question, Mr Sretenovic, what this legislative body that has a control function should do for you, so that in 2009, let's not control 80%, which is the standard, but 50% of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the spending of public, or budget money, as you did for 2008.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37717	Does anyone want to give an answer? Yeah. ) The word is Radoslav Sretenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37718	I believe that today's MPs at this session have shown a very high degree of interest and, of course, knowledge of this issue. But as you know, it is a very complex and responsible job, not only for DRI, but for everyone in the state of Serbia. I certainly express my satisfaction after these discussions and answers to questions, and I hope that everything that is here today will change, or that after our first review, everything will not be the same as it was. I hope and believe that we have support, which is also expressed by the Committee on Finance of the Republic of Serbia, when it adopted our initiative to improve all the material conditions and positions of employees, from security of space and equipment, to earning employees in the DRI. Honestly, I hope we have better conditions after this session, and I expect our final law to be found in the assembly procedure during the first session. Because if that is not the case, then we at the institution are asking the question of how we will carry out a review of public enterprises, because we have taken the obligation of the European Commission to do a review of public enterprises, without which Serbia has no assistance of around 280m euros from certain EU funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37719	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word is made by Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37720	I'd like to make it very brief, just to make it clear who said what. First of all, although I think it is good to stick to the agenda, I did not insist, but I supported a member of your parliamentary group who insisted on it and said – yes, I agree and should do so. Secondly, about your finding of escape from control, it's very interesting how it's derived from premise or basic attitudes. So whoever insisted and provided for the first revision, it's the one who's running from control, and the one whose time was no revision, or the idea of it being realized, that's the one who wants control. I must say, you haven't convinced me, and that when we draw conclusions, I will not serve this analogy.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37721	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Dragan Stevanovic has three minutes for two sub-questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37722	Mr. Cvetkovic, for not being prepared for control, we paid in 2000 in the elections, and you received the election will of the citizens because you promised to introduce order. Not that you haven't introduced order, but you've created twice as much chaos. That's one thing. Mr. Sretenovic, everything will come to mind, unfortunately, of your hopes. And when we talk about support, here the representatives of the majority should ask themselves what you need to do to change this House Public Procurement Act, which goes back a year and isn't good. You asked for it to change, to be three years old. Am I wrong or not? You asked for a change in the law that regulates the work of your institution, your independence and your funding. We haven't heard a word about it here today. Did Mr Cvetkovic tell you anything about this, that on behalf of the Government, he would give these proposals to the Assembly, so that we could adopt them by an urgent procedure? No, we're passing the Beer Act, because it's an EU standard. We're going to the EU, and we don't have a vault. We submitted the application. We live in a state of senselessness and nonsensus. Unfortunately, that's the way it is. They can avoid the story as much as they want and win, but it's our cruel reality. They have no courage to say – Mr. Cvetkovic, provide 50 million. It just takes you so long on the annual level to work. But do you know what you're forced to do, which we don't welcome anyway? To say from the DRI -- well, you know, this year we're not going to round up our body organisationally, so the state is going to save 25 million. If each of the ministers in Mr Cvetkovic's government knew that you were standing over his head and behind his neck, there would be funds in this country not for one, but for five state institutions. If the budget were planned and controlled on a regular basis, half of this country's deficits would, we were convinced, be cut off, or cut off. My question is, when are you going to be able to enter the public enterprises at a local level, based on this relationship of the majority who throws, to you as a DRI? Another question – Mr Cvetkovic, which ministry and state inspection is responsible for controlling the price of municipal services at local level? When will you get the strength to deal with these problems? Because, you know, the government's budget deficit is not only a deficit in the republic's budget, but also the budgets of local self-government and the budgets of these public enterprises where you can imagine what's going on. That's what's holding us back. No one here deals with criticism. No one here does anything nonsense. The responsibility of those who are obliged to impose and security on us on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37723	Who wants to give an answer? Are there any reports? Yeah. ) Radoslav Sretenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37724	Mr. Stevanovic, following the establishment of the Public Enterprises and Local Self-Government Financial Reports Sector, will begin and review local self-government and public enterprises throughout Serbia, not only in Belgrade's territory. We have, in accordance with the law, opportunities to organize our own organisational units in large centres. We plan to have a centre in Nis and Novi Sad since 1 January 2011, because there are a large number of public enterprises and local self-government in these territories and centres. At which point the establishment of this sector will happen, it is no longer up to us and is not in our power, because it depends on the procedure for amending the DRI Act to improve our conditions, above all on the material position of auditors, so that they can do their part of the job.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37725	The word is made by Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37726	You specifically asked me who was in charge of controlling the prices of products and services of public enterprises at the local level. The question is technically, but I will try to answer based on the knowledge I have from the time I was in the Ministry of Finance. Prior to the adoption of the budget, as a kind of plan base, a memorandum is being made, and in that memorandum the basic macroeconomic movements, i.e. projections, etc. are being considered. Among other things, instructions are given to public companies at all levels so that the prices of their services should move. So far, it has been common for these prices to be indexed with inflation provided for in the budget and then for each public enterprise to read the part relating to them and, in accordance with it, form a financial plan for next year. These financial plans are then reviewed by the finance ministry, where there is a special sector dealing with public enterprises, so that, in particular, whoever controls the finance ministry sector that sees the consistency of financial plans with the memorandum. Price control is a painful issue in the market economy and, looking at the long term, the country should basically withdraw from the segment. However, this approach, which I have explained to you, which may generally seem to be good, is causing some problems. I know that there have been problems especially in years when energy prices have increased enormously, so the correction of the price that would go beyond inflation, with energy prices going up enormously and having disproportionately high participation in the costs of individual services, threatened to cause collapse, and this particularly concerned central heating and urban transport systems, where energy costs have huge participation. In a technical sense, I gave you an answer to what it's like. If the finance minister thinks something's improved in the meantime, let him add it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37727	Anyone else want to answer that? No, I don't. ) In that case, the word has a national emissary of Jelena Trivan. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37728	Dearly beloved, let me express my satisfaction that today we have the opportunity to see the auditor in our Parliament and talk to him, because today's debate shows that the way to this was not easy at all. In this sense, in today's situation, the issues raised are quite surreal, because those who adopted the DRI Act in 2005 and who did not foresee at all the possibility of the state auditor presenting their report in parliament today asking questions why we are talking about it this way, and we have, again, neither guilty nor due, had to find a cumbersome way for the public to be familiar with the State Auditor's report at all and that today we are talking about it. Also today, they complain a lot, defend the auditors and worry about his material position, those who did not want to choose him for two years after the law was passed, and most of all, I remind the SRS of the talks we had here in the selection of auditors, who said it was inflation of the institutions, that it was a simple nonsense and that the auditor was not serving anything. He who doesn't believe, let him look at the stenograms. Nevertheless, we have shown that we are right to insist that we have to have DRI and that all this is beneficial for Serbia and the citizens, who are now finally having insight into the financial means and the way they are at their disposal. What is quite amazing to me are many of the reports in the auditors' report showing that the situation in Serbia has been abandoned for years on various issues - property, property, finance and the like, and one allegation that the Property Directorate does not have a full record of the state of state of property. In that sense, I ask a question for Prime Minister Cvetkovic – how is it possible that the Republic of Serbia does not have a list of its assets, that we do not know what we have and what is in our possession? How is it possible only last year, on your initiative, we get a list of what's owned by Dipos and we find out about the amazing contracts under which state property is rented? Now, after a year, is the situation a little better? Do you make a list of public enterprises' assets? I believe it's something of an interest to the citizens. Can you get us to know how that's possible, who's to blame, and have you done anything about it?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37729	The word is made by Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37730	Dear People's MPs, it's very difficult to answer how it's possible, but it's an actual state of mind. Simplely, the Property Directorate doesn't have a list of assets and I think there are two reasons why. One is probably an organisational one, perhaps a problem with the personnel or the problem of one general level and the situation that has been in different our organs. Now, we're saying that this is the first revision, a few years ago it was the first law on public procurement, etc. So these are the reforms that are now being implemented and, of course, that was, among other things, the view of the whole property thing. The second reason is objective and it was created as a result of the adoption of the Law on Assets of the Republic of the 1990s, which, in fact, said that the property of public enterprises does not belong to public enterprises, but to the Republic, which would consistently mean that now that list would have to cover not only that property that we see as such, and it makes sense for us to say that this building is part of the property of the Republic, but it probably doesn't make sense for us that the buffer on the surface copy of "Colubara" is also Republic, not that it belongs to the company "Colubara". Unfortunately, the law was passed in the '90s. For what reason, I don't want to comment. Then the Property Directorate, probably realizing that it couldn't be her buffer, didn't even make a list of that property. Although there were legal deadlines, the list was never made, but the property remained in the company balance sheets. So we have two reasons, one is objective, the other is subjective. Of course, from what we did, immediately upon arrival, as you said, I gave the task of carrying out a list of assets and doing so a lot of work. I think I can say that we already have some things done and done, but it's the creation of one, essentially, serious database. As is usually necessary to fill these bases with some physical work, and then to have some kind of ease of use, therefore appropriate software, etc., and to do so. I'd just like to remind you, in the meantime, in the last five or six years, several large databases have been created, such as the APR database, then you have the Central Register database and there's still a series of these public databases. That's how the property database will be created. Compared to recording the property, we're also doing an overview of the purpose of its use, which is then even a little more complicated work, but it goes in parallel. You mentioned Dipos. This is specific, it refers to assets issued to diplomatic representations. But that's one small part, that might be hundreds of objects, but we have thousands of objects in the Property Directorate, whose list is ending. I have to say, when I mentioned some other countries that come from the same system as us, they also don't have those lists, which is a little relaxation. And they're working on it, and we're getting closer to it. I hope that the list, of course without these funds from public enterprises, will be quite quickly completed. It is already finished for individual groups, because it is particularly observed property in buildings, in land, but also, we have property in certain investments, whether it is actions in certain enterprises, I am talking about minority packages, but there are also shares that are also kind of assets.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37731	The national emissary of Jelena Trivan. You have three minutes, two questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37732	I only have one very specific question. You said it was a purpose analysis and that Dipos, which you mentioned, had already been made some kind of base, and in that sense we know what we have, so we can move on to an analysis of the purpose of the contract. The media showed up, I don't know how true it is, that it's not just property that's been leased and leased to diplomats, but it's been leased to some local party representatives, thanks to political lines, on much more favourable terms than foreign countries that used it for embassies and consulates. So, is there an analysis of these contracts being carried out and can you say that at this point you have some result and that the state of Serbia better manages its assets in at least one segment?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37733	Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37734	There was an analysis, and I had a chance to see those papers. Sam Dipos made a relatively detailed report, which can be seen, is no problem at all, but I would try to say what the dubious results of that report are. First, the report shows that certain properties are rented at prices below market prices, based on an assessment of how much market prices could be today. One group was then formed to renegotiate prices, i.e. an offer to change contracts and to enter these new prices. What's there now in a legal sense limiting the factor, is the fact that some fixed-term contracts that you can't change, so if someone signed it on a fixed four- or five-year period, then you have to wait for the deadline to expire, to create conditions. Thus, in accordance with the texts of the specific contracts, they shall go and make changes. I can't remember the exact number, I think about two million euros is the difference that should be gained as a plus if this job is done. On the other hand, the truth is that real estate has been issued not only to diplomatic representations, but also to some individuals, but I wouldn't talk about it. As for the price, it's kind of an internal relationship and you can't talk about it either. When I asked Dipos for concrete prices, they said they couldn't, without the other side's consent, say what it was about not being processed. But what I mean as a dubious thing to say about this analysis that I had the opportunity to see is that there was a drastic change in the financial position of Dipos compared to the previous period. In 2008, Dipos earned a profit of about 50 million dinars and paid it into the budget, and a year later that profit rose by more than four times. So, not 40% or 4%, but four times, and it was over 200 million in 2009. This is the result of these efforts made in that domain.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37735	The word is made by Minister Diana Dragutinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37736	It seems to me, on the basis of the questions and the prime minister's answers, that somewhere there is an impression that there is no record of the underlying assets. That's absolutely not true. The balance sheet exists, but at the level of the budget user, i.e. at the level of the beneficiaries of public funds. What doesn't exist is a centralized record. So we have a very difficult job ahead of us. For example, it took the UK ten years to make that centralized record. We had two ways to make it. One way is within the Treasury's information system, but I have already said that it has shortcomings because it supports only direct budget users. That's why we've defined ourselves for this other way, to build a database within the Property Directorate. I wanted to inform you that a World Bank donation has been received and that this donation will help build this institution, or a list of assets over a period of two years.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37737	The word has a folk letter from Lydia Dimitrijevic. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37738	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, almost four months after the report was delivered to the National Assembly, were waiting for the dust to settle. However, the way in which taxpayers' money is spent by government officials is always an ongoing topic and what Serbian citizens are very interested in. It is not good that today not all ministers and officials whose work has been controlled and whose work has identified irregularities. This session would only make sense with their presence. I don't think it tastes good to talk about someone who isn't here. But it's the ruling majority's decision, so as an opposition, we don't have another decision left. The question I ask the Prime Minister on behalf of the SRS is, in fact, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. Since there are no representatives of this ministry, and irregularities in budget spending have been recorded, I must refer this question to Mr. Prime Minister, because he is the person who is at the head of the government and who bears the greatest responsibility for its operation. We have already asked this question when discussing amendments and additions to the Financial Support Act for the family with children. The debate was attended by the Minister of Infrastructure Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic and, of course, he was not in a position to honor us with the answer, so I am now looking for an answer. Who are employers who unwarrantedly increase the salary of pregnant women employed in just four months preceding the month of maternity leave, who are affected by the right to earning a child's allowance during maternity leave, the absence from work, the care of the child and the absence from work for special care of the child? What I'm talking about is a reason for changing the law. Since this is written in the official document, I want to know where the employers have seen this phenomenon. They must have their name and last name and company. As a reason, it is said that there is an unwarranted outflow of funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget. It would be good for one of the experts in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to make an account, one comparison between the amount listed on this basis as an unwarranted outflow of funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget and the amount for which the same budget was damaged by those responsible in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy due to irregularities identified in their work and for which the state auditor has filed a misapplication against the responsible persons in this ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37739	Who wants to give an answer? Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37740	My answer will be relatively brief. As for the questions addressed to Minister Rasim Ljajic, related to his ministry and criminal charges, I have nothing to add. The applications were made, sent, known what they were for, so I don't know what I'd have to comment on further. If you think I'm going to comment on the outcomes, that, of course, I won't, because it's a matter of court, which I don't want to get involved in. Secondly, when it comes to these individuals with names and last names, of course, I don't know what those are, but I'll pass on your question. You wanted it to be passed on to Mrkonjic, so I'm going to do it, so he knows that you want to know the names and names of those people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37741	Do you want an additional question? Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37742	I thank Mr. Prime Minister, I'll just say that I didn't want this speech from Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic. The law on the agenda was to defend Mr Rasim Ljajic in the National Assembly. However, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic came instead, and therefore he was not in a position to answer us. I purposely referred the question because I wanted to tell you this time, as prime minister, that the way the government and the National Assembly function is not at a satisfactory level. Because when it comes to some law, it is not disputed that one of the ministers comes from another resort, but here's what happens, someone who is free that day, instead of the minister who needs to be there, and we can't get answers. That's why my question was about that. I'm going to ask Mrs. Finance another quick question. We had our chance in December, I think he was in the budget bill procedure for 2010 and we talked about the details of the State Auditor's report, when the Minister said that MPs shouldn't believe everything they read in the State Auditor's report because he did this report for the first time. My question is Mrs Dragutinović – are you still staying with your claim?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37743	The word is made by Minister Diana Dragutinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37744	It's about the context of a sentence. So the sentence wasn't exactly like that. What I said then, since you suspected everything, which was amazing to me, in every government action, in every government programme, in every government reform, means you doubted everything, you only blindly believed the DRI report, because you found arguments there that the government wasn't doing right. I said - the Imperial doesn't deny it, it's one thing, and somewhere I really think it's very hard to find, especially when it comes to economic matters, that we all have the same opinion about one thing. Besides, there's a lot of jokes about economists, etc. Now I can also say, and that's what the Supreme State Auditor heard today, when it comes to the Treasury and when it comes to internal loans, I really think, theoretically, that an internal loan can't be a public debt. But what the state auditor said at the time, there was a regulation, which brings the Ministry of Finance, and according to that regulation, an internal loan is not a public debt, but there is an obligation to return by December 31st. That's where he's absolutely right. What did the finance minister do? The finance minister changed that rule. So, an internal loan, theoretically observed, can't be a public debt. That's what I said today, and I assume you heard that.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37745	Before I give my word to Parliamentarian Milan Vukkovic, I would like to inform the National Assembly that you have received the resignation of Milan Djokic as a member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as well as a report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of this resignation, which has determined that by resigning the case referred to in Article 88(2) of the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88 and 3 of the same law, determines the termination of the term of office of this MP. Pursuant to Article 88(1), point (2) and Article 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of National MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the term of office has ceased, and before the time of his election, MP Milan Djokic, elected from the Electoral List for European Serbia – Boris Tadic, on the day of his resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, a vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. The word is made by MP Milan Vučković.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37746	Dear DRI representatives, Prime Minister and members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, I am pleased that we have had the opportunity to discuss in today's debate many of the doubts raised in public regarding the DRI report. The report, which we received at the end of last year, was used in public and abused in many ways. One of the things that was often going through the public, which I didn't find in the report, is that the money from the budget was purposelessly spent, that they went to tycoon firms and political parties through various channels and that the report shows. I did not find it in the report, and I would ask Mr. Sretenovic's state auditor to explain once again whether the revision was true that the funds from the ministries were sent to tycoon firms and political parties. Yes or no? Since that's what the public and me are interested in, as a MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37747	Here you go, Mr. Auditor.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37748	I thank Mr. Ambassador for this question. Looking at and analysing the report, as well as in the process of control and audit and looking at all the documents that we have come into the process of reviewing ourselves, we have not convinced ourselves that there have been unintentional spending of funds. All assets were already in certain appraisals. There have been transfers of funds to appropriate legal entities, under the contract to maintain certain services, which we have treated. About whether those legal faces are the firm, as you've now called them, I can't judge, nor can I say. These are the legal entities with which public authorities, i.e. certain ministries, have concluded contracts and, on the basis of some ministries, where we have seen irregularities, especially where public procurement procedures have not been carried out, where certain provisions of the Public Procurement Act have not been implemented, we have filed appropriate criminal charges and are now within the jurisdiction of the criminal court that these applications will be resolved. I would especially like to add the answer to your question, since you also asked about political parties, we also had no opportunity to make sure that the funds were transferred to political parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37749	Thank you. The word is by MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37750	We do not doubt Mr Sretenovic's good intentions at all, and we doubt even less that he is an expert in the job. However, from his presentation, especially from reading this 163 pages, we conclude that there have been some moments in this professional business that can be prescribed primarily by the influence of politics, not even ideologies. You said it was a turning point in the development of democracy, if I'm not mistaken. However, it cannot be a turning point unless the report fully covers everything that exists in the Serbian government. And you yourself say, on the other-third page, that's a partial report. Also, you're talking about the vault, which is more than important. That's where I agree with Mrs Dragutinovic. By the way, the turning point of democracy you're talking about can be complete or it's not, or that's the phrase. On the other hand, you are talking about the World Bank, the EU, that they are looking for some alleged fight against corruption, and here I agree with you that one of the basic purposes of this report is to fight corruption. But, please, it's impossible to fight corruption if you have a World Bank, which is looking towards the Institute of Roads 30 to 40 percent higher percentage of the value of the works in a bypass around Dimitrovgrad. That's what you should be doing, not stating in your report what kind of contract there was with some agency called "Click" or "Art Studio" from Zemun. It's peripheral stuff, you know? The basic type of corruption comes from the EU and precisely from these contracts and loans made by the World Bank and the IMF. In that sense, I'll give you another example. Boris Mijatovic, who is undoubtedly an expert (not close to us, as you know), claims that the future tender for the sale of Telecoma was set up precisely to reach the entire value of Telecom. This is the case of EU corruption, and you are engaged, if I am not mistaken, on only two sides, on the 161-163th page, in these EU donations. It's the center of corruption. We resent that and ask you why you didn't do this kind of research, but you do essentially peripheral things like the team, such as some domestic companies, and what's left of it is not a source of corruption to the extent that I've cited to you and what's happened before.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37751	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Sretenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37752	Mr. Mirovic, I want to answer all your questions. When I said the DRI report was a milestone on democracy, I thought, first of all, of public finances, because for the first time in Serbia's new history, a report by an independent institution, an independent body that should give an opinion on the financial statements of the final account of the Republic of Serbia's budget appears. What you mentioned, in part, is that when determining the entities of the audit, we took particular care of the procedures and standards of the audit when we determined which ministries would be covered by control, especially when we looked at the most risky areas in the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2008 budget, when we determined these risk areas, we had information from the final account in 2007, and we had expert consultants of the Office of the Chief Auditor of Norway and the training of our auditors, as determined by the criteria, how the entities for the revision and only the identification of risks and risk areas were determined. When it comes to the World Bank and the EU, it certainly is the fact that they are very interested in all our reports, because the World Bank gives certain loans to Serbia and in every way wants to see if we have controlled and audited the public enterprises where the loans are provided. What you mentioned about the detour of the road somewhere in Dimitrov City, as far as I can tell, we didn't have that part in mind, we didn't treat it, especially now, the Telecom tender. I can't know in advance if the tender was conducted, whether it was intended or not. What you mentioned was that in the report only on several sides, in the last part of the report, we talked about certain excerpts, they were very important to us at the time, because, after this report, we are sure that in those ministries they will never repeat their payment and question the responsibility of a person when it comes to paying on the basis of some reports or documentation. I hope that we will now find a basis with certain ministries, that all services and payments are made on the basis of full documentation of certain reports.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37753	Thank you. Mr. Mirovic, the supplemental question.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37754	I don't think we understand each other completely. I am now pleading that you are an independent institution and in the sense of any political pressure, but not only of the internal but also of the external ones. In that sense, you should adapt your work to the very conditions that are in our country. I'm sorry, but compared to Norway, aid from Norway can be somewhat useful, but it's a country that, according to UN data, has the greatest prosperity in the world. It's a country that has four million inhabitants and huge oil investment funds, and here you have a completely different situation. So I don't think that's very appropriate, in economic terms. On the other hand, you're talking about the World Bank, again I'm saying, you're idealizing this institution, and not just you, but the entire government and the prime minister, and I'm going to give you just a few statements and Mr. Simon Grey and the IMF representatives here, who are just insisting on privatising public enterprises at all costs. In that sense, I agree with Mrs Dragutinovic that the right term should be used and said'subsidy'. Why not give subsidies to public enterprises? That's where our people work. These aren't some people who are against the state. Public enterprises should be assisted and, of course, no profit-making companies such as Telecom Serbia should be sold. That was the meaning of all my questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37755	Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37756	I don't think it would be correct for it to remain irresponsible to your finding that major corruption is coming from Europe and that it's supposed to be great with us, but Europe is putting corruption on us. You even mentioned the World Bank there, even though I don't see what it has to do with Europe, as well as the IMF, but come on. I must, however, say, of course without the idealization of Europe, there is corruption there, but it is certainly not Europe that represents the channel for entering corruption in our country. When it comes to a tender that will be, as you say, staged, I've heard from the opposition that Telecom is already being sold, so I wonder what we're going to set up a tender if it's already gone, but I want to let you know that it's going to be a tender with an auction in the second part, where everyone will be able to see the competition, means by raising tables and hands, and it's hard for you to set up here now, unless you tie your hands to the body and it can't lift them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37757	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mrs. Gorica Mojovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37758	Madam President, the Honorable Prime Minister, gentlemen of the Ministers, the distinguished representatives of the DRI, I hope that Mr Sretenovic and his associates here today have been pleasant, because I do not believe that anyone has sat in these benches and received as much support and praise as has been expressed today at their expense. And I would join because I really believe that the first DRI report, but by making it, in some sense, is a historic moment for Serbia, not only from the point of view of public finances control, but also from the point of view of further democratisation of our republic. What also seems important to me, is that, apart from, of course, the findings contained in this report, it will also act preventively on all those who take care of the state money, because every ministry, every administration, every agency, will truly trust it, and in the future, it will have to make sure that next month, the next year, the state auditor will knock on their door. What I wanted to ask as a question of one part is already answered, and it concerns the criteria by which the ministries that were controlled for 2008. I'm a little confused by the answer, which says it's mostly the ministries whose participation in current expenditures is the largest in the budget, and then I don't quite understand how it was chosen, for example, by the Ministry of Science or Culture, and not by the Ministry of Capital Investment, but I can accept that the right of the DRI to choose the ministry by chance. I would add two sub-questions to this question, and as regards the criteria, methodologies, principles, call them whatever you want, by which the types of expenditure that are controlled by individual ministries are chosen. What's this about? In one number of ministries, public procurement was controlled, in the second team, in the third labour contract, in the fourth specialised service, etc. I would really like to get an explanation of what principle has been applied when this variety of kinds of expenditures have been controlled and, in terms of how, in principle, the subject matter of control has been chosen. What's this about? I'm going to give an example, and as far as the ministry is concerned, whose work may be best known to me, the Ministry of Culture. A single contract was controlled, amounting to two million for the Dadov Theatre, which the ministry gave at least three hundred million for theatres in 2008. No problems were found, no problems were in control of the contract, but I am interested – on what principles and criteria were selected and subject matter of control and type of expenditure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37759	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Auditor.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37760	I would like to thank the Members of Parliament for asking the question. I must tell you that in the process of selecting the beneficiaries of the appropriations which were subject to the revision of the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2008 budget, three basic criteria of the standards and procedures of the audit itself were used. We also took according to certain criteria... Now let me show you how much effort we've made just to get to these final account indicators. I just want to show you how big this is. So they're not randomly selected users who will be subject to review. For all users whose participation in current expenditure is at all in the expenditures of the budget itself and the final account is above 3%, it was one criterion, then one of the criteria for the participation of that user's expenditures in its expenditures and the third criterion that we used is an absolute amount greater than two million, and in particular we had knowledge and I don't think we were wrong about looking at the risk groups of expenditure in the very final account of the Republic of Serbia's budget and at these revised entities that we chose. First of all, we treated, we took an example of a free sample, but we said we would execute at the Republic of Serbia's Property Directorate how to charge, i.e. how to calculate salaries and overtime, and we came to the conclusion that all employees in the ministry, as it was written in the report, had overtime throughout the year. One of these criteria is that we also look at professional services, in particular administrative services, translation services, computer services, information services, other professional services, work contracts and other professional services, other general services, hygiene-technical protection, property, fuel expenditure, and we finally took to see how budget beneficiaries behave with regard to the use of means for representations of appropriate gifts. In particular, I must stress that we have also treated part of the specialized services. These are, above all, services at the Ministry of Science, which is why it was chosen, or at the Ministry of Health. We wanted to know that these specialized services in the implementation of the budget of the user himself, as well as cultural services, are particularly speaking about where and by the method of free sample we came to the conclusion that we were treating the financing contract of the Dedicated Court after the government's decision and came to the findings given in the report. In this regard, we gave the Ministry of Culture the order to return 20 million dinars to the budget because it did not respect the decision and conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but defined the funds only for maintenance, and we did not receive adequate reports from the succession court, or financial services, that these funds were spent on purpose. For a portion of the funds, especially since you asked and mentioned the Ministry of Culture, we will launch a contract cancellation procedure for the other ten million, which we will inform the defender of the Republic of Serbia. In addition to specialized services, in certain ministries we looked at both costs and expenditure relating to the purchase of certain equipment. These were the basic criteria which we managed in carrying out this audit and we felt that these were extremely risky areas in terms of expenditure items for certain beneficiaries of budgetary resources. No other ministries were found, which had less than 3.5% and less than two million. It was the only criterion we respected, in line with the standards of the audit itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37761	Thank you. The word is Mrs Gorica Mojovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37762	I had no intention, but since you've already mentioned the heritage court and since this is one of the more serious findings of your report, especially when it comes to the Ministry of Culture, as I recall, the report says that 20 million were first paid, and then, by November 2008, another 10 million. As far as the 20 million are concerned, I remember very well that they were foreseen by the 2008 Budget Law. The 20 million were located at 424 - specialized services. Although misdefined, as a protection of cultural heritage, the courts were not long ago, unfortunately declared cultural good, although they had earned it all before. But that's less important now. What I didn't find in your report, and what would really interest me, is who decided to sign a 10 million contract from position 424 under a special government act, given that it is in the ministry's possession of another 10 million in November? I have no doubt that the procedure was done properly, but I suppose it should either be written in the report or, if not, that 10 million decisions were to be taken by the government, if they were not already foreseen by the Budget Law, as foreseen by these 20. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37763	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37764	When asked who made the decision, there is a government decision, and there is a budget rebalance, which was implemented during that year, so that the funds are secured in the budget rebalance. There is a decision and the government's conclusion to make payments to these 10 million dinars, right from this appraisal that you've just mentioned 424.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37765	Mrs. Marina Toman has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37766	Thank you. Today's session is characterized by several absurdities, my colleagues have already spoken about it. The first is that the debate came only after four months. On the other hand, not only did the discussion come after so much time, but it came to the agenda at a very awkward time, when the government must answer many important issues related to the announcement of the sale of Telecom Serbia, the company which, for example, made the biggest profit in Serbia in 2008. It's as if the government, in this way, draws the public's attention from such a big one, we find very harmful, decisions to sell to Telecom. Mr. Sretenovicu, what are the reasons you're handling that you're still doing a job that obviously only gives partial results? You said there was no political pressure on your work. On the other hand, how do you keep saying in public that there are no conditions to carry out a more detailed, more comprehensive audit, and not just a 27% audit of budget users? I want to ask this question too. We still don't have a revision of the business of public enterprises. You claim there are no conditions. On the other hand, public enterprises, at least so publicised, have made about four billion euros in debt over the last nine years. Now you claim that the World Bank is interested in reviewing the companies mentioned. Does that mean, Mr. Sretenovic, that if the World Bank weren't interested in revising the business of public enterprises, it would be missing? Also, we could hear that the citizens of this year or maybe next year will learn more about corruption in certain segments. What did you want, Mr. Sretenovic, to say? Do we take this as an announcement of the disclosure of some reports that confirm it, or do you take a step forward and draw conclusions without an audit being carried out? If that's the case, you'll agree, it's a little unprofessional.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37767	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Auditor.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37768	Dear Members, I would like to answer all your questions. I would start by answering your question of political pressure on the DRI and declare that there were no such pressures during the revision itself. Being pressured by the World Bank or the EU, it is not pressure, it is their interest to give Serbia the right amount of credit and, as in many countries the report is transparent, so they and we are asking a certain report and, of course, they are asking whether we are going to audit some public enterprises. When it comes to the revision of public enterprises, I must remind you that all public undertakings are required, under the applicable Law on Auditing and Accounting, to be audited every year by an independent auditor, by, for the time being, commercial audits. We did not have the opportunity to revise any public enterprise for the reason that the DRI acts formed the sector, but there was no realisation or reception of personnel in the sector, so we could not carry out the audit. After the constitution of these and other sectors, we will start a full capacity audit so that we can report on the business of public enterprises. The number of public enterprises, the criterion, will be discussed by the DRI Council, which determines what number and which review will take place in public enterprises. That's true, of course, and for local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37769	Thank you. Mrs. Toman has an additional question.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37770	Mr. Sretenović, you didn't understand me, but since you've already opened that topic... I was saying it was a great absurd to start a review only when the World Bank showed interest. I wasn't talking about blackmail, and we could talk about blackmail, in terms of taking some loans under unfavourable conditions, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37771	I must remind you that there are 9,520 beneficiaries of the budget that are in the DRI's jurisdiction in Serbia. Do you think that with four authorised auditors, the DRI can look at all the beneficiaries of the budget, especially when it is a priority to the final account of the Republic of Serbia's budget? Of course he can't, and that's why the scope of that revision is the way we've given it. So we need a larger number of auditors to be able to perform a thorough review of all public enterprises. Of course, I am convinced that after this session we will be provided with all the necessary conditions for the operation of the DRI, starting with space, equipment, wages, staff and other necessary quality and comprehensive audit.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37772	Thank you. Prime Minister Cvetkovic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37773	Dear Madam People's Parliament, I take the opportunity to ask you and the other MPs who are here, to say that I agree with you when you say there are absurdities in this session, but I disagree with their identification. For me, the greatest absurdity is that one topic, which is of great interest and which has been particularly forced by the opposition, takes place in a session where, when you look at, of this half, there is almost no one in the hall except you five-six MPs, and I am very sorry. On the other hand, I think that, and despite this, today's debate was excellent, that questions were raised to the greatest extent within the agenda. There were a few replicas in terms of whether or not someone was holding up the agenda, but, looking at the whole and comparing to some other sessions, I think the session was great. In that sense, I would like to thank all the MPs who attended and contributed to the opening and public speaking of this issue, with the presence of all the actors, and the positions and oppositions of both the Government and the auditors. This, I think, was a real forum, where we could exchange opinions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-25-0.u37774	Gentlemen, the list of Members of Parliament who have been registered to ask parliamentary questions regarding the current topic has been exhausted. Before we finish today's work, allow me to thank Mirko Cvetkovic, Prime Minister Diana Dragutinović, Finance Minister Zarka Obradovic, Minister of Education and Mr Radoslav Sretenović and his team, President of the DRI Council and members of the DRI who participated with us today in the work. I hope we have received both the public and us, adequate answers to parliamentary questions regarding the current topic. Thank you.
