ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49426	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 8th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 53 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I'll count myself because my card's broken. He'll get me a spare card. I think we can figure out there's 84 of us. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 84 MPs are present in the hall, and there are conditions necessary for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: MP Momo Colakovic, MP Miroslav Markicevic. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that I, in addition to the representative of the promoter Snezana Malovic, invited the Minister of Justice to attend the meeting of Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Slobodan Boskovic, Assistant Minister of Justice Zlatko Petrovic, Head of Justice and Jovan Ćosic, Head of Legal Affairs at the Ministry of Justice. We continue to work and move on to a search in particular on the first points of the agenda: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Penalty of Prison for the Crimes of Organized Crime. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Dusan Maric, Petar Jojić, Zoran Krasic, Aleksandar Martinović, Milica Radović, Milos Aligrudić, Jovan Palalić, Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borisa Peljević, Mileta Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mico Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Colić and Dragan Šormaz. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. A group of 22 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49427	In light of the beginning of the debate on the set of judicial laws, I will say first and foremost that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Justice have, on an obvious example, passed all year long the laws that we are now correcting, and that even when we adopt it, we have called amendments, or interventions that we are making changes and additions, and the name of the law itself says that it is about correcting the obvious error. It's not about any kind of change, because it's actually harmonising the name of the administration with the name of a certain law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions. The law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions was passed in 2005 and the law that we are now amending was passed in 2009, so it is not about changing and supplementing, but about correcting the error, because the harmonisation with the law previously passed is already done in the making-up of the bill itself. This obvious error could be corrected by publishing the correction. There was no need for the National Assembly to deal with the consequences of someone’s ignorance or negligence for hours, so we suggest that the amendment be adopted and that this obvious error be removed by the publication of the correction of the law. I expect you, Mrs. Malovic, to determine the responsibility of the law writer and to punish them for unprofessional and unconscious work so that these cases do not repeat themselves. It was the attitude that we had as a representative group of SNS at the moment when it was thought and thought it would only be discussed about the law we're talking about right now. In fact, it was obvious that this law was only meant to be the basis for an unheard way of trying to violate the unity of the legal system, in fact, to impose new obligations on the Constitutional Court before the start of the debate on the budget, for which we had not 48 hours to submit amendments, in fact on the agenda. I really need to say a few words about that. All these proposed amendments and additions to judicial laws, which we are discussing through this amendment and through a set of these laws, cannot produce results, nor will the judiciary make fairer, nor more efficient, nor will it contribute to the fight against organised crime. To give just one example, will someone tell me that it is logical, reasonable, fair and normal for the reformed judiciary, as you call the lustration done, to be published in the paper the other day on the fact that according to a statement by the Higher Prosecutor's Office, they gave up the prosecution of the lack of Kolesar and Janjusevic and others in the process of the cement affair "Popovac"? Have we, by reforming the judiciary, this way of passing and applying law on the execution of sanctions for organised crime, this kind of statement that didn't get enough public importance, shown that we've changed anything in the judiciary? When no evidence was found for the prosecutor, illegally obtained funds, for days, we looked at copies of accounts, we listened to statements from parents, the banks that paid for it, those who participated in it, and when the way the fees were paid over the Shore accounts, the private accounts, were not sufficient evidence, what kind of justice are we talking about, what changes and additions of the law? Should I mention that someone probably arranged it, like the Bodrum affair, in which many who still participate in public life participated today and that only one participant, whom everyone would gladly forget, has been chosen as least significant in the party hierarchy and is blamed for it. As convicted, it's known to the public. Some have even made progress in the affair. That kind of behaviour of the prosecutor, which I find uncomfortable calling him state-owned, because the state cannot allow someone who owns property that has been reported in the authorities of the state and institutions, which has been proven to be the way the money has been bought, confirms an unwritten democratic rule, that if authorities or significant support the government, in the way possible, there is no responsibility for you, there is no court and there is no law by which you will answer, because always those who need to be prosecuted are "some of us". What objective judiciary can we talk about? Or do you think little evidence of what is happening in the judiciary is that Mr. Kolesar and Mr. Janusevic are being released from further prosecution. Should I remind you of the Sartid affair? The one called the Pelican affair, the Pelican file, in which the prosecution has been acting for six years? From the source, we have some reliable sources, too, we find that under political pressure from the DS summit, the prosecution is ready to try to give up further prosecution here, a long time ago, and to drop the long-written indictment because against the registered persons of the judges and persons who are very high-ranking, in who is the headquarters of this coalition in the DS. Some were in G17, no longer, but some are still members of those we can call our own. What did we get from this judicial reform? That, according to complaints from economic operators at the Economic Court of Appeals, the decision is at least 14 months to 20 months. That judges have 400 cases, that the Supreme Cassation Court's decision is waiting two years at a time. I ask – what is now more effective and just in terms of trial? We have a particular question, at a time when we are talking about a liberal market economy, about protecting action in something called privatised economy – what will the small shareholders in the court's decision-making dispute of the Shareholders' Assembly if the dispute lasts for two years, the appeal procedure for another year and a half, when in the meantime the owner can do whatever he wants, and most often do it to bring down society? Do you think, Mrs Malovic, that it's unrelated to what I'm talking about, the agenda of this session where five of these laws were found overnight, and withdrawn from the agenda of the Law on Payments, in which it was meant to resolve how someone who cheats on a company, issues bonds and powers to pay, or guarantees the purchase of goods by some bonds and issues authority, and then shuts down the company for 500 euros, and you here by the way you apply the laws and how you bring them, you say it's the fluid of a modern market economy? Start a company, trick someone, lock up a company, or go bankrupt, and you, APR, electronically, open up a new one and nothing. A law that would have had to do better is already in the process twice. Once by the NBS, twice by the Ministry of Finance, and then you take it off the agenda. What can one company essentially mean to a debt dispute, when it receives a decision after four years, when the first-degree procedure takes at least one year and a half to two, and then the appeal procedure is still so long, and during that time, the debtor is consciously working and removing the entire assets to the other persons, and then the prosecutor, as a trustee in the executive procedure, cannot collect his claim which has been found, confirmed and convicted? Or maybe you don't know that this is actually happening? It is for nothing, Mrs Malovic, to us citizens and business entities that you are a person of personal integrity and value. It's for nothing to us, if this reform of the judiciary is arranged like this, and you haven't even wondered much, that you don't have much influence, that the profession doesn't have much influence, that you have failed to train and know how to put above politics and above the pressure of individuals who are very close to the authorities or that authority and do so. I want to ask, what is behind one of these law on the prevention, that is, the execution of sanctions for organised crime that has really been achieved? What are the students of the Department of Money Laundering Prevention, where do I think 25 people work? What are the results of those biggest consumers in the budget that we are going to talk about when we finish this set of laws – security agencies, military, regular, police, investigative procedures, etc., if it is possible that the prosecutor has given up on further prosecution, Mr Kolesar and Mr Janusevic, if there are six years of procedures for the Sartid affair, or do you think that after what the Wikiliks is in world terms, anything can be said, anything can be done, but that no one expects sanctions and that they are not obliged to do so either? I really don't think that this is an honor to anyone and that this law is allowed to be discussed as the first in a set of judicial laws, we are serving as a smoke screen for trying to correct what Mr. Bensan Deger and the European Commission wrote in the letter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49428	Ten minutes and 20 seconds have been used since the deputy president of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Milica Radovic and Milos Aligrudic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Milica Radovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49429	Because of the way this session was organised, due to the fact that six legal proposals in the field of justice have been brought together in one debate, in principle discussion, unfortunately, I did not have the opportunity, due to a lack of time, to say literally one single word about this draft law that is on the agenda today, in the amendments and additions of the Law on the execution of prison sentences for the crimes of organised crime. This has become a practice in Parliament's work, we simply point to these problems daily, and I believe that the main objective of such work is to prevent the opposition from pointing to all the problems and bad solutions that exist in the legislative proposals. I think that such work by parliament and the quality of the work of this call for parliament is under a great deal of question. We have submitted an amendment to Article 2. The bill, considering that the solution we now have in the current law is better. We don't think it's fully established to refer a person to a special department without his consent, especially if it's known what kind of a specific institution this is. If we know that jobs in a special department require the highest degree of responsibility, expertise and training, then the question is -- how is it even possible for the best people to be sent to work in a special department, if they go there completely reluctantly? I think that way they will not be motivated, but they will not simply be encouraged to do their best. I have to remind you that this is a matter that is extremely important. This is about working with the most difficult category of convicts and making mistakes with employees in that case are not allowed or even if they happen, they are very expensively paid. What happens if the face is not psychologically stable, or not fully prepared to work with such a category of convicted persons? What if such qualities come to light when dealing with the most severe convicts? Who will bear any consequence if such a mistake occurs? I think that this issue should be taken into account, I use the time of the parliamentary group, I think it is necessary to take care of that and that, in our opinion, it is very important that employees are referred to work in a special department exclusively willingly. So I'm talking about it primarily because it's known that it's a specific person category, that it's a specific regime and a specific institution. Also, I have to say that I understand that there is a big problem today when it comes to the number of employees in criminal, criminal and correctional institutions, I am aware of that problem, and I also know that there are those drastic cases where a guard comes to the table, and even to 140 prisoners, here I am talking about detained and convicted persons. That's a really big problem, but I think that problem should be approached on the other side. The question arises – what do our prisons look like today? Clearly, they're overbooked. Today in our prisons, meaning in all criminal and correctional institutions, there are close to 11,000 convicted, detained and criminally punished persons, and that the capacity of our prisons, if we want to respect all those European standards, is 7,000 convicted persons. I don't think I'll make a mistake if I say that Serbia is the first person in custody in Europe. It is not rare that ten persons stay in prisons within 20 square meters, not only upstairs beds, but even beds on three floors, and that closed faces sleep very often even on the floors. I think the lack of the funds themselves is very uncertain or, let me say, unrealistically expect new capacities to be built in the most recent period or it will be very difficult. Because of that fact, I believe that the state in one appropriate way must approach solving the overbooking of the prisons themselves. I will remind you that in our legal solutions there is a way that this issue can be resolved, primarily by a parole system or by applying alternative sanctions. They exist in legal solutions, but in practice they just don't apply. The question is, why? We also know that in practice it is very rare to apply the parole system, even in a situation where the court approves a convicted person of an application and even when accessing the solution itself on a given application. The procedure takes a long time, so that his reduction in prison sentences in that case is very little, i.e. insignificant. That's why I think it's high time that the state dealt with this problem in one appropriate way and suggested solutions that would overcome all these problems that we were talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49430	Four minutes and 15 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49431	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 2 provides for a change in the current Article 6. The law. This amendment provides for employees of the Department of Criminal Sanctions to quote – with their consent or because of the need for service, without their consent, to work in a special department by the Director of the Department of Criminal Sanctions, on the proposal of the Head of the Office in which the Special Department is located, for up to six months. To make it more clear to citizens who are monitoring this transmission, this is about giving the right to the director of Serbia's prisons that prison guards or other employees in this administration from time to time point to work in a newly built special prison in Zabela to keep Milorad Ulemek Legion, Zvezdan Jovanovic, Dusan Maric, members of the Zemun clan and others convicted of organised crime there. We in the SRS believe that this solution is unarranged and not sufficiently precise, that it leaves the possibility for different interpretations, and whenever there is a possibility that a certain legal standard can be interpreted differently, there is a possibility that it can be misused. The basic flaw of this solution is that it is unclear how often a prison guard can be referred to work in a prison ward. The abuse that may occur is the following – if an employee resents his superior, director or lower official, it may happen that he is specifically assigned to work every year for six months, which would be pointless, in a way it would be a change of job. As a result, the SRS submitted an amendment proposing that this solution be specified, in that the employees of the special department work could be referred to a total of up to six months over a period of two years. The government has rejected this amendment with one explanation that does not drink water, the government has broken pots and missed the topic. I read the first sentence of the argument – The government does not accept the amendment for the reason that the solution to the proposed amendment would make it difficult to work in a special department. This has nothing to do with anything. The government says -- six months, we say -- we agree, six months, but six months in two years, so there is no abuse. Secondly, it is business that involves work in jobs that are by the law of places where insurance training counts with increased duration. So, it's a certified job internship. What difference does it make if a job internship is being sanctioned or not being sanctioned? What does that have to do with whether it is necessary to limit the possibility of someone working in Zabel being posted every six months or being posted for six months in two or three years? It doesn't matter. Third argument, most special department jobs are performed by security employees, and such jobs involve special training. This has nothing to do with the subject, either. The only thing that can be accepted is this fourth argument – the adoption of the law is necessary in order to prevent the creation of a problem filled with jobs in a special department. We don't argue. But if there is such a problem, such a problem should not be solved by constantly bringing prison guards aside, rather than by hiring trained guards, prison guards to permanent work in a special department. It is clear that this amendment to the law is proposed because of Milorad Ulemek Legia, whose support is part of the current government in Serbia on 5 October 2000, as it is clear that this change of law will cause new budget costs which, in my opinion, are not justified and here is why. You made a special prison in Zabela that you claimed at the time of the opening was the safest prison in the world, that it was practically a bird that couldn't escape. 4/1 DM/MJ 10.45-10.55 Hundreds of thousands of euros were spent to build the prison. Now you're saying it's not enough, it's not enough, it's not enough building, it's not enough bars, I don't know how many belts there are, it's not enough 20-hour video surveillance, it's not enough for existing guards, it's necessary to hire additional guards. Is there really a problem with that? Is it really something to say? What existing legal guards in Zabela and Pogorevc will not keep Milorad Ulemek the Legion and others convicted, if that is the problem to be said, this problem will be dealt with in a different way. I ask the question, how much will your dealings with the regime of Slobodan Milosevic, i.e. with parliamentarians in destroying the regime of Slobodan Milosevic cost the citizens of Serbia? I'm asking this for the reason I get the impression that it's not just an organized fight, a fight against organised crime, but they're asking questions about a little revenge, some uncleared accounts. I'll give you an example. At a recent trial in the process of taking his house to Cerak, Milorad Ulemek witnessed a video link from prison, from the so-called Serbian Alcatraz, it was closed not between four walls, but between four times four walls. There were guards around him. What startled all those who could see that picture, he was shackled with chains, so-called. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Only when he refused to testify was the judge's order to take off his chains, to take off his shackles. I must say, I have no sympathy for Milorad Ulemek, nor for those who keep him in prison. However, this relationship with the Legion reminds me of the relationship the Habsburg monarchy had in the trial against Gabriel Principe in 1914 in Sarajevo. You remember that Gabriel Principe executed the assassination of the Crown Prince of Franco Ferdinand, and that's why he was sentenced to 20 years. He was brought to the courtroom at the time in Sarajevo to be bounded in bocagies. People call it "bucagia." However, if you compare these two cases, believe me that when you make one comparison, all comparisons are in favour of the court of Austria in relation to the case and to the damage to Serbia's judiciary. I'll give you three proofs. First, Gavrilo Principe did not testify with a video link, did not testify from a prison he could not escape from, but was brought to trial and objectively there was the possibility that someone would kill him, die or be kidnapped. Secondly, the principle was tried by the judiciary of another state, the occupation state, and the Legion is citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who have certain merits for this country, so you claimed up to a few years ago, apparently inflicted great damage. However, the fact is that he was rewarded by this state for some of the works and won certain medals. Third, the principle was brought to trial in an authoritarian empire, in a state that became 100 years ago, where there was no importance of human rights. On the other hand, you chained the Legion to trial in the 21st century in a country where the story of human rights became a daily topic in which the story became a lucrative business, a story told daily by both the authorities and the opposition and the media and NGOs. It's not clear to me, what is this reasonable reason that a man in four walls from a solitary room who can't escape from a bird, simply there's no theoretical possibility that a trial in front of a camera is being brought to a bucagia? Next, I would like to explain to the Proposer what one of the formulas referred to in Article 2 to which this amendment applies, and I will quote "employees of the Criminal Sanctions Administration" as saying, "with their consent or because of the need for a service without their consent, to work in the last department, he is referring to the Director of the Sanctions Administration". Now I don't understand why this "with their consent", if the next sentence says, "or without their consent". So he can go to the corners, he doesn't have to go to the corners, he can do more, he can do less. If so, was it not easier to write without mentioning this consent that an employee’s guard was referred to Zabel on the basis of the opinion of the Department for the Implementation of Prison Sanctions? There's one more thing I don't get. I'm stating this because you're really showing that you have no ear to the opposition's objections to amendments that are so logical, reasonable, that it's simply impossible not to accept them. He says, with their consent or because of the need for service without their consent. Now I'm curious, does this mean that if prison guards go to Zabel, the Serbian Alcatraz with its consent, it's not because of the need for service. So, if he's going by the order of the warden, then he's going by the need for service, if he's going by his consent, then obviously he's not going because of the need for service, and I'm interested in the minister's answer for what he's going for and why it's being referred to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49432	Seven minutes and 40 seconds used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? A group of 22 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49433	We have submitted an amendment to Article 2 requesting the removal of the proposal, i.e. the basic Article 6 where it is regulated, i.e. in an almost old way, a reference without consent or with consent due to the need for a service employed in a special department, which is made by the Director of the Criminal Sanctions Administration. In view of the fact that this can be declared by the appeal to the competent minister of justice who does not delay the execution of the solution, which is an increasingly common practice applied to the conduct of the government authority, I believe that this Member should not only be deleted, but it should be said that the posting of staff members of the Administration is already fully governed by the Law on the execution of criminal sanctions and that these provisions are, in the same way, governed by the reference, as you are trying to arrange this proposed amendment of the basic Article 6. It seems there in a more comprehensive and clear way. What else was the additional reason we asked to delete this member? Is that we realize that here too is the intention just to avoid that real explanation, which is to correct the error made in the adoption of this law, where it went with the wrong name. The reason for this is that you state in an explanation for the change in this article that when you direct someone without his consent, it is in fact that we send employees who are the most responsible, the most professional and most trained employees to do certain jobs. Now you explain to me how it is possible that if in the first plan of change and supplementing this member that you, without his consent, point to the work outside of a special administration, six months or what I know, without his consent, to achieve the goal of a more responsible, better quality, more professional, etc., work. It's just not human nature, it's collegiate with one another. This member of the law actually speaks of you, passing laws here in the Assembly for consideration, making proposals that are completely incomprehensible, not in line with some other laws, contrary to the Constitution and simply, what is most significant, they are inappropriate areas that you are trying to settle with legal proposals that are inadmissible in practice. This situation in the area of legislation creates huge difficulties for courts. So, to these laws here, we bring inconsistencies, incomprehensible, inappropriate states, we make life more difficult for the economy and the citizens, creating the biggest problems right in court. They have to deal with the interpretation of unclear laws, and we even have a case that the same law enforcement authorities are totally different in practice because the provisions of the law allow them to see this diversity of interpretation. What's most interesting is that you don't realize that every law, when it's passed, requires that a certain time after applying in practice we should see where the weak points of the law are, where those tiny cracks turn into holes for abuse or with divisions that actually talk about the discrepancies of what you wanted to achieve by law, if you were honest and the realities that these laws can actually cause. In our terms, it is practically impossible to create court practice for certain laws, because they change so often. 5/1 MO/IP 10.55-11.05 Just sent a bill to the Assembly, the government is already sending its amendments. And the next debate, or the next session, we have an amendment to that law. It's one forest of regulations that can no longer be dealt with by those who need to apply the laws, nor by those to whom they apply, and at least those whose rights you allegedly want to protect. In particular, I would like to point to the question of the unconstitutional nature of certain laws and the consequences of the conduct of proceedings before the Constitutional Court and the annulment of the law. I constantly point out that, without any special results or your sense of reality, the consequences of such actions. As an undeniable example, I quote to you the Law on Public Information, which was adopted last August, which we then claimed to be contrary to the Constitution and we gave clear reasons for that. As is known, immediately after the adoption of the law, only a few days later, an initiative was submitted by a citizen and a proposal by the Citizens' Protector for the assessment of the constitutionality of almost the entire law. A month ago, the Constitutional Court delivered a decision on the 27 pages that had been annulled by almost the entire law. The annulment of the law with us, unfortunately, is nothing unusual, and in other serious states it's quite rare. The amendments to the judicial laws we adopt at this session were also delivered less than 24 hours before the beginning of the session, so we were practically prevented from delivering amendments. We also claim that most of the changes you've submitted to these bill proposals are unconstitutional and that the adoption of these laws in the text, as you have suggested to us here, will only create new problems and damages. I simply have to ask you a question – what does the Government intend to do to prepare and implement the law to be adopted in this house in a way that ensures decentness, I will not say higher but decent quality of the law and avoid passing laws that are contrary to laws that are already in force, or those that do not comply with the Constitution? We think it is high time, Mrs. Malovic, that the Assembly stops wasting time correcting the mistakes of those who are preparing such laws for you, because citizens are suffering really immeasurable consequences from such laws. One extra question. As we discuss amendments to the laws that should be corrected here, while within 24 hours we discuss laws that will re-enter the Constitution, you have sent us a proposal for extensive amendments to the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions. It's on the assembly site, we got it as MPs. We now agree with that law. The adoption of the law was proposed by an emergency procedure. We're wondering why, by emergency procedure, if we're on the 29th in the race with time, everyone's already explaining, in a regular session we should bring in the budget? And what is the European Commission's observation and the reform that was actually a lustration, we're not gonna make it, or maybe we'll make it, we'll do it in a minute to 12. What does an emergency law change procedure mean, by which we are harmonising this law the moment you know he won't be able to argue? I can say it's just one simple farce. I can be a little bit sharper, but it is deserved, that this is the result of a complete disorganization at the Ministry of Justice, which should bear a banner of the legality of laws that are just, logical and truly qualified us to be in the society of serious EU states. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49434	Five minutes have been used since the deputy president of the parliamentary group, making all the time available for both two minutes and 10 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49435	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment is, in fact, a consequence and in agreement with the amendment submitted by my colleagues Milos Aligrudic and Milica Radovic, i.e. It is based on the view that we do not accept that part of the law relating to the fact that, without consent, employees of the Administration are referred to special departments. Of course, in that sense, if there is no provision to refer to special departments without their consent, it is also unnecessary to predict the existence of a legal remedy that would be used to declare against such a solution. What I'm trying to say is that there are a lot of contradictions and misunderstandings when it comes to these amendments to the law and this member of the law. What we also see at this session, we have had several discussions in the previous one, is that the government is moving with a liberal approach to provide different rights to employees. We also had such a case when it comes to the bill of amendments and additions to the Law on the salaries of civil servants, and now this law. Then after that, seeing problems in planning, changing and narrowing the rights of employees, it is that when it comes to civil servants, the issue of overtime can no longer be defined, can be defined without their consent, and here is the question of employees in the special department. The question arises as to how the plan is planned and how the situation is seen in one area when regulated by law. It's amazing that after a year, we had a serious debate under this law, which we find extremely important, where it was the subject of this debate that the employees would refer to in special departments. We are now coming to the conclusion that, in light of these amendments to the law, the proposer says that he has actually misjudged the required number of employees in the special department. Of course, the question is, what are the consequences of these changes? The way you define it in an explanation, you absolutely can't achieve such an effect. If you want to get into one sensitive thing, such as this issue of sending employees to special departments, professional, trained, qualified and motivated employees, you will not get it if you force it there, regardless of all the benefits you have listed and which it has according to this and other regulations. He will not be motivated, and it cannot be claimed that the problems that the regulation needs to address in the light of the law on matters that are carried out by the most responsible and professional and most trained employees... They can't be influenced by this category, because they lack motivation. They're forced. They may not want to have twice as much money, they don't want to have paid expenses, other kinds of fees. They just won't, they don't want to go there, and you're making them. Then the question is, how are they going to do this job when they go there without their will? What are the dangers of corruption and the fact that they are there to run a job that is extremely important, extremely complex and extremely dangerous? So you can't motivate employees, obviously, because you have that problem right now. You can't just motivate them with money, but you need something else. In fact, a serious personnel analysis needs to be carried out, to review the situation that exists in the entire management staff system, and eventually to look for different solutions, except that you will force people against their will to go there. I think you're getting into a big problem, that we're going to face this problem very quickly, possibly until some new amendments to the law, and unfortunately, we're going to discuss this important law again. The question that is important is also the issue of prison conditions. This will cause an even deeper problem, and how you will respond to what is in the European Commission questionnaire and what you are told in the European Commission's report, as regards the situation in prisons, this is a special problem, but surely in some more favourable light, you will not make this situation a solution. Thank you. 6/1 LjS/TJ 11,05-11,15
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49436	It's been used three minutes since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yes, the people sent Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49437	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with Article 2. The draft law on the execution of prison sentences for organised crime is mostly clear. So does the state have a problem with the number of people who need to work in the special department of criminal sanctions enforcement? Apparently he does. That is why the National Assembly and access to the amendments to this law. Then what does a state that has a problem with a sufficient number of its employees who should work in one of its bodies? Well, he sends them to work in that organ. The government, however, behaves in one way that is absolutely not understood. You have a problem with the number of people who need to work in the special department of criminal sanctions enforcement, but then you say - you send employees on the basis of their approval or, if the service needs require it, and without their approval. The needs of service exist in both cases. No one works in the special department of the Department of Criminal Sanctions because it does not require the need for service. Of course the need for service is something to assume. The need for the service says that a certain number of employees must work in the special department of criminal sanctions enforcement. Is there enough now? They're gone. Therefore, a number of employees from an organisational unit of the institution in which there is a special department should be sent, to this particular department. Here is a completely irrelevant question of the will of those who work in the public service, whether they will or will not work in a special department. The SRS cannot accept the finding of individual fellow Members of Parliament, who say – you know, there is no will to work in a special department. Whoever doesn't have the will to work in a special department will lose state service. It's very simple. Imagine a cop who says on the street - I'm not going to bring in a criminal who was found committing a crime, I have no will. So that question shouldn't be asked. The only question here is whether the state wants to solve the problem of insufficient staff in a special department or not. If he wants to, then the employees of an organization unit should be sent to work in a special department, regardless of his will. The question of will is in private-legal relations, in bond relations, in the conclusion of a contract, so if I don't, no one can force me to conclude a contract. In the state service, so-called Voluntary autonomy is reduced to a minimum, such as will autonomy reduced to a minimum in some other social relations. Imagine if citizens said - I do not have the will to pay taxes or - I do not have the will to pay the court fee or, while it was mandatory to serve the military deadline - I do not have the will to go to the military. So in many issues of social relations, where public interest is represented, there is absolutely no question of will, but either something must be done or must not be done. Obviously, the state here has to do something, because definitely the Republic of Serbia has a problem with the number of employees in the special department. Is it because, as some of my colleagues have said and as I said in the principle debate, there are not enough employees in the special department to guard, as you say "criminal number one in Serbia" Milorad Ulemek Legion or is there some other reason. In any case, this country has a problem with the number of employees in the special department. That problem can only be solved by sending a number of employees to work in a special department. There's absolutely no question of will. Here the problem also arises because the Government has been unsettlingly formulating Article 2. If you read Article 2. The bill, then you see that the needs of service only exist when an employee is sent without his consent, and when an employee is sent with his consent to a special department, then the need for service does not exist. It's probably a mistake to build a sentence, it's probably a language slip, but there's definitely a need for service, whether there's an employee's consent or not. Here, since the public interest is extremely high, there is no question of whether anyone wants to or does not want to work in a special department. If he's working in the state service, he'll be working on that job where his superiors schedule him. That's how you do it in every normal state. The SRS has no intention of defending anyone convicted before the competent judicial authorities of the Republic of Serbia. Don't even think about it being you, Madam Minister, or the MPs, or the citizens of Serbia, that now the SRS should play a wooden lawyer to the Legion or anyone. No, the Legion was never our political friend, he was a political friend of this regime. To us, what the people say, not out of their pockets, not in their pockets. We're trying to act like one serious, rational and state-of-the-art party. Does the state have a problem with the number of special department employees? There is. Whoever's in the special ward, that's another question. Definitely this country has the problem and the only possible way to solve the problem is to send a certain number of employees to a special department, without absolutely asking the question of their will, as the question of will is not asked in other civil servants. Secondly, the need for service as a legal category exists and it is entirely irrelevant whether employees go to work in a special department with their consent or without their consent. There is, therefore, absolutely a need for service for a number of employees in a special department, and this need for service stems from public interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49438	Four minutes and 45 seconds have been used since the deputy president of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Amendment proposing the addition of a new Article 2a. A group of 22 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49439	In the shortest way to explain the solution, where we in Article 2a have provided that, for the purpose of which you have declared - the acquisition of a quality administration in which one of the most responsible, most professional, and most skilled, is to do the job, we have given an amendment with the addition of Article 2 which reads: "For the Commissioner of Article 1 of this Article, a person who has acquired a second-degree higher education can be deployed, i.e. having completed master's degree studies or a higher education acquired in a scale with regulations that were valid until the entry into force of the Law on Higher Education and which is equal to the academic name of master." All the objections I made to you as failures when submitting the bill, that they are not in line with other laws, we are just this amendment to Article 2 by adding Article 2a to this. In line with what the Law on Higher Education, which was adopted in 2005 and 2007, but was adopted authentic interpretation in 2008 and 2010, where academic titles and titles, types and levels of studies were changed, were now applied to this law, so that for the fourth time we would not return to the alignment, or that someone would not have thought to interpret differently the provision that this work is done by an employee who is professional and qualified for the job. Regardless of how this law entered the procedure in August of the month, Madam Minister, you must have someone who follows the adoption of the law here. The amendment of the Progress Group to Serbia's SNS was adopted, when we discussed the Law on State Administration and Article 84 prescribed that a civil servant must have that degree of education in order to manage the administrative procedure, so it is necessary to literally adopt this provision, in order for this law to enter into the single legal system of the state of Serbia. 7/1 BD/MČ 11,15-11.25 It's better to do it now than to discuss the same law again in a few months. So I simply believe that it is necessary to adopt Article 2a in order to comply with the Law on State Administration, because of the conduct of the administrative procedure, which will certainly be and also in line with the authentic interpretation of the Law on Higher Education, which has been adopted since 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49440	55 seconds has been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic and Milos Aligrudic submitted together to Article 3 of the amendment. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49441	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we really wanted to contribute to the consistent implementation of the solutions defined here. Namely, why single out, and why, when it comes to checking assets, specifically define the position of Head of the Office and the Chief of Special Branch in relation to the other persons defined in Article 10 of Article 5 of the basic text of the law? In fact, we were just talking about the way we employees are now treated and obliged to go, to do jobs against their will, regardless of what degree they can really fulfil that obligation, when they are without any consent there, but when we already want to prevent any possibility of corruption, any possibility of abuse, then it would be good to have the property of the head of the office, the head of the special department of water and verification at the Anti-Corruption Agency, and not in some competent organisational unit at the headquarters of the administration. First of all, who can guarantee us that such a single record in the administration headquarters will be properly managed, that it will not be misused? Who monitors these data and does it make anyone available? We don't see it from this text of the law. Of course, now it will be said - so the persons listed here fall under the persons that are defined by law in the Anti-Corruption Agency, but precisely because of the sensitivity of the problem, because of the importance they have both in this law and in the judicial system to say, both in the criminal system and because of the possibility of being the subject of corruption, it would be good for one body, which was established here in the National Assembly, the Anti-Corruption Agency, to lead and the data on their property and, of course, without their will, to verify that there has been a change in their property cards. I don't see why this amendment was rejected. I don't see what the government is going to get by, what the place is going to be and, let's say, the space where corruption is, in fact, the biggest, what's in the immediate environment of the special department, and that's the warden of the prison and the head of the special department and employees to prevent the possibility of corruption. Of course, corruption is possible, and when it comes to the President of the Court, the President of the Powered Judges, the President of the Court of Appeal, etc. But the possible degree of corruption, possible corruption, a corrupt action that would give favor to those who support prison sentences is precisely the most direct, most likely of these persons defined in Article 10(1). Therefore, I call on you to accept this amendment, when the Agency is already doing so many jobs, it will not be a problem for her to keep records of the assets and these persons, and that in the extreme line, some contribution or at least a calm conscience will be made to try to prevent corruption in this form from being done here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49442	One minute and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? If not, MP Zoran Krasic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49443	Mrs. Komic, how much time do we have left for these 17 laws?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49444	Sixty minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49445	Thank you. The amendment was not accepted by the government because it believes that the solution the government has written is better. Now let me tell you right now, that's no argument, that's no reason to refuse the amendment, because if I told you what the government thought was better, so it turned out up, the list would be pretty big, probably 16 days I couldn't count everything. With disgust, I must conclude that the pro-European law is changing in a more pro-primitative way. With what right of pro-European law do you change? Who authorized you to introduce new standards beyond Europe? What kind of way is that? When is the state in a different state, when laws are passed or during these changes? It's just amazing. Why are you changing a very good law? The best law was the day we adopted it in 2009. You are now coming here to amend the best European law that has been praised by the Venice Commission, by Holbrooke, by Madeline Albright, by the NATO Pact, by the United States, by the EU, by Bulgaria, by Romania, by Thaci, by Haradinaj. You want to fight us with the whole world. You have a little, a little bit, and then you have a little bit of an expedient mind, so when you have no reason to adopt the amendment, you say, ‘You consider it.’ What's your guarantee, when do you consider it? What argument is that? They think their solution is better and after a few months another body appears, repeats all the words that Serbian radicals have said and then they refer, no longer consider, to some new attempt when they will again consider it. Now, can anyone understand this situation that was created by refusing this amendment? The government says this - we have real problems providing officers who will work as guards in a special department, no one will, although large benefits have been given. We are entering the reason why someone will not, but we are changing the law, so we say – there will be no more agreement, now by official duty, and when we submit an amendment that should be under official duty to check those people who need to work there, then they say – they can't make such an amendment, they can, and, if necessary, stand by the law. Who should conclude that when needed? Milan Obradović, from a mercy called Rambo. Him? Don't tell me he's some sort of argument. The Anti-Corruption Agency, Cedomir Cupic, the argument? Excuse me, please, a man who failed in 2003 as a member of Montgomery with the Resistance and has now been implicated in all structures. Homen came the ministry, Rambo came to control the prisons, Cupic controls the agency. You've got a couple of copies here. You've got a lawyer's office. Now we are facing a problem – is the legal solution normal, constitutional and what is the practice? Practice is a disaster. Trained by experience as it is, we have no moral right to vote for some changes that might look like something constitutional and legal. Why? Because it's practically a fault. Let me remind you of one thing. Anyone who's in jail for a sentence is under resociation measures. The purpose of the sentence and the sentence of the prison is to get the person concerned to be able to live a normal life, and you, what do you demonstrate? Demonstrate hatred, revenge, demonstrate everything that is not the EU's fluids, or the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights. Inversion happens in us, those who were blowing balloons when Milosevic was buried, advanced in the social structure, became turbo moral characters, and we will condemn everything else. I don't want to comment on any verdict, I just want to draw your attention that there are some cases where those who exercise power, who are obliged to inform citizens about everything and all of them confuse a few causes and several reasons, so from the point of view of motive and the perpetrator, we have a wide range of possible variations. 8/1 GI/MS 11.25-11.35 I only remind you of the situation that and what happened there before the start of World War II in Germany, when the Bundestag was set on fire, after 75 years it was admitted that the judicial verdict was mounted. We'll talk about the Rosenberg family, talk about the Drape affair, etc. I get the impression that you're not even able to hire those difovies you later hired to be cops and guards. Finishing the DIF people, having a yellow membership card, etc. We almost had a situation when there was a trial of the great criminal Bosiljko Mladic and one of the security guards was nervous. I immediately calmed him down when I told him that his DS membership card had dropped and he was sagging a machinal man to take that membership card. There is no membership card and the trial could have been peaceful in the new court, etc. You now expect us to cooperate with you who are in some condition, in some state of turmoil, you don't know the answer. Who's going to check - the Anti-Corruption Agency or this special department or it keeps records, and the two competent ministries are checking everything that could cause corruption and conflict of interest. In the Anti-Corruption Agency, you have people who are permanently in conflict of interest. When you look at that Zoran Stojiljkovic, he's with both unions and colleges, both in the agency and in NGOs, he's everywhere. He's a pedestal and you can't move. They control you because your joint bosses don't trust you. You still haven't filed a report for those millions spent on judicial work. How much do you owe for that building - 500 million dinars. How many construction firms have you ruined? Do you feel the same way? Well, you're forbidden to consider it. You when you think there's a disaster for the state. Of course, I do not urge you to adopt the amendment since you have given the opinion that you are rejecting it, but now think about the previous position of this member where you say - the way you check will be regulated by the government's regulation. How are you gonna do that? I accept that, but why isn't that principle present in other regulations, but you are empowering some ministers to prescribe the procedure and everything else? Here's how you look at the RS legal system. You've totally destroyed it and you're always right. Pro-European, turbo-European, turbo-NATO, pro-pro-Spects, pro-Spectian. Well, who's going to catch what you're doing? Don't adopt this amendment, please, because I don't know what would happen if you did.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49446	Six minutes and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 22 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 3rd amendment. The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49447	Article 3 The proposal treats the asset verification at the disposal of employees who are required to do these tasks. We have proposed that Article 12 be amended and that the persons referred to in Article 10(1) should be obliged to submit a report on their assets and incomes and property and on the incomes of spouses or non-marriage partners, as well as underage children, if they live in the same family household, as well as on subsequent changes in property. The second point of view of our amendment is that the content of the report and the monitoring of the property situation are accordingly subject to the provisions of the laws governing the prevention of conflicts of interest in the exercise of public functions. The register of persons referred to in Article 1(1) shall be kept in the water of the Administration, and the records shall be kept in the official secret. Madam Minister, I would like you to adopt this Article 12, not your basic solution that is incompatible with the Constitution, to violate the human rights of the persons employed in these bodies and, under the alleged form of greater control, you are actually not in control of these persons. So it's enough for their incomes and assets to be arranged with the applicable laws. What you have proposed is a violation of human rights, a violation of the international Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms, and it does not prevent conflict of interest, and I guess that's our primary goal. What is particularly interesting, as with the solution to DRI, is that you have burdened an institution with so many jobs that it cannot answer in quality in physical time, neither with the number of employees, nor with the capacity it has, that you can actually re-reciprocate the results it brings. In the same way, by applying that principle, you are asking to submit reports of a very wide circle of relatives' faces with whom someone you want to control may not even have contact, brothers from uncles, aunts, aunts, people who are not even obliged to supply data, or may respond to this data. What's particularly unacceptable? The fact that such a prescribed Article 12 has been written "in Article 10 of Section 5 of this Law", so that it is checked that you propose to Article 12, that it is done through the BIA and other special institutions, in fact prescribed that it applies to both the presidents of the courts and the judges, as well as to the prosecutors. They're assigned to these jobs by the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Major Prosecutors, so it's not acceptable to be controlled by secret services and regular police, or do you think that's appropriate? Does this mean that the High Council of the Judiciary and the State's Chief Prosecutors will base their decision on secretly collected data from the D.B.P.D. and the police? It is surprising that such a law suggests your Ministry of Justice, and perhaps not surprising, since some judicial officials have said in due time that the choice of judges and prosecutors is based on data obtained from the BIA and the police. I have already said once in the principle debate and I repeat that this way of carrying out security checks, checking the property situation and the way in which the collected data is recorded is not in accordance with Article 42(2). The Constitution. I think he should be erased like that. What is particularly interesting is that such a provision cannot be interpreted so that the law can authorise the executive body to regulate it by means of a sublegal act, as you are trying to prescribe by this law. There is already a clear view of the Constitutional Court, which neither the Government nor the Ministry nor the National Assembly should ignore, or do you want us to have another unconstitutional law and give the Constitutional Court some more work material because you have not burdened them enough? One question is what does it look like in life, Mrs. Minister, police co-operation, judicial authorities and actions and checking the property situation and rapid response? It looks like this. You're bringing in a man who hasn't been properly paid for a parking ticket, i.e. for over-staying time in a parking space of 1,300 dinars with the cost of the procedure. The two officers came to the door neatly to bring in the one who paid that fine six months ago and the one on the checkout printed out on that one and that criminal judge. The two authorities have a problem coordinating co-operation and data delivery, but evidence could not be provided for the lack of Kolesar and Janjusevic. Does anyone have any comment on that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49448	Four minutes and 15 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of a new member of the 3a group of 22 MPs to the Progressive Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49449	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, in Article 29, which is covered by Amendment 3a, is prescribed in paragraph 1, that the convict is, as a rule, separated from the other convicts, a person convicted of organised crime. However, according to all international conventions, it is a violation of these conventions, which we are also signatories, for the reason that the relationship with convicted persons is considered to be human. Of course, as with all our amendments, the government has rejected this amendment, and what treatment for convicted persons today can at least be said to be out of line with international regulations and conventions where we are signatories. There is currently only one prison in Serbia to support women's sentences and that is in Pozarevec. The warden of the prison is a certain Anka Gogic-Mitic, who is very little about the manager's business, who rather likes to travel, paint, to make some press statements, so she is not interesting to me in this debate. I'm interested in the deputy director, a certain Mr. Vladica Bozilovic, otherwise a former military officer, who was expelled from the military because he was treated for serious addiction diseases. Such a deputy manager, convicted female in prison in Pogorevec, calls: "Beautiful, little girls, dolls, convicts". Do I have to tell you that these convicts are, as a rule, younger and more attractive? Those who are older and less attractive, they are treated like a sergeant from American films, who commands them: "quietly, left, right, march forward, etc." But this isn't the worst thing this gentleman could have done either. A few months ago in that women's prison, in a pavilion where convicted persons sleep, a fire broke out. The electro-diving closet's on. The convicted persons informed the guards, and the deputy warden ordered the guards to force convicted persons to put out the fire class E, without proper equipment and without proper training. When the threat of inhaled panic infused convicted persons began to self-injure or hurt each other, one of the guards self-initiatedly opened the door of the pavilion and with appropriate equipment until professional firefighters arrived put out the fire. You call it a humane relationship to convicted persons. I don't want to go into the reasons why they're convicted. The law states that convicted persons lose certain civil rights that belong to them under the Constitution, but such humiliation, such harassment, and such unprofessional management of such an institution can no longer be permitted to this gentleman. If you decide to send an inspection there, I'd like you to check the travel expenses of the vehicle belonging to the warden because it's spent over a million and a half dinars a year, according to the knowledge I have, and convicted persons, women have no means of personal hygiene. More managers and deputy directors force them to take care of it themselves and get it themselves. It's a human relationship in our prisons, and it wouldn't be a bad thing for that gentleman to fall under all these measures that you're predicting for the people who are going to work at special detention facilities. In my opinion, he could never be the head of any state authority in any prison. The only thing he could do, he could get fired.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49450	It was used two minutes and 50 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Ministerial Snezana Malovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49451	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these facts that you have presented today represent truly serious concerns, and as justice minister, I will request today that the competent inspection check your allegations and with the report that we receive you and the public of Serbia will be familiar with. I just want to point out the fact that we at the Department of Justice and the Department of Criminal Sanctions didn't have a problem determining any responsibility in our country simply follows the rule that we will sanction any inconsistencies, any failure or abuse of labour, and on the other hand, we will reward all those who show a certain sacrifice. Through the practice we have so far, it can simply determine the truthfulness of my words. In any case, an inspection will be sent during the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49452	I ask the National Assembly's service that a stenogram of the presentation of MP Veroljub Arsic during today's working day be delivered to Justice Minister Snezani Malovic, so that she can initiate the procedure. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic and Milos Aligrudic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49453	We have submitted this amendment because we do not believe that a convicted person has been founded to deny the right to a specialist medical examination, and it is also not founded to deny that right in that situation when he is willing to pay for the review. Why am I saying this? Because recently many studies have been conducted that have shown that convicted persons in Serbia and Serbian prisons do not have adequate medical assistance. Of course it is known that medical care is indicated in those situations where the measures are forced, conditionally speaking, to be used in accordance with the law, but what will we do in those situations when classical abuse is at work? We are all aware here in the O.R. and all those who are a little concerned with this issue that human rights in Serbian prisons are not respected in the way that this should be done and that the examples of abuse and cruel behavior itself are not unfortunately a rare phenomenon. Here, too, it should be said that the encouraging fact is that, in the course of time, the number of cases of cruel treatment itself is reduced, that the number of overpowering by the guards and violence itself is reduced, but there are cases of individual cruel treatment. There is a need to distinguish between criminal and correctional institutions of an open and closed type, because in an open-label type these cases of abuse so that they do not exist, but it is necessary to look at the same situation as in a criminal and correctional institution in Pofirevac, and in particular what is the situation in that same criminal and correctional institution when women are concerned. That's why I think this amendment we've submitted has a basis. It should be accepted and I think that his contribution to the prevention of abuse itself will certainly not be negligible and therefore I ask you once again to consider it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49454	It's been used 25 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 22 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 4th amendment. The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49455	Here's another illustration of how sometimes we burden laws with completely excess provisions that are treated by other laws, we introduce them, and then we delete them as excesses, and we deal with it as if we're really passing some laws. Article 30. The law of the basic, i.e. Article 4 of the amendment and supplementation had as Section 3 that a specialist medical examination which was granted exclusively at the request of the convicted was carried out at its expense. It was part of the law at the time, and now we delete it by amending and supplementing Article 3. What it is, that the usual regulations of health care should not be deleted and should apply to prisoners as well. So there are rules in the war, and there must be human conditions in prison. The death penalty is the achievement of civilization and should be abolished and no one has the right to take someone's life or wish him dead because it's in God's hands. And birth, as well as death. Human society, civilization society, has the achievement of retraining human nature that is variable and you will agree with me, that still Mr. Toru in the book of Valden, somewhere from the end of the 19th century, wrote that he was glad that man was ready to infuse his nature and make it better. On this positive approach, we are designing education, education and measures to repair human nature. In that sense, basic health care is something that is necessary, but it is regulated by other regulations and has been completely excessive and included in this proposal, as it is now too much to deal with by eradicating this provision. It's simple, I have to say, this is a pattern of copying, persuasion, combining provisions in the law, where certain provisions and solutions are and it's not a place, and I think it's caused by the unnecessary speed and writing of the law, but also by their adoption without public debate and by an urgent procedure. To conclude the debate on this law that we've been preparing for, and for all future emergency procedures, many of you haven't heard of a saying -- "there are no emergency jobs, there are only people who are late and who don't know how to plan." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49456	Forty-five seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49457	Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the laws in front of the Serbian Parliament, I would like to remind you that hundreds and hundreds of laws have been passed since 2000. What is seen here and what is as a fact visible? It's that most of these laws change more than 50%. Some even change before they apply the law, and some change for a month, two months, three months, six months or a year. This is what lacks legislators and promoters and is lacking in this House that these laws must be seen as microsurgery. You, if you think you're going to introduce democracy in Serbia, by making a number of laws and meeting the requirements of America or the EU, I think you're making a big mistake. It is seen in what Serbia has no obligation to adopt any laws under anyone's dictatorship and at anyone's request from the EU. Why? The professional public suggests that many professors have indicated that we do not have the obligation to agree, adopt and amend these laws according to the EU or US model, because Serbia is not an EU member. If Serbia becomes an EU member, the question is whether it will be 20 or 30 years from now, or if Serbia will not live or wait to join the EU because the EU itself will fall apart. There are a number of laws to be passed, especially when it comes to law enforcement laws, and especially the Code of Criminal Procedure, because you know very well that the Code of Criminal Procedure of 2000 was passed in 2001, that it was a very good law. He regulated the execution of criminal sanctions in an adequate and orderly manner. This Code of Criminal Procedure is among the most democratic laws in Europe. The law was made by top experts, then at the federal justice ministry. It has also been assessed on the international agenda as an extremely good project, a good law and that democracy in it has been shown, as this law protects fundamental human rights and citizens' freedoms. I will never agree with protagonists or with proposings who think we will have a greater democracy if we assume certain standards from America. In America, the death penalty is still in effect. We have abolished this law, the Code of Criminal Procedure and Criminal Law in 2000, and in 2001, and you see, we are being imposed on us from America and some countries, although the death penalty is still in Japan and South Korea, and the most inhumane means towards prisoners and detainees who are sentenced to death in the United States. Imagine what those tools and techniques have. They've got hanging cords, they've got gas chambers, they've got lethal injections, they've got anesthesia with toxic fluids... (President: National MPs, the death penalty cannot possibly be the topic of the agenda. Please talk about the amendment. )......................................................................................................... I'll finish and stick to the subject. I'm saying these convicts in the U.S. are waiting for an electric chair sometimes up to 12 years. (President: National MP, for these convicts in the United States is responsible for Congress and the United States Senate.) There is no death penalty in the Republic of Serbia, and that cannot be the subject of our agenda, unless you want to introduce it, and it cannot be today. It is, it doesn't exist. We don't have the death penalty, we've lifted it. Of course, we don't have the death penalty because we've abolished it and we think it was inhumane. There are other means of resociation or other means of sanctions. In the case of prisoners, i.e. prisoners and convicted persons based on criminal offences of organised crime, the execution and execution of each person from the detention unit cannot be carried out without a judge. What was going on in practice? In practice, convicted persons who are in custody, without the knowledge of the judge and the prosecutor, have been brought out of these institutions and are being questioned, heard and harassed for other crimes. However, in the Code of Criminal Procedure, we have ruled out any possibility that persons present in the maintenance of a prison sentence cannot be executed without the presence and consent of an investigative judge. They can't be questioned at all for the crimes they've been convicted of, but only for some other crime, but with the presence of a lawyer. I'll say a few more sentences. Mrs. Malovic, you have to admit that our prisons are full. In 2000, there were about 6500 detainees, or imprisoned and sentenced. Today we have about 12,000. How many square meters, are those standards? I'll remind you now of the Panchev prison. His capacity is for 60 prisoners, and now he's got 180. 11/1 MP/IP 11.55-12.05 So it's about inhumane relations with detainees. I don't know how far you've come and if you have any intention, I would ask you to answer me - is there a plan to build a prison in Pancheva because it's in the middle of the city and it's in the location of the corzo, and there's a space where it has opportunities, because the project and the program and the plan, it allows one such facility to finally be removed from the center of the periphery? What's also important is that you have to establish a greater control of the Justice Department's inspection of the institutions where criminal and legal sanctions are carried out. I think there's a lot of gaps in that part, somewhere and abuse, and you need to take more care of the people who are in jail, because they're people too. We have to show, the state has to show, through its legal projects and laws, that it takes care enough of the rights and freedoms of our citizens, primarily convicted persons. Krasic has just said that this law has been talked about by the SRS MPs, and I would have ended it, but I would ask you to give me an answer to this issue concerning the district prison former in Panchev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49458	Eight minutes and 55 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda of the search in particular – Proposal for a Law on Amendments of the Law on the Regulation of the Courts You have received an amendment submitted by MP Mirko Munjic to the bill of law. You also received the Government's opinion on the amendment. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Mirko Munjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49459	Madam Minister, the non-acceptation of this amendment by the Government, along with the reasons given by the Government for not accepting the amendment, speaks in fact in favour of the fact that the Government here has simply arbitraryly interpreted the provision of Article 196(4). The Constitution of Serbia. However, I am a political ambiance that you, as a government, have established in the state of Serbia, as well as a political mile that carries many attributes to a normal political life, as well as a normal multiparty life, so this ambience brings us many illogicalities, many contradictions, many violations of the law, and even, behold, one arbitrary, to say, in my opinion, interpreting the provision of Article 196(4). The Constitution of Serbia. This interpretation was carried out beyond the intensity this member, therefore, this position 4, the Constitution had. Such an argument by the Government that, in this case, there are particularly reasonable reasons for the fact that, for the entry into force of this law on the following day, they have at least no justification in what the Constitution wanted in Article 196(4). I'll just read it for a second. The government does not accept the amendment because it is the opinion that there are particularly justified reasons for the entry into force of the law before the eighth day of publication in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" set out in the reasoning of the bill. So you're just realizing there's some valid reason. Right? If there's a reason, Madam Minister, then there's more. The crowd. So there's more of them. Perhaps you would have convinced us if you had at least said one good reason. What you wrote in your explanation for the adoption of the law, that the supervision of the spending of the budget, which is due as of 1 January to carry out the High Council of the judiciary, and that the High Council of the judiciary is not yet in a position to do so since 1 January 2011, is not a reason at all, is not a valid reason at all. It is simply an arbitrary interpretation of this provision of the Constitution, that there are particularly justified reasons. If you had submitted this bill 15 days ago, there would have been no problem here. Are you, Madam Minister, e.g. On November 15th, they knew that there were no conditions for the High Judicial Council to also do these jobs done by your ministry by 1 January 2011. Did you know that on December 1st, December 5th, December 10th, or did you simply find out on December 21st this year when the government officially submitted the bill to the Serbian Parliament? So this is your fault. There are no legitimate reasons here, as provided for in Article 196(4). The Constitution of Serbia. Simply, you're arbitraryly interpreting this member and least of all, what you've done here with this provision of the bill is at least unserious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49460	Two minutes and 50 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Does anyone else want a word, since this is the only amendment submitted to this proposal for amending and supplementing the law? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the review of the amendment, I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular, and the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judges. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milica Radovic, Jovan Palalic, Vlatko Ratkovic, Srdjan Mikovic and Sreto Peric on the bill. You've also received the Government's opinion on the amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milica Radovic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Milica Radovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49461	To show how much we disagree with the amendments to this law, the Law on Judges, which we consider a key law here, we have submitted amendments to almost every member of this bill. We believe that what we said in the principle debate, that it should not have been possible to amend and supplement this law in such a way, overnight, beyond consulting the very professional public. You here, in addition to not respecting the opinion of the professional public, which you are in some way running away from her opinion, you are hiding and running away from the debate itself, and it is simply not a way to remove all the shortcomings you have been shown in the European Commission's report in time and, of course, which is the opposition, which is the very professional public. In this Article 1. You're in violation of the general rules. The High Council of the judiciary has already decided on the non-election of certain judges and now you are in fact giving him the opportunity to decide again, this time by objecting to the decision he also made. So the question arises – how is it possible for one organ to decide both in the first and second degree? It's something I'd like to hear from the minister herself to explain to me what motives made her make such a decision. However, this Article 1 is in direct connection with Article 5, where it is said, I will read in particular the positions of 2nd and 3rd which say that - proceedings under appeal, or constitutional appeals, which the judges of Article 1 have brought to the Constitutional Court, end with the effect of this law and the cases are subject to the High Council of the Judiciary. 12/1 DM/TJ 12,05-12,15 This is just amazing. I would understand that we are in a state of emergency, that we are in some state of war when such laws are referred to Parliament itself, but this really doesn't have any excuse. Also, the position of the 3rd appeal, i.e. the constitutional appeal referred to in Article 2, will be seen as an objection to the decision of the High Council of the judiciary. That's what's just amazing. It's amazing that the objection gets the same legal weight, the same legal force as the constitutional appeal itself. I would really like you to explain to me, to answer me, in which book you have read it and what is the solution that you have copied, which exists in parallel-law practice. I know you want to get out of a problem that you yourself have entered, but the way you want to go out is not adequate. You don't have to go out in such a way that you're going to be making an even bigger problem and that you're actually going to create an atmosphere of universal legal uncertainty. It's something the DSS will never accept. In time, let me say, for two years, we've been pointing out the failures of all these bill proposals and really what we've had the opportunity to see and what we're discussing at the very least deserves the most intense criticism.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49462	One minute and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? The People's MP, Jovan Palalic, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49463	Madam Minister, a major problem will create the adoption of this law with such solutions. Of course, not taking into account all the criticisms that we've been making, when it comes to the full reform of the judiciary, and telling you what kind of problem you're going to be in. What you are now doing with these changes, in addition to all these problems my colleagues have been saying, creates one complete inequality of parties in the process and the possibility of using their rights. If you are already entering the entire process of reviewing the elected judges, the question arises – what rights these judges have after the end of the trial. We'll see that there are three categories of judges with quite different rights or the absence of those rights. First, the judge to whom the Constitutional Court has made its decision. He no longer has the right to object by interpreting this law. His cause is solved because that's how you interpret the existence of the objection. The second category, the judges who made the complaint, and according to their complaint, the proceedings are ongoing. He'll sort of end it. In parallel with the process of resolving the complaint, the process of re-examined his election is also under way. So we have two proceedings with the judges who made the complaint. One is the complaint that now exists and is being resolved by the original decision on his election or non-election, and another is the procedure where the first decision is being reconsidered and which again ends with the decision he has the right to object to. By interpreting this law of yours, then, in the case of this judge, we will have a situation that he has the right to two objections, i.e. If it is not resolved under the first complaint, two processes of two different complaints can theoretically take place. The third case is the judges who have not declared their objection. None, i.e. appeal to the Constitutional Court. Under this regulation, when a review of his election is carried out, they will have the right to object, so after deciding by appeal they will have the right to address the Constitutional Court. So, the first judge has no right, the second judge has the right to make another complaint, and I would like to explain to us how you're going to get out of that situation, with that first statement of complaint which is now a complaint and where the proceedings are going. It turns out that the judge who did nothing in the process after his decision not to be elected came to the best position, he did not appeal to the Constitutional Court and he now has the right to object and then to the constitutional appeal. This is one serious problem, and the cause of this problem is the fact that you didn't want to admit that you were wrong and to remove this problem by returning things to the beginning. No, you don't want to admit that you've made a mistake, but you want to sort of question it by getting into an even more complex and difficult situation that you'll probably get out of again when you get the pucks from the European Commission. Here we are listening these days to the Association of Judges of Serbia, the Association of Prosecutors, again appeal to MPs not to vote for amendments to this law. Now the question arises, how did they interpret all this that was happening about reforming and eliminating these problems caused by the amendment of the law. So you've been placed in an unequal position of different categories of judges, you've refused to admit a mistake and repeat the whole procedure over and over again, of course, with changes concerning criteria and needs to define things much clearer and much more concrete and to make it much more concrete and to listen to people in the re-trial process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49464	Four minutes and 20 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. People's MP Milos Aligrudic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49465	Here's to continuing on my colleagues. There's one question that's interesting. That objection you made in the re-election process of the judges, that inter-phase to a judicial high-level decision, be careful, you put that inter-phase in. In the Constitution, truth to the will, it doesn't say it's forbidden. What the procedure will look like until the decision is taken by the judges or by the appointment of judges, is not a matter of interest to the Constitution. It's a matter of law. On the other hand, you're right. When you did this to solve the problem of re-election of the judges behind us, to have a problem with the high council of the judiciary, this is not a transitional methodology that you can solve for that problem. That's where you were wrong. You made that mistake. That you have made a law by which for any future situation or new composition of the High Council of the judiciary pro futuro the rule of internal play before the High Council of the judiciary to work in two stages in so-called. two degrees, and that's one degree, to make a decision, and the candidate says the objection, and only after that, is the decision to become a forceful one and then to activate constitutional provisions on the right to a constitutional appeal, then you would be right. You'd better listen to me, not dodging in there. Then you'd be right. Why aren't you right now? For the simple reason that this transitional solution that you're making, in order to get involved in the judge's election procedure, or the judge's resolution, or to fix it, you won't fix it. There's no way you can do that. There are other solutions that the Society of Judges is looking for, which is that the whole process is repeated, and that's a reasonable solution. It may not be for you, but every normal one is reasonable. The second solution is to introduce a mandatory principle of candidate hearing, then you are introduced as a voluntary principle of the aspect of the candidate. If the candidate wants to hear what he thinks about what's in the papers, he can ask to be spoken to. What if he doesn't? Nothing to anyone. It's not like that. It has to be mandatory, so there must be a call. It's different if he won't respond. Don't put an initiative on him or put an initiative on a candidate like that. The initiative is on the High Council of the Judiciary. That's where you were wrong. If you think something else is written by what I said, then you're in trouble and you can't read what you wrote. The whole problem with you in communication here at all is that you obviously say one thing, listening to you in principle debate, and the other is what it says. How do we explain to you that what they wrote to you and what you signed and handed over to the government and to us here in the Assembly is not what you claim to be. That's the problem. It's an incredible communication problem between us. The objection, therefore, in this crash, like my previous colleagues said, is a serious problem. 13/1 MO/MĆ 12.15 - 12.25 At the same time in that process, which I consider to be a single continent, because that is the only way to experience these provisions, it puts several different candidates in different legal positions immediately. That's a serious problem. And what's unconstitutional, directly? That's what you obviously can't understand. It is that the Constitution guarantees the right to a constitutional appeal. The law cannot, apart from the Constitution, only the Constitution can do so, or the Constitutional Law, and in no way can this law suspend constitutional complaints which are pending and the procedure before the Constitutional Court that is under way, in order to turn them into some kind of objection in the decision-making process. It can't be. That's absolutely impossible. Have you ever heard of such a thing being impossible? Did you graduate from the same college as me? That's not possible. Anything is possible, but it's not possible what you did. You cannot legally suspend a procedure pending before the Constitutional Court. I've never heard of such a thing in my life. Do you understand that?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49466	It's been used five minutes since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49467	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, this proposal by the law of the Government of the Republic of Serbia kind of disabling Mrs. Nata Mesarovic, the chairman of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, since she here in the National Assembly stated in fact that no judge was resolved, but simply in the general election procedure, some judges were not elected. Here, now in Article 5, the permanent composition of the High Council of the judiciary will review the decision of the first Chamber High Council on the termination of the judicial office and of the judges referred to in Article 101(1). The law on judges, in accordance with the criteria and criteria for the assessment of expertise, competence and dignity, will be brought by a permanent composition of the High Council of the judiciary. So, however, some judges have been resolved and you are now trying to solve this problem in a way that on the one hand is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and on the other hand it is the opposite of a good legal tradition. I've heard of the category that by law enforcement an individual legal act is put out of effect. The law is therefore, by definition, a legal act which has a stronger legal force than individual acts, both in relation to administrative acts and in relation to judicial judgments. It's something that's not usually quite common in practice, but it's possible to happen. But I've never been familiar with this phenomenon that by law enforcement, the procedure is interrupted in front of one authority, ending, and then the procedure is transferred to the authority of another authority. It is indeed, as Mr Aligrudic says, a mildly unusual situation and is indeed controversial from the point of view of the Constitution. Especially in a situation where you already have one judge whose constitutional appeals have been decided by the Constitutional Court. We are now practically in a situation where one authority will decide on the same legal matter by means of a legal remedy, i.e. the legal means of one judge, and according to the legal means of all other judges, another authority will decide, because the Constitutional Court of Serbia has decided for that judge, and for all others, whose constitutional appeals the Constitutional Court has failed to resolve, will be resolved by the High Court of Justice. This is something that is not very common in the legal life of a democratic and legal state, that in the same legal matter, in the same legal situation you have decisions from two different bodies. On the one hand, the Constitutional Court, and on the other hand, the High Council of the Judiciary. This really calls into question the concept of human rights and freedoms defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This largely calls into question the legal certainty of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What is not acceptable for the SRS, and we have highlighted this in a principle debate, with which law does the Government of the Republic of Serbia say that it amends any law in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia because it so considers it to be the EU, the European Commission or any other EU body? If I were you, Mrs Malovic, as I am not, I would ask the same EU if they know where the Netherlands is on the map of Europe and do they know where The Hague is on the map of Europe? How is it possible that in front of the EU's custodian's eyes, who shed crocodile tears over judges and public prosecutors in Serbia, they do not see anything happening in The Hague tribunal, Mrs Malovic, that has not even happened in Nazi Germany? That one man, just because he's president of the SRS, is just because he's a free man, because he's a Serb patriot, just because his name is Vojislav Seselj, has been in custody for eight years? There's no such thing in Haiti, there's no such thing as Somalia, and you didn't have it in Gandhi's dictator, Amin Dade. I don't know if such a case existed in Cambodia during Paul Pot, China – Mao Ce-tunga, North Korea, etc. So it's a practice that's completely unrecorded. I think it's a unique case in the analysis of the world's judiciary, that detention in one court procedure takes eight years. Look out, Vojislav Seselj is still a formal prisoner. He is in The Hague tribunal's detention unit. Eight years of proceedings are under way, and eight years from now, the UN tribunal judge cannot make a first-degree decision. Tell me, how is it possible that the EU does not know about the principle of trial within a reasonable period of time, how is it possible that the EU does not know about the principle of fair trial and how it is possible for the EU to tolerate in some cases a drastic violation of human rights and freedom, and in some other situations the fact that one government or one assembly, in their opinion, has violated the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and used this as a means of pressure on the same Republic of Serbia? Does this mean that tomorrow the Republic of Serbia will pass laws just because a proper political order arrives from Brussels, Washington or some other centre of power? The SRS cannot help but wonder, not to ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia, not to ask the same EU, how is it possible that the EU of one murderer, one terrorist, such as Hashim Thaci, has since 1998 shown itself as a fighter for human rights and freedoms, as a fighter against an alleged dictatorial regime, as a fighter for European values? Not only Hashim Thaci, but Haradinaj and many others. What are European standards? What are the European criteria? Do they really care about human rights and freedoms, about justice, or is it simply a facade so that they can put pressure on a state that is not exactly obedient to the extent that they expect it to be? It's unacceptable for the SRS. Let the law be the worst in the world, let it be nothing, and it is really bad, but then say – the law is contentally bad, in practice it has proved to be ineffective, we have problems with the application of the law, we think the law should be changed for the better. But in light of this bill of law and all judicial laws, the Serbian government says that the changes in the law approach because it does so under pressure from the EU, sorry, that means that the Republic of Serbia has lost the character of the sovereign state. Who will believe us to fight for sovereignty in Pristina and Prizren if we lost here in Belgrade? It's a completely insane concept of defence of the state and its vital interests. So there's nothing controversial about changing the law. It is no question that the Serbian government admits that it has made a mistake, but that the Serbian government has been claiming for two years that it has made no mistake, and then after two years it says, yes, we have made a mistake, not because we think so, but because it is said by the EU, sorry, it is indeed a major damage to the Republic of Serbia and its citizens. How could it be that for the same EU people who participated in the DOS in 2000, they were not criminals, they were not mobsters, and after two, three, five or ten years, they became criminals. You know, there's something wrong with those standards. We also pointed out this objection to you in the principle debate, without wanting to be a lawyer for anyone, or the Legion, or the Canet of the Frog, or anyone else, but something's wrong with the state in relation to the world of crime. 14/1 LjS/MS 12.25-12.35 We cannot understand that someone on October 5th 2000 is a national hero because he took pictures with Djindjic, Covic, Vladan Batic, etc. because he cancelled his obedience to Slobodan Milosevic and allowed DOS to take over the government in Serbia in an unconstitutional way, burn this building, burn down RTS, with machines to enter public enterprises, the National Bank, Customs Administration, etc. And it doesn't take three years for that man to become public enemy number one. Don't tell me those who led Serbia in 2003 didn't know what kind of man it was in 2000. How could the former prime minister of Serbia use Stanko Subotic Canet-Zabca's plane, the king of the tobacco mafia, seven or eight years ago, and in the meantime, the man must not give an interview in Serbia today but must give it from his apartment in Switzerland.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49468	People's MP, on the subject of the agenda, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49469	Mrs. Comic, this is the topic of the agenda of all these judicial laws will have to be applied by some judges and some public prosecutors will have to apply, so that a serious fight against organised crime that really poses a major threat to the state of Serbia can be fought, then some criteria must be established. If he's a criminal, he's a criminal whether he's close to this party or not. I'm trying to point out to Mrs. Malovic, that this country has a problem with the fact that there are our criminals and those that aren't ours. Those who are ours, they must not be looked at. You don't think there's any organised crime in Serbia now? He's got it. Some of them are protected. Those who are being investigated, who are being prosecuted, are those who used to be ours, and in the meantime they had a fight with us. Don't tell me Danko Saric could have washed so many billion euros without anyone living in Serbia knowing it for ten years. So, the SRS is saying -- we are absolutely for fighting organised crime, fighting crime and corruption, for judges to have a proper status in Serbian society, but the fight against organised crime must be fought in one fair and fair way. It must not be selective and it must not be politically colored.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49470	The time available as deputy member of the parliamentary group and another minute and 20 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group has been used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milica Radovic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49471	Here's evidence that it's an anti-constitutional provision. You wrote there that the decision of the VSS in this procedure of reviewing decisions, that it, after the complaint or after the expiry of the deadline for the complaint, becomes a forceful one, if it is missed. How is that possible? In my view, that is absolutely not possible, at least not if the provision of Article 148 is strictly respected. The Constitution, when it comes to the dispensation of judges. There's no way she's gonna be right. A legal act, such as the Constitution, which is the highest legal act in this country, establishes the right to appeal for such a decision. No justice. There cannot be justice until the right to appeal is exhausted. How can he object to establishing a judicial decision at the VSS? Where did you hear that? Where did you learn such a thing and where did your associates, who wrote it, learn it? There's no way it's gonna be. In fact, it's an administrative right, it's not the judiciary at all, but you don't know the elements of administrative law. Therefore, either the law or the Constitution may provide for the right of appeal to a certain decision. In this particular case, this right is provided for both by law and by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The decision facing the right of appeal cannot, until the right to appeal is exhausted, to be just, to climb on your head. There's no way you're writing that. I repeat, you were able to predict and object, we could have previously in the law to predict this objection, you didn't remember, okay, no one has a problem with the fact that there is a phase of the complaint in the VSS process itself, etc. That's not the problem. The problem is how you use that complaint and what meaning you give it. You, on the one hand, are suspending complaints before the Constitutional Court, which are under way, which is also legally impossible and, on the other hand, you are using this objection to the construction of a judicial decision before the VSS. It's not there, it can't be. So we asked to delete the word "rightly", what you wrote, because it's absolutely impossible. I am surprised that my colleagues from the Legislative Committee were not all in the assessment that your proposals were absolutely legally impossible. You can't write what you did. You're trying to solve a problem in society by proposing regulations to the National Assembly that is unconstitutional, nakaradic and difficult to implement in practice, by putting in an unequal position of the subjects, and then you'll find yourself in wonder when you have to change this regulation for a while, because this same Constitutional Court is going to say that this is unconstitutional. That's what you're going to face. There's no way to put pressure on the Constitutional Court in such obvious unconstitution. You know very well that in six months or a year from today, the Constitutional Court will suspend these provisions. Then what are you going to do?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49472	One minute and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. MP Srdjan Spasojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49473	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, in support of the DSS amendment, I would like to point out once more, although there have been a lot of speeches in the debate on this bill in principle in the past days. It's just that nothing's good about this bill. Of course, New Serbia's solution, not that it can't support it, but we have one condemning character that can be thought of as a bill like this. It's amazing that they're completely mixed pots. On the one hand, we have a government that's kind of a regulation that introduces something that's not a legal solution. Namely, unselected judges continue to receive personal incomes, although the strict law stipulates that the appointed, elected and appointed persons, when their function ceases, can receive compensation for six months and, only if one of these unselected persons remains six months until retirement, can the deadline be extended for up to one year. Practically, the government has admitted its mistake in these people, because it supports the fact that they are receiving personal incomes indefinitely. Now we've got nonses. On the one hand, we have a crowded Constitutional Court, which has complaints from all these unselected persons who have the right to do so, and we have a government that pays off unselected judges of personal income, since this would not have been resolved for three, four years, the question of when it would have stopped and would it have stopped at all. Now we have a situation where a total legal vacuum appears. Madam Minister, does anyone in the government think about how it is for those people who have been carrying judicial functions in their places for years, who in some of the best years have come into a situation, and I'm going to tell you that they're ashamed to go out on the street. They expect the Constitutional Court to settle something in their favor. It's very slow, and it's not pleasant when you're walking around the streets of the city, where you represent the judiciary, and suddenly these people are out of the way. We now have a situation where the Government introduces additional confusion with such a bill, that something that can be resolved before the Constitutional Court becomes a complaint. 15/1 BD/VK 12,35-12.45 In the debate in principle I said – and if you resolve this by object, there is again the possibility of a constitutional appeal. What if you solve it the same way, and then these people don't exercise their right after two or three years? Will you, at the moment you resolve the complaint, suspend the receipt of personal income, which in continuity lasts? In my opinion, you had no right to do so. You had to stop it, and if someone exercised their right to the Constitutional Court and some regular legal means, complaints, legal remedies, then each individual could file a claim for damages, because it was damaged because in a period of year, two, three did not receive personal income. I guess it's a legal path, I guess. This way, we have a situation where these individuals will receive on a continuous basis personal income, that Serbian citizens must pay taxpayers to someone's mistake. Where's the end? The end simply does not exist, and what is worst, this bill puts the Constitution out of force. That's what's most dangerous, that's what introduces legal uncertainty, that's something for Serbia's citizens at all, and anyone in the profession can't be thrilled, because if this is how it can be done, with a bill like this, then what about basic human rights, what about the rule of law and the rule of law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49474	Five minutes and 30 seconds were used from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? If not, National MPs Milos Aligrudic and Milica Radovic have jointly submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49475	Madam Minister, this is a truly amazing member, but I have to admit he's not as amazing as an amazing member of 6. Now, you're saying, the High Council of the Judiciary in the permanent composition is going to review all decisions made by the High Chamber in the interim composition, meaning its predecessor, of course, to the elected, and to the unselected judges. I have to tell you, we wouldn't mind this member if the whole decision-making process wasn't without huge shortcomings. All of this would make sense if the whole procedure were regulated, but how do we even talk about any regularity in the procedure itself, if the High Council of the Judiciary decides in incomplete composition, and we know that the High Council of the Judiciary was not allowed to be established until the last member of the High Council of the Judiciary was elected? You know very well what I'm talking about. How can we talk about regularity in the procedure itself, when it is clear that certain members of the High Council of the judiciary were in direct conflict of interest when they chose or participated in the selection of their close relatives in the court instance, or in several judicial cases? How is it possible that the work of the High Council of the judiciary was declared a secret, when we know that it is completely contrary to the Constitution itself? What regularity are we talking about here, when we know that the principle of equality was not present, no member of the candidate for judge has been discussed? At the very least, and to say that there was a debate, was there a ranking, were there any rank lists? Of course not. Are the average statistical values of the results of each judge's work even established? Of course not. There was obviously an arbitrary decision here that led us to where we are today. Because of the public, I'm going to explain what I just said. It is the same to you as if this parliament had, say, 50 MPs passed some incredibly bad law, then the ruling majority remembered that after a year he was not good and had to correct it, but this time provided quorum, provided 126 MPs and amended laws that were practically not adopted. He can't even exist. The decision-making process itself, the individual decisions, was so irregular, that here the only solution to the revision is the only solution, and the only solution is that complete with the overall selection process of the unselected judges starts from the beginning. I think you know that very well, but unfortunately, you're not in a situation or an opportunity to give an adequate answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49476	One minute and 22 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49477	Let me get on with this. From this you could clearly see the real reasons why the whole thing needs to be reset, back to the beginning, because the shortcomings in the procedure and the way the whole thing was done in the High Council of the Judiciary to that extent are bad that they have to go back to the beginning. This can be done by means of a legal solution, that's what we told you on the first day, through some lex specialis, which would practically suspend the whole procedure, something like that in the event of the start of proceedings before the Constitutional Court, through constitutional appeals, would be a possible reason for stopping the proceedings before the Constitutional Court. So, it's one thing if everything is reset, so there's no reason to go to the Constitutional Court, and the other thing is if you don't go to that logic, you're talking about some sort of review of decisions, which is an extremely unfathomable term, and then you put in a complaint - which suspends the constitutional appeal. What did you do? Instead of solving the problem, when you already had the will, by solving it in the root, from the beginning, you started to touch the problem, try to solve this problem by introducing institutions into legal proposals that are extremely suspicious or absolutely unconstitutional, some of them, as I guess you were a member of the 3rd round of lawfulness and you came to a dead end. Our proposal is either to withdraw the bill until it is passed, while we have time for such a thing or to schedule a session of the Justice Committee together and to look at what we change here, how else to write these draft laws through amendments, which I don't think is possible anymore, because the debate on amendments has already begun. It's best if you pull them back. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49478	This is the time available for the DSS parliamentary group to be used. Anyone else want a word? If not, MP Vlatko Ratkovic has submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the proposal to add a new Article 5a, MP Jovan Palalic tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 5a be added after Article 5a. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49479	The President-in-Office, a respected minister, is the essence of this amendment to try to make this poor decision in Article 5. In fact, by Article 5, you recognize the essence of your mistake. In addition to how decisions have been made and what legal means are possible against that decision, the procedure is the essence of the perversion of the solutions you have made when it comes to the whole re-election process of the judges. Here you admit that new criteria and criteria will bring a permanent composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, i.e. You admit that it was brought by that composition of the High Council of the Judiciary who couldn't do it and therefore made the choice. All that we have told you during the whole process, the representatives of the European Commission have also told you, but I repeat again, you want to listen to them, not the MPs in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. They told you that objective criteria were not applied, that judges and prosecutors were not given the opportunity to be heard during the proceedings and were not given adequate reasons, that they were appointed without talking to them and applied the criteria based on merits and the total number of judges and prosecutors was not calculated in a reliable manner and has been corrected several times since the re-election was made. In fact, you've been in complete chaos. You have to admit a mistake. Say, we made a mistake, we didn't do a good job, we made big problems in the judiciary, we made big problems for the citizens, we admit a mistake in front of the citizens, we want to bring things back to a full start, and we want to try to make things right. 16/1 GI/MJ 12.45-12.55 This is how you get into even greater chaos, into even bigger problems, you will create even bigger problems for the citizens of Serbia, and particularly for the judges, who should be completely impartial and free and independent to make decisions. You're not doing a good job, you're taking a bad path, you're pulling these laws, and you're doing it from the beginning.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49480	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Milos Aligrudic, Milica Radovic and Jovan Palalic together submitted the 7th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49481	We have amended the criteria for re-election. Of course, this is about a different definition. We had no intention of entering the detailed regulation of all criteria, but here we gave one symbolic meaning to observe, that this matter should be regulated primarily by law. Why do we think that? First of all, because there has been manipulation in the past when it comes to the decision on criteria and criteria for selecting a judge. The Venice Commission agreed on a draft decision on the criteria and criteria for the selection of judges, but after giving its consent, the High Council of the judiciary ruled out the most important part of the draft decision, which was the provision by which the candidate had the opportunity to declare in the re-election procedure the evidence that brought down his expertise, competence and dignity, as well as to present the evidence that was in favour of him. What I'm saying is certainly true, because this has proved to be true in many of the proceedings before the Constitutional Court itself, which, of course, the present Madam Minister knows. So, it was manipulated by the very draft decision on the criteria and criteria for selecting judges in such a way that I said that the harshly abused trust shown by the Venice Commission and how right I am at all at this time shows that you have now, in the light of all these legal proposals in the area of the judiciary, had to write that this time you got the consent of the Venice Commission for what you're doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49482	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49483	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, this law on judges is the strict law of these laws we're talking about. It's a bad start, and it ends even worse in the end. It could be said that the first four provisions of this proposal for amendments and amendments to the laws speak of amendments and additions, and the other four speak of transitional and final provisions. Of course, Article 5 of this law is a disastrous solution and it says that Article 8 is wrong. Very often, the Government abuses Article 196. A constitution that says the law can come into effect eight days ago since its publication. It will neither start to fall nor stop snow because of what provision will be incorporated, but learn once that you do not abuse the Constitution and use the provisions of the Constitution in the way we think when we adopt the Constitution. Here you are saying that this law will take effect the next day from the day of publication, and Article 5 says it will solve the permanent composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary that has not yet been elected. The deadline for resolving complaints is 30 days. So nothing in particular is going to happen here that we respect the provisions of the Constitution, Article 196 of Law 4. Madam Minister, you've seen all the mistakes you've made in judicial reform. Of course, for us, reforming the judiciary is not just a choice of judges, but all these laws that were passed in 2008. You saw you made a mistake. It's not the biggest problem. The biggest problem is that the way you're trying to remove this is an even bigger mistake, which you won't be able to correct later on, and there was a very quality and good way that at the moment of the judge's election, when you sinned in the way you did, that only on the basis of the positive legal rules, of course, the Constitution solved this problem. First the unselected judges filed complaints, then constitutional complaints, and they were resolved, so some were not invited, and some did not have a 20-minute period to explain their view of this problem, which they specifically asked about and why no verdict was carried out within a certain period of time and the like. So limited time and a very short possibility for unselected judges to point out that, but Article 6 here speaks of another danger, that those elected in December 2009 that neither their choice nor their survival in that function is quite certain. This brings one uncertainty to those who share justice, those who have the opportunity to limit one’s freedom. The right to work is one of the fundamental constitutional rights. There were not those who were not chosen here, and you are the complaint that implies the resolution of the higher authority and you are making a complaint which will be decided by the authority that previously decided. Can there be enough security and confidence in someone who has already made such a mistake? If there were only one mistake, it would probably be corrected. There were a lot of mistakes, it's hard to correct them the way you predicted. In fact, you have no good will and no intention of correcting a big mistake. As a citizen of Serbia, I am deeply offended by this finding – this court cannot solve some problems because there is not enough capacity. I've dealt with this problem a little more seriously, and by that, they don't mean that there aren't enough judges in the Constitutional Court. They do not even mean that these Constitutional Court judges are not professional enough or professional. That doesn't matter, we can't get into it, but they think the Constitutional Court can't in full jurisdiction decide on the appeal they had. Whether it was an appeal to the Constitutional Court or a constitutional appeal, whatever. It is not right at all to say outside that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia does not have enough capacity. It's not the biggest problem that you've been listening to some commissions, it's the big problem that you've been giving and deciding on these problems. You don't have to call any commissions. On how to implement the reform of the SRS judiciary, and the wider professional public talked about it, we had to listen a little bit to people who deal with this impartially and not in the daily political sense, I'm not saying that you're looking at this problem, I've always said and I'm saying, you can agree with that, and you don't have to, that making some decisions about selecting some judges has been removed from the High Council of Justice. How are you going to explain the non-election of a judge, I'm not going to speak his name, which one night he joked with the president of The Hague and asked him which state he was from, when he told him he was from Jamaica, he asked him how long it took him to run 100 meters because there are known shortsporters? He made a little joke, that's why he wasn't appointed. Do you need more individual cases like this to be cited? You don't have to. Have you 11 members of the High Council of the judiciary considered it a difficult circumstance that someone who has worked in the judiciary for 35 years will not be elected and accepted? I think there this High Council of the Judiciary is represented by people who have enough expertise, I guess they have little morals and ethics and just one funny question and this one answered that the most sendable question is remembered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49484	Four minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. We have completed our search on all amendments. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in particular in general. We move to the 4th item of the agenda of the search in particular – Proposal for a Law on Change and Complementary of the Law on Public Prosecution You have received amendments submitted by MPs Zoran Krasić, Nenad Konstantinović, Srdjan Miković, Milos Aligrudić, Milica Radović and Jovan Palalić. You also received the Government's opinion on the amendment. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milica Radovic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Milica Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49485	When it comes to the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, I point out the same objections as those I raised in the interpretation of the Law on Judges. It is true that there have been minor deafenings in the election of deputy public prosecutors, and that does not mean that the overall election procedure has been regulated. The same objections, which I was saying, say, that the DRI was incomplete, that there were cases of conflict of interest, that there was no debate in the decision itself, there was no ranking list, decisions were made at secret sessions, which is also contrary to the Constitution itself, and all of this pre-qualifies the overall election process of public prosecutors. In order not to repeat myself, I do not want to talk about every amendment that we have submitted to this article, but I will just tell you that it is also amazing and simply I expect you to explain to me where you read that the constitutional appeal, or appeal made to the Constitutional Court, can have the same legal power as the objection itself. The second time today I call you to answer me because I'd really like you to answer me, because it's about incredible legal inventiveness and creativity. It is also a provision that the procedures under appeal, i.e. by constitutional appeals, will end with the effect of this law that the most harsh insults the Constitution itself and the adopted legal principles that should apply in this country. I think the best thing about what you've suggested today, because of what we're hearing today, what we're listening to not only in this House these days, but in general from the professional public...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49486	Two minutes. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milica Radovic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Milos Aligrudic, Milica Radovic and Jovan Palalic together submitted the 5th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Milos Aligrudic, Milica Radovic and Jovan Palalic together submitted the 6th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49487	Mrs. Komic, how much time do we have left since there are 16 laws left? (President: There are no 16 laws. People's MP, do you know how many laws there are? You tell me first. There are six laws, a common principle search, a search in detail. You are available for 39 minutes and 30 seconds as part of the debate in particular. ) Mrs. Comic, I'm going to expand a little bit, because in all these laws, because of the lack of time because we got the bill in the morning, and we had to submit amendments by 1400 hours. We have submitted to each of these draft laws one amendment, that the laws do not enter into force on the next day of publication, but that they enter into force as prescribed by the Constitution. The constitution is prescribed because the citizens of the Republic of Serbia said so in a referendum, and that is the standard, meaning the earliest of the eighth day since the day of adoption. We have to say that it is completely inappropriate for you to vote at the end of the month before the end of the year all of something urgent, urgent, and urgent so that it enters on 1 January one such provision as Article 9 that tomorrow you will vote, you have 128 or 129 votes, and already on January 1st changes and additions of these laws, and here, specifically, the Public Prosecutor's Law. I need to draw attention to why, in addition to not being in accordance with the Constitution, regardless of your reasoning, you meet only this constitutionally prescribed condition to write some argument, to give some reason, and you think that's enough, because the justification of the reason values most. A strong argument and a strong reason. Mrs. Komic, there is a question here that I think that you who run the National Assembly must take a position in terms of the Rules of Procedure, in terms of the Law on the National Assembly, in terms of the Constitution, because you too are guardians of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Just to remind you, Mrs. Comic, you know that when preparing for a part of the agenda, I use my press clipping and that archive, etc. Mrs. Komic, I also wanted to explain to you that I have been taking stenograms since the end of 2008, since December, when these laws were passed, and I wanted to bring documentation to show that at that time the government representative who was in the National Assembly said that all these changes, all the new laws in the field of justice, were in line with the highest standards that the human mind could have imagined, and that a well-advised and good practice of developed Western European states, that consent to those laws was given by the Venice Commission, and then you smiled and attacked the SRS which was the only and most vocal in these changes and warned you what would happen. You were referring to a judicial reform strategy brought before you. Let's just remind ourselves, since it's written. It's the famous fact that some people don't act here, something God knows what. Now this same Venice Commission gives you full support for these changes, and you are even stronger for the European Commission's position. When it comes to DOS, you know you should never believe it. Now we have proof that the Venice Commission shouldn't be trusted, because they were right for the first time, and now they're right, and that's different. Wait, what are we here for? The guinea pigs? Of what? What focus is being placed on the citizens of RS? Let's get back to this as we think about the rights of judges and prosecutors. You see, that's probably the first year of law school you'd have to master because you couldn't get a second year. I draw your attention again to something that happened in 2008. The judges had this constant function and you said – re-election, general choice. We told you it was an impossible option. It's not about the acquired rights of the NN man who's a judge, it's about the continuity of the judge's office. 18/1 AD/TJ 13.05-13.15 You went over it, so you said that candidate, even though he was a judge, wasn't elected, so you said he wasn't worthy, so it's not this, so it's not that. What about those judgments he's been doing for years? How could he judge a man who wasn't worthy? He didn't lose his dignity the day the commission headed by Bosca Ristic, did he? You know, dignity is lost over a little longer period of time. It's not a momentary matter. It is, as far as the Serbian judicial system is concerned, a long-term patient state. They're all suffering. Why should I convince you of the elemental postulate rights? That doesn't occur to me, because you're not doing this change either to do something normal, okay, in accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with some standards. No, I don't. Your goal is to keep it as high as possible, to keep this process open for a long time. Those who are not chosen will receive wages, they don't care, they don't eat onions, they don't smell onions. It takes them once, twice a year to gather in some amphitheater and hang on to their difficult fate. Those chosen will be held by the head for a large amount of cases, and you will question your decisions whether you have provided similar people in the judiciary. Through this, our judiciary can see, in fact, what this government's relationship to organised crime is. It's not organized crime mask on your face, so picking, etc. It's now pretty much white collars, epoletes, etc. No one would say that man is involved in crime. The evidence gives authority to that effect. A billion and 350 million, according to the government, was washed by Darko Saric. He probably had to have some helpers. You know, when a company takes a loan, so they ask for a mortgage that's being placed over some property, so this mortgage hall is estimated to be five million euros, so over two years, a loan again, and again a mortgage over that hall, it's five million euros. So evaluated. Then now it enters the sales system, the starting price of 450,000 euros. You know, there's no justice system that can wash it so nicely that it can't be seen that some crime was planned here at the beginning. Not to mention "Metals" bank and all those guys from Novi Sad, the province government, etc. That's where I'm gonna stop. You do it yourself. What's going on with our justice system? He's under control. How? Without a national security report, no one could come in short notice. That's what they admitted. That's not mine, that's what those in the judicial authorities admitted, that even those experts were consulted. Strong experts. Then we also have a lawyer lobby that's related to several parties. And they've got it under control. It is true – southern Serbia. It's true. It's a Sabbath. It's true, the Duke. You know exactly who's being delivered to. There's no natural number for the judge to win. No, you know exactly. We know exactly which items have been completed and have come to an execution. It goes back to a retrial to preserve someone's property, and you know exactly what kind of lawyer they're gonna get the case. To preserve that, confusion is being introduced into the entire justice system. Here, as tiny bones, the choice of judges, the choice of prosecutors, the organisation of justice. This is for broad folk masses. This is for a pathetic story that the judge can no longer walk, the one he's not chosen, because he's hurt, for God's sake, etc. Then, from idea to idea, all possible soufflés from abroad appear, as they say it's pro-European, best, super-best. Only when it's done, no matter what Brussels, we've already skipped Great Britain, we're halfway across the Atlantic to New York. This is a beautiful story someone should believe in. But apparently with the judiciary some things aren't done – some things, some other things, this morning I reminded you that there was one weird system of values. Blowers in balloons have progressed. Those who burned down this building have progressed. Those who went to an exotic island to look for money have progressed. Some, in the meantime, had a fight, etc. The judicial system is the last straw of salvation for each individual, because in addition to the guaranteed right of appeal, there is another guarantee that all this will be questioned before an impartial and independent court. Now it's really a devaluation of the legal profession to talk about this seriously with people who don't want to hear it. They care about 126 and then the media starts – we got it, it's best, it's fine, we got a lot of trust. Tell me, then, what trust do you have for a man who's been waiting 20 years to settle a lawsuit? Or, now, let's talk about the trial within a reasonable period of time. What it's worth to be reminded of, when we all know it's not respected. There's just no need to discuss it seriously. Here we just need to take off the mask, see why the Assembly is being harassed, and some, of course, cooperate and why it is being done in December, where some epochal results are announced and, if necessary, there is the European Commission, there is the Council of Europe, there is the Venice Commission, there is GRECO, there are some international institutions that always give consent. Why do they give consent? They are matched by all those who say they are for the EU, for the NATO Pact. Whoever says that on Serbia's political scene is a fan of the West. He can be a murderer, he can be a criminal, he can be a Nero who fires everything in a row, he can be anything he wants, but it's important that they say -- everyone for the EU, everyone's a failure. If they are all, you yourselves are Serbian citizens who have decided to fail. What do we do from the EU, fall apart. We're going to help you in the form of a loan, in the form of something, etc. This is the pro-European road that leads us to Boris Tadic, DOS and all the aggregate state of DOS. I thank you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49488	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the High Council of Justice You have received an amendment submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radeta. You received the Government's opinion on the amendment. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mrs. Verica Radeta, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49489	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this Article 10 provides for the law on amendments to the Law on the High Council of the judiciary to take effect on the eighth day, that day, the next day of adoption. The reasons for the adoption of an emergency procedure for such entry into force are given in the light of the draft law. The law is said to be adopted by an urgent procedure, as its failure to adopt an emergency procedure could result in adverse consequences on the work of the High Council of Justice and Courts in the Republic of Serbia, as well as in order to fulfil the obligations of the Republic of Serbia in the EU accession process. The question to which we should get an answer in this debate is – what adverse consequences can come into force and can happen if this law comes into force within the unusual time limit of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, or within the time limit of exceptions? Are some of the damages already caused by the law that is changing today? Because if the law changes after two years of emergency procedure and should take effect the next day from the day of adoption, out of fear of causing harmful consequences, then the logical conclusion is that some adverse consequences have already occurred. It would be good to hear about the adverse consequences. You say you did not accept, the government did not accept this amendment, as well as other amendments to the SRS, because the opinion that there are particularly justified reasons for the entry into force of the law before the eighth day. So this is an unserious explanation and irresponsible and speaks about the relationship between the ruling majority and the government of the Republic of Serbia to the MPs, above all to opposition MPs who apparently are the only ones involved in the serious work of parliament. Why do we think that's unserious? Because you prescribed a provision from the Constitution, that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says it is possible for the law to enter into force within eight days, if there are particularly justified reasons for this, and then I guess the Constitution thinks that it should be said which are the particularly justified reasons. We have not heard this from you, Minister, nor from the MPs of the ruling majority who voted in favour of this basic law, and certainly for these changes and additions. We should really go back to a period of two years, when around this time of year we discussed the Law on the High Council of the judiciary and the MPs of the SRS had a lot of objections to this law, as well as to the overall reform of the judiciary, in which you swore that something best would ever be implemented in Serbia's territory and today we face facts, facing the truth that this was really very bad and harmful, I would say, judicial reform. You were Mrs Malovic, when two or three days ago, when it was, you spoke in principle in the opening part of these six laws that we could prepare for just a few hours ago because we received them in relation to the beginning of Parliament's work. You said these laws create a normative framework for judicial reform and this is really amazing. You, after two years and after claims all over the public and here in parliament that the reform has been carried out, that it is the best reform, you are just now saying that these laws create normative frameworks for implementing the reform. Now, it's really a question of whether you'll admit that the reform was a failure and that it wasn't actually done with your good intentions, but we've always told you, when it comes to these laws and re-election of judges, etc., that your good intentions, if there is, are a lot of things that you suggest as a minister in the form of legal solutions. What is devastating and worrying, in terms of the SRS, is the reason why this law is passed. You say in the European Commission's 2010 report on Serbia's 2010 progress in the justice system, some aspects of recently implemented reforms have been a serious concern. The election procedure was carried out in a non-transparent way, and the High Judicial Council that conducted this procedure worked in the provisional composition, which means that the profession was not properly presented and that the risk of political influence was high. You are further saying that it is necessary to conduct a review of the decisions taken in the general selection procedure of the judges who have made the first composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. What's devastating and worrying here? Not what is stated as a reason, we know that these are the reasons and we have warned of these reasons even before you entered this adventure called judicial reform. It is devastating and worrying, Mrs Malovic, that you and the public of Serbia have, in every public appearance and for us MPs here in parliament, claimed that there is no mistake, that everything, as you say, is transparent, that everything was in accordance with the law, in accordance with some international standards, etc. We have argued that it is not so, we have warned you and specifically instructed the reasons that it is not so. You did not accept what the MPs of the SRS say, but when they informed you from the European and the Venice Commission that you have indeed made disastrous mistakes, you accept it and introduce it for reasons for the adoption of the law, as the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It's really something that's unacceptable about the SRS. You see, on the basis of which you came to what you didn't believe was like this. We have e-mails delivered to the official website of the Justice Department's e-mail office. He is one of the members of the European Commission, Stefan File, and the other is from the Vice-President of the European Commission of Justice, as it says here, the basis of law and citizenship, Vivian Reding. In these two e-mails, what you wrote in your explanation for not only this, but all the six laws we are discussing today. What's interesting about this? In official communication, you receive letters from the Ministry's e-mail that both begin with "Dear Minister". This is truly incredible and unacceptable, no matter how much Stefan File and Vivian Reding are your friends or not, you can do it in personal communication, but in communication officially, this is at least rude. But that's why you accepted what they gave you as a reason to change these regulations. You have also acknowledged by these laws that there is no legal certainty in Serbia and that the state of Serbia is not a legal state. We've been saying that for ten years, but you didn't believe us. You often laughed, not personally, but representatives of the regime and the ruling coalition often laughed at objections from the MPs of the SRS, but unfortunately, we were right when we claimed that there was no legal certainty in Serbia and that Serbia was not a legal state. The question you did not answer in the opening part, or did not explain in the opening statement, and perhaps you will give an answer – are you aware that these laws will have to be applied retroactively? What will have the consequences for elected judges, re-elected judges and prosecutors, for those who are not re-elected, for the state of Serbia and the state budget from which more than a year's pay is paid, for all those who have not been re-elected, and judges and prosecutors, for all those who have not eventually gone to lawyers and who have more than a thousand? How long is this gonna take? Are you in communication with the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, you as the Ministry of Justice? 20/1 VS/MS 13.25-13.35 Whether those from the Constitutional Court and this lady who will no longer run for president, as we have been informed in the media of Bosa Nenadic, really should not have run, did not and should never have been the President of the Constitutional Court because she made such chaos in the Constitutional Court decisions made by the Constitutional Court, chaos in the political and legal system of the RS, above all I mean the functioning of the local self-government and the fact that she did not adequately respond to the stolen mandates of the SRS by Nikolic and his later formed party, because during the elections they did not have a party, in the elections they went with the SRS programme as part of the SRS candidate and that programme of the political SRS won 78 mandates. But Bosa Nenadic, for God's sake, you and the entire regime didn't think it was because, of course, you had the task of helping Tomislav Nikolic, to form a party as an attachment to the DS today so he would approach informal DS by, say, collecting signatures for petitions, to change the constitution because of an allegedly large number of MPs in the National Assembly, and in fact to change the preamble of the RS Constitution and to write in the preamble that Serbia must accept the existing situation in Kosovo and Metohija. This means the indirect recognition of an independent Kosovo, a false state of Kosovo. And that there were a lot of mistakes in the re-election, to get back to re-election of judges, that there were a lot of prosecutors, that there were a lot of mistakes. We have drawn your attention to all of the specifics and warned you about the re-election debate, which you have not recognised as re-election, but you can see those who are dear ministers, that it was still a re-election, and we have been telling you that from the very beginning, and that it is not constitutional, of course, but you didn't respect it either. You have, again, not only do I think of you personally, but you have personally talked a lot about dignity for performing a judge's public prosecutorial office and somehow got the impression that all those not elected are not worthy of that function. Question, if someone is not worthy of being a judge -- how worthy is he to be an assistant minister in your ministry, from a few days ago, Mrs. Malovic? There are many questions you have not answered not to the MPs of the SRS, but to the citizens of Serbia. There are a lot of problems that have been caused by this so-called reform of yours, and they will only be further in the application of these laws that you will adopt in a day or two. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49490	Dear People's MPs, I'd like to inform you that we will be working today after 1800 hours in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So we'll move on to the draft budget law. The break will begin a little later, once we have finished this item of the agenda, and the word has been given by MP Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49491	Dear Mrs Malovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Madam President, I will use the time that belongs to me as an authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group. Today we are discussing amendments to the law, the same laws that we have adopted, which we have discussed 5. On November 11th and 12th 2008, and these are the stenographic notes he mentioned earlier by his colleague Krasic. However, it was then adopted, in addition to this set of laws and the Law on Seats and Areas of Courts and Prosecutors, which unfortunately reduced the number of courts from some 140 to just 40. Then we warned you of the proposed solutions, the failures, the deadlines that you predicted, and now we see that they have indeed produced devastating consequences for the Serbian judiciary, but there was no hearing from you at that time to accept our proposals. When we talk about the Law on the High Council of the Judiciary, the DSS parliamentary group then tabled 15 amendments, and seven amendments were accepted, which were significantly corrected by the proposed law. From this proposal that you have now submitted, we see that some of the solutions that we proposed in the same text were proposed in November 2008, then you did not accept them, and now from word to word are prescribed and included in this proposal. Let me just remind you that in one Article 14 in attitude one, there was then a proposal that VSS sessions were not public. Imagine if that proposal had been adopted as you suggested, and had not been amended by the DSS amendment, what would it have been like, now that after these changes, we have so many objections to the transparency of this whole process. A short time ago, my colleague Krasic mentioned it, and I found it in a stenogram from that session, when you said in your opening statement – experts from the Venice Commission positively assessed the text of the working version of the law, if also experts from the European Commission who were in Belgrade in April 2008. So, as you said then, they were in agreement with the bill's draft, and what changed in the meantime when you submitted the proposal to the Assembly, we'll see during the debate. I will be free to quote what we said in November 2008, during the discussion of the VSS: "With the conditions for running, candidate for election member of the Council of Judges, there may be any judge in RS, who has served as judge for at least seven years". Then I told you, Mrs. Malovic, that this is an unconstitutional provision, because the Constitution does not foresee a time limit for anyone anywhere, that the judge must perform his duties for the VSS in a certain period. Indeed, you in the proposed law we are discussing today, in the same Article 23, you prescribe a practical amendment that the DSS has submitted from word to word, where it says – candidate for election member of the Council of Judges, can be any judge with permanent judicial office. Example 2: "The DSS has submitted an amendment to Article 23 where I think one position can be added without any difficulty, where we predict that judges should be given the opportunity to run with a number of signatures collected. I think that judges should run for their colleagues, those who deserve, who think they should do this job in a quality and honorable way and should not be held back in that way." Even then you had no understanding of this proposal, and today you propose – as well as a judge who is supported by at least 20 judges, according to the court's kind and degree, and so on. We have put forward a proposal to be ten signatories of this initiative, i.e. to support a particular judge. Example number three: "The Council is making a decision on a single candidate's proposal. I'll remind you again that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is choosing members of the VSS, which means it has a real choice. "We then disputed that the proposed number of members were also elected, because we thought it was a designation, and also, we also said that – the Council proposed more candidates in the event that several judges on a single election list were given about equal, maximum number of votes. We then disputed this formulation and asked clearly – what does it mean to be approximately equal to the largest number of votes, and fortunately, in this bill you mentioned, deleted and accepted our proposal that the Council propose two candidates with the highest number of votes. The question is, what are we doing in this congregation? If it takes two years and a few months for you to accept the proposals put forward by the DSS in November 2008, which represents this House, whether this is just a theater, whether it is important that 150, 120 or 50 MPs sit here tomorrow, if no proposals are accepted, it takes two and a half years to really consider the right way and accept the solutions that the European Commission has imposed on you. The VSS in its work, in the past period, has not proved neither intricacies nor inskill, nor the unworthyness of candidates, but has only voiced doubts that certain candidates do not meet certain conditions. Such suspicious decisions have resulted in hundreds of complaints before Serbia's Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has made some decisions, but based on these decisions, the unselected judges cannot return to work. The government, under pressure from the European Commission of the Council of Europe, the Venice Commission, is again making some rotten compromises, to its detriment, to the detriment of thousands of people who have participated in this whole process and, of course, to the detriment of all RS citizens. The Economic Commission, of you, from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, is asking for an audit of the entire re-election process and will oversee the procedure that you are to carry out. 21/1 DM/VK 13,35-13.45 Many colleagues mentioned, I will read a report from the European Commission on Serbia's 2010 progress relating to the work of the High Council of Justice, which we are now discussing and in general on the functioning of the judiciary after the laws adopted in 2008. "Serbia recorded a slight shift towards further bringing its judicial system into line with European standards, which is a key priority of the European partnership. The total number of judges and prosecutors has been reduced by 20% to 25%. More than 800 of the 3,000 former judges and misdemeanors were not re-elected. The re-election process of judges and prosecutors was carried out in a non-transparent way, putting the principle of judicial independence at risk. The bodies responsible for this procedure, the High Council of the judiciary and the State's Major Prosecutors, acted in a transitional system, which ignored the proper representation of the profession and created a major threat to political influence. In addition, not all members were appointed in any of these councils. The objective criteria for re-election, which were developed in close co-operation with the Venice Council of Europe Commission, have not been applied. Judges and prosecutors have not been interviewed during the proceedings and have not received an adequate explanation of the decisions. The total number of judges and prosecutors has not been calculated in a reliable manner and has been adjusted several times until the end of the re-election. The right to appeal by unselected judges was limited to addressing the Constitutional Court which does not have the capacity to carry out a full review of decisions. No permanent composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors has yet to be selected. The new presidents of the courts have not been appointed. The legal deadlines for their appointment expired in July, or March 2010. No planned new criminal code, law on litigation, law on enforcement and security, as well as law on notaries, have been adopted," I do not see them on the agenda today either. "A large number of pending cases continue to cause concern, especially given the negative impact of recent reforms, on the overall efficiency of the judicial system, the reduction of the number of judges and prosecutors was not based on a proper assessment of the need. A uniform system of organising the work of the courts' headquarters and new judicial units has not been established. There is serious concern about the way recent reforms have been implemented, especially the re-election of judges and prosecutors." Mrs. Malovic, I ask you never to lose sight of that these measures you have implemented during the previous period during which you personally participated as Minister of Justice and as a member of the High Council of the Judiciary have really endangered the independent judiciary in Serbia and that it is necessary to remove the shortcomings as soon as possible. But unfortunately, the only measure that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has taken so far means the only effective measure is the government's conclusion, with unselected judges being paid salaries and social contributions, although I repeat, I said that the other day, in many cities, they were paid for the September month, and for October and November they were already late. The question is really asked – is it possible that someone is considering reviewing the re-election decisions of 1600 judges? We can talk about the continuity of the judge's office and the independence of these people if the people who have already been elected are to go through a certain procedure again. It's not about football judges. There's no corner for the moment. You know how Marko Markovic worked, when an assistant judge doesn't raise a flag so from offside that goal, it comes out on the media, and then that judge gets punished, and the next round doesn't judge but skips to judge in the next round. That can't be done with these judges. These are people who make their decisions by starting with a sentence -- "in the name of the people", not on behalf of the party, on behalf of the political interests, on behalf of the European Commission, or I don't know who. Is it possible that you'll give the High Judicial Council another chance to reconsider his own individual decision, to do it retroactively? I don't know, I was just watching the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and I couldn't find a provision that would make it possible. Indeed, the question arises – do the same ones who made the mistake have exactly to discuss the same cases again and correct these same mistakes? Is it possible that you have proposed a law in which you have already made constitutional complaints and complaints to the Constitutional Court of Serbia to make objections, which directly penetrates the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court of Serbia? Is it possible, by the way, after all these remarks made by the DSS MPs, who, by the way, were the loudest and most valuable in the discussion of the amendments to these laws, that Serbia had 126 heroes who would vote against the constitutional provisions set out in these laws? The DSS strongly condemns these bill proposals, regardless of the amendments whether they will be accepted or not. We simply can't, we don't want to undermine the reputation of Serbia's judiciary and we won't support these draft laws in the voting day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49492	MP Zoran Antic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49493	Mrs. Djukic – Dejanovic, I am reporting for the replica of Mrs. Verica Radeti. I called earlier, but you didn't see me. She also mentioned the Serbian Progressive Party and Tomislav Nikolic specifically, and I think I have the right short term, it won't be problematic and we won't get into a bigger discussion, I hope. May I? (President: If the group is mentioned, the head or deputy head of the parliamentary group may. ) Position 3 allows you, since neither the head of the parliamentary group nor the deputy to interpret it a little more creatively and allow it, because this is not the first time that it has happened. Thank you. [[President: There is really no possibility of me giving you a replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49494	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a review of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on the State Council of Prosecutors You have received amendments submitted by the MPs Aleksandar Martinović and Nenad Konstantinović on the draft law. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search of the bill, in particular. National MP Nenad Constantinovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49495	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, why this bill is passed, or why it will be adopted by an urgent procedure, it is well written in his explanation. It is said, "the European Commission's 2010 report on Serbia's 2010 progress in the judicial system, noted that some aspects of recently implemented reforms are causing serious concern, the election of public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors have been carried out in a non-transparent way, and the State's larger prosecutors who conducted this procedure have worked in the provisional composition, which means that the profession has not been properly presented and that the risk of political influence has been too high". It is then further said that in order to achieve faster Euro-Atlantic integrations, the Republic of Serbia must adopt these changes as an emergency procedure, in order for the Republic of Serbia to gain EU membership candidate status in 2011. It is clear from this government's explanation that the government is working under political pressure from the EU, its bodies and commissions and that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I do not know on whose behalf, has voluntarily given up the political sovereignty of this country. What is not clear, and these are some of the solutions contained in this bill. First, you refer to Article 1 amending Article 23(1). A law on the State Council of Prosecutors that a candidate for an election member of the state council of public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors may be any public prosecutor and any deputy public prosecutor with permanent office. Here one elemental question is asked, since when one's function is calculated. We have had the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia since 1990, which has also guaranteed the continuity of prosecutorial and judicial functions. However, the government and most in the National Assembly decided that the continuity of the judicial, or prosecutorial functions in 2008 was not respected, so we introduced, that is, one procedure that some claimed to be re-election, and some claimed, as Mrs. Nata Mesarevic, to represent a general choice of all judicial holders, including judges, public prosecutors and their deputies. 22/1 MO/MJ 13.45-13.55 Thus, it turns out that under the 1990 Constitution, the principle of continuity of judicial office could not be respected, and according to the 2006 Constitution, it is reportedly necessary to respect the continuity of the judicial function, although the Constitution of 2006 was adopted under the provisions of the 1990 Constitution. There can be no discontinuity of the constitutionality of the judge's, or prosecution's functions. We can think of Slobodan Milosevic, the SPS then, of the Constitution at the time, all the worst, but the constitution was passed in a valid way, he produced his legal fact from 1990 to 2010, so for a full 20 years, no fundamental norms were allowed to change in a civilized and democratic world. Unfortunately, the Republic of Serbia has stepped down for daily political reasons, and we have now come into a situation to change a full set of judicial laws under the pressure of people from the EU. What is also not clear, is it possible that the law should now enter into force the next day of its publication in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia? Apparently, there are, as you say in the explanation, particularly justified reasons, and particularly justified reasons are that all in order, as you say, the Republic of Serbia would gain EU membership candidate status by the end of 2011. Therefore, a constitutional norm must be avoided which says that the law is in effect on the eighth day of its publication, and should now enter the next day from the day of its publication, which points to the only logical conclusion - if the law, God forbid, takes effect on the eighth day of its publication, Serbia will not be able to obtain candidate status for an EU member in 2011, which is, you will admit, a rather inconclusive explanation. What's also unserious, Mrs. Malovic, in this whole State's Council of Prosecutors story, is the following. The law is due to enter into force on the next day of its publication in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia, and the election process of members of the State Council of Prosecutors will take place within 60 days of the date of entry into force of this law. If you are already committed to the job of making Serbia an EU candidate in 2011, then I guess the deadline for selecting permanent members of the State's Council of Prosecutors must be shorter than 60 days. Then the deadlines are improbable. Then it has to be done in the next 15 days. This is what makes sense, and not - the law should enter the next day from the day of publication, which is an unusual situation compared to what it says in Article 196. The constitution, but that's why the deadline for selecting the members of the State's Council of Prosecutors is, I must say, quite comfortable and amounts to 60 days from the day of publication, i.e. the law's entry into force. These two solutions to this bill are not at all compatible. What might represent cream on the cake is next. I don't know if the citizens of Serbia who are following these sessions of the National Assembly can see this. So, at the end of the bill, there is this common form - a declaration of compliance with EU rules. It's an integral part of the bill. So, we are now changing the draft law on the State Council of Prosecutors by an urgent procedure, changing the complete judicial system of the Republic of Serbia by an urgent procedure, allegedly because Serbia would receive EU membership candidate status in 2011. Is that right? That's what you say. Take, then, this statement of compliance with EU regulations and in point 4 of the question - unless there are relevant EU rules to ensure compliance with, it is said - there are no relevant EU rules to ensure that the amendments and additions of the Law on the State Council of Prosecutors are harmonised. Now you tell me, where the common mortal, which I belong, can read where are these European standards related to the functioning of prosecutors and their deputies, if there are no EU regulations? Where is this "aki communitre", that common European law, if not in EU regulations? Now one fundamental question is being raised here - are we changing this because our laws are not in line with EU standards, so that you can tell us in the end - that in fact there are no standards, that is, there are no EU rules with which we need to comply with this law? If it does not take effect the next day since the day of publication, we cannot be candidates for EU membership in 2011. So, Mrs. Malovic, total cacophony, total confusion, total chaos. It turns out that the EU is a day-to-day policy topic here, we don't know what else to say, so we're changing the law and it has to come in the next day, so we can join the EU in 2011, and then when you have to say what is the EU regulation that requires us to change this law in an emergency procedure, you say - so there is no such regulation. In general, where there are, where are these standards that say the judges are elected, how are the prosecutors elected, how are the deputies elected, how does the High Council of the Judiciary function, how does the State's Major Prosecutors operate? Where can an ordinary man in Serbia read those standards if there are no EU regulations? So either these regulations exist, and then you won't say what the rules are, or those regulations don't exist at all, but then it's pointless to change the law because it's the EU. Something in that argument of yours, why an emergency procedure must literally change all judicial laws, is not good. That's what's wrong with this bill and with all the other bill proposals we've been discussing these days. I simply cannot help but feel that the government of the Republic of Serbia is making the same mistake it made in 2008. We in the SRS have the view that you, in fact, as well as in 2008, don't actually know in 2010, what the ultimate goal of this adventure is to reform the judiciary. What is this goal that you want to reach? I don't think that idea was present in your heads or in 2008, and it certainly wasn't there in 2010. What it says in the text of the proposal is absolutely incompatible with its reasoning, and the most incompatible statement of compliance between this regulation and all other judicial regulations with EU rules. Because you don't understand in your head what you really want to achieve we have this chaos normative that is contained in the laws, or in the bill. So, do you want an effective judiciary, unsumptive, honest, professionally, so whatever the EU thinks about it, or do you want a judicial system that is compatible with supposed European standards that we don't even know where they're writing about right now, and no matter how the judicial system really works? Do you want the essence to be fulfilled or the form to be fulfilled? If you want the essence to be fulfilled, then it is not necessary, Mrs Malovic, to call on the Venice Commission, neither the European Commission, nor any other EU body, because the EU is one of the best examples that certain state institutions should not function. Don't tell me you don't know how they work now, say, the justice systems of one Romania and Bulgaria. Don't tell me that Bulgaria's justice system is compatible with the United Kingdom's legal, or judicial system. It's not safe. Take any list of corrupt countries and you will see that Bulgaria is somewhere near us, although it is, and we are not an EU member. So there are no magic sticks and there are no finished solutions. You are mistaken if you think joining EU membership is a cure for all our problems. It's not. But after all, you're admitting it yourself. Don't, and this is what the SRS is telling you this time, that you're doing nothing just because the EU told you to do it, but you're doing it the way the interests of Serbian citizens do. It's fairer to say -- we made a mistake in 2008, now let's try to correct it, than to say -- it was all right, but we still have to change the laws because the EU ordered us to. What's it gonna be, Mrs. Malovic? Who will bear political responsibility if Serbia does not get EU candidate status despite these urgent changes in judicial laws in 2011? The government in Serbia has been bidding with our EU membership since 2000. In 2004, Boris Tadic pledged 2007 as the year of EU accession. So when he won 2008, he said in 2012, we are entering the EU, so that he would now come up with some brilliant strategy that we are supposed to be an EU member by 2020. So let's not be serious. We have no chance of becoming an EU member by 2020. First, the EU does not want that, it has enough problems of its own. What do we do with our problems? Secondly, it is pointless and not in accordance with the principle of political sovereignty of any state that our laws change because that is what some Venice Commission thinks. Excuse me, where does the Constitution of Serbia say that the National Assembly makes laws if they were previously blessed by the Venice Commission? It doesn't say anything. What is the authority of this Venice Commission? 23/1 LjS/TJ 13.55-14.05 Did they show any legal knowledge? If there is a country where they showed, tell me what that state is called and I'll try to see what they did capitalally for that state, and then we'll see if we in Serbia should respect the findings of the Venice Commissions or not. So the 2008 laws were bad and we told you that in 2008. These 2010 laws are bad, but they are bad not because they do not comply with EU rules, which you yourself acknowledge do not exist, but are contentally bad, normably bad, materially. There will be problems with their application. That's what's wrong with these urgent amendments to the law of justice. You quickly entered the justice reform in 2008 and now you're trying the same way to get out of the problems you made two years ago. Like he wasn't good that time, he's not good either.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49496	Before I close the search, I give my word to the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49497	Dear Presidents, honourable Members of Parliament, I thank all the MPs who participated in today's debate and those who have tabled their amendments. I'll try to answer some of the questions that were asked at today's session. As for the law on the execution of prison sentences for organised crime, I agree with certain discussions, that this law is of technical character, and I am glad that today's session has raised a broader question about the situation in prisons. The fact is, there's a lot of overcrowding in prisons. I'll tell you that the current number of convicted and detained persons in Serbian prisons is 11,500, which is a certain concern, but, on the other hand, within the Justice Ministry and the Department of Criminal Sanctions, we're trying to make a certain strategy that will contribute to prison redundancies. It is mentioned here that by an emergency procedure last week, a law on the execution of criminal sanctions has been passed and it should contribute to at least partially achieving the steps we have foreseen in the strategy. We've done a lot of work to introduce alternative prison sentences. Trust services have been opened, contracts with numerous cities in Serbia have been concluded, and I hope that the system will continue to liven up. It's the same thing if we talk about electronic surveillance, when it's meant for such a way of executing a prison sentence. Such a system has been released, there are already first decisions made in this regard and we expect these days to start applying such decisions. As for the very law that lies before you today, on the agenda of this respected home, it refers to two amendments. One is about not taking consent to work in a special department. The fact is that it is not very popular to work in Serbian prisons, there is also a reason for that. It primarily comes down to the reasons of material nature. Prison employees are in the civil servants' system. I agree that they may not be adequately paid, even under the Criminal Penalty Administration. We try to increase their personal income or salary as much as possible, as far as possible, in terms of finance. The second amendment refers to the recording of property data. You know for a fact that the Anti-Corruption Agency collects such data from public officials. This does not apply to public officials but to employees and such records will be made by the Criminal Penalty Administration. If there are problems or there are certain doubts, a check will be requested from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance. You'll agree with me that it's about employees who are in one specific regime and there should be checks for them. There was a question about moving the prison to Panchev. It is in the plan of the Ministry of Justice for both the Panchev prison and the construction of part of the prison in Kragujevac and the construction of a brand-new prison in Medvedja. Construction will be largely realised from the loans we received from the Council of Europe. I expect you to approach the realization next year. As far as the Law on Court Orders is concerned, a question has been raised here and criticism has been given regarding the urgent application of this law, as well as other laws relating to the judiciary. At the very beginning, I will say that I am very careful about the urgent application and I always have in mind when I propose it, not only for the laws, but also for the sublaws, the decision of the Constitutional Court that has been made regarding the urgent application of one law. I'm trying to make sure there's really a reasonable reason when an emergency application is required. As far as the Courts' Law is concerned, I agree with you that from the arguments we have given you, I do not see it, and I take that responsibility upon myself, but I will try to explain it to you. It is about harmonising with the Budget Law and applying at all a judicial budget that cannot begin from 1 January 2010 because there are no technical means to be provided at the level of the High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors. Why did we propose September 1st? The reason is that we want to convince everyone in the next European Commission report, as well as the citizens of Serbia, that we really want the judicial budget to be in the hands of the judiciary. It is my pleasure to be a minister of justice in this form, but with our knowledge and experience, we will always stand at the disposal of the judiciary. We intend to propose a law on criminal proceedings, which includes additional funds and careful analysis of application. With regard to the law, but also with regard to other laws, we will also be at the disposal of the High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors. As for the urgent application of the other laws, it is our idea that all the other issues and all the doubts that exist in the general election process be removed and that Serbia acquires candidate status from next year. 24/1 BD/MC 14.05-14.10 It is not only the government's interest, it is the interest of Serbian citizens. As for the other laws and laws on judges and the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office and on the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, I would not agree with certain objections that we were fleeing the public debate. I don't think we ran away from the public debate and the fact that in this distinguished House in early December, a special session of parliament was held in favour of this claim. I've often heard different interpretations here, opinions of the Venice Commission. I must say that in the opinion given by the Venice Commission on the Regulation on criteria or criteria for the selection or promotion of judges, public prosecutors and the president of courts nowhere stood the question of interviews. I'm not saying it's not a European standard. I think it should be applied, but for the sake of proper informing Serbian citizens, I want to say that it did not exist. On this occasion, I would like to read you a piece of the report, part of the opinion that the Venice Commission has put on these draft laws, especially on the proposal for a law on judges. "The proposed changes and additions regulate the right to reject the decision of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. The deadline of 15 days is foreseen for the submission of such an objection. The Supreme Judicial Council's landing in connection with the complaint has been regulated. The position of the 4th draft law provides that the decision to resolve from the post is final. That provision is in itself in line with European standards." It is further said: "The possibility to reject the objection and confirm the decision to cease office in light of the principle of independence of judges who had a permanent judicial post before the general election, held in December 2009, continues to leave room for further discussion or even legal debate. It all depends on the fair and transparent procedure and the criteria to be applied." The following points are concluded: The draft amendments to the Law on the High Council of the judiciary and the Law on Judges are generally in line with European standards. The draft judicial law package is a step towards resolving a long-running debate over the general election of judges and public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors, held in Serbia in December 2009. Draft supplement of Article 57. The Law on Judges on the possibility of dispensing judges who had permanent judicial office still leaves room for further discussion or even legal debate. The permanent composition of the High Council of the judiciary should be applied by this member with great caution and respect for European standards that ensure a fair and transparent procedure. That's exactly the answer to the question - whether and where the objection is intended. So from what I've read, you can see that the position of the Venice Commission is that it is in line with European standards. Of course, in order not to propose something here that would not be in line with the Constitution of Serbia, and the word about it cannot either this respected House of Justice give, nor the Ministry of Justice, but will give the Constitutional Court, and I am sure it will confirm that it is in accordance with the Constitution. With regard to the obligation to declare, of course, that it is not the volunteerism of the High Council of the judiciary whether or not it will invite someone to talk, and the way it will do so will be worked out in a sublegal act or, more specifically, a rule on criteria and criteria that, on the one hand, material regulation, and on the other hand, and a procedural regulation. I cannot agree with statements that there was no ranking list during the general election. For the first time, the choice of judges who came from the order of associates was based on the criteria developed in the Regulation. Also, I cannot agree with certain remarks that I must say are for daily political use, that the decision was taken from the High Council of the judiciary to some other institutions or that the opinion of the BIA was used. In the end, surveillance on this issue was done by both the Citizens' Protector and the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection, so their reports show what has been found. In the end, I would say that all these laws should serve to remove all the doubts that exist in the general election procedure. As a member of the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, I have no problem with the decisions we have made and voted for, and I have no problem with these decisions being changed once again by another body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49498	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We'll continue our work at 1600 hours. I thank Mrs. Minister and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49499	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Sorry I'm late for 13 minutes. Waiting and delay is not up to the MPs, but it is up to article 27 and a desire to continue parliamentary practice and to wait for the delay of a member of the government, which is now entering. Welcome, Finance Minister Diana Dragutinovic. We can get started. People's MPs are getting "and the government's opinion"? "Please don't throw away. I also ask you to look at the mail in your MPial clubs, if it is not already on benches in the National Assembly building and I ask you not to interrupt the National Assembly session because the right to receive all information based on members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly implies and the obligation that all members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly be respected. So this session wouldn't have started in the afternoon if the government's report hadn't been delivered to you. If the MPs have the will to earn and violate the Rules of Procedure, I am at your disposal to violate the Rules of Procedure and my obligation to apply all the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform you that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that the President of the National Assembly, with regard to the search in particulars of the Bills referred to in points 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13 of the agenda, besides the representatives of the motions of Diana Dragutinović, the Minister of Finance and Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Science and Technology, invited the sittings to attend and Vuk Djokovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Radina Todovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Ružica Stojljković, Assistant Minister of Finance, Natasa Kovacevic, Assistant Minister of Finance, Zoran Milosevic, Assistant Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Ljiljana Petrović, Head of the Group at the Ministry of Finance, Bogdan Popović, Special Advisor of Finance and Support Mirkovic, Assistant Minister of Finance, Independent at the Ministry of Finance. We move on to a search in the details of the 7th item of the agenda - PROPOSAL OF THE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF SREBIA FOR 2011. One year, with the proposals for a decision to give consent to the financial plans for 2011. The Republic Fund of PIO, 2) of the Republic Institute of Health Insurance, 3) of the National Employment Service You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Božidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Oto Kišmarton, Milan Knezević, Sašak Maksimović, Zoran Žaljić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borist Pošurić, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Toljović, Dragan Čaljović, Dragan Čalić, Dragan Šormaz, Riz Halima, Olena Paputić, Konstavić, Marina Toman, Milaražak Bja, Dragan Štović, Dragan Štović, Dragan Štović, Žačanović, Žažović, Žažović, Žrić, Žaržović, Žaržović, Mirkožović, Miržović, Dragažažović, Miražović, Miražović, Drag, Drag, Dragan, Dragan Žažović, Dragan Žažović, Dragan Žažović, Dragan Žažar Žažktić, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag of Slav, Drag, Drag, Drag, Ž. You've received the Government's opinion on the amendments. National MP Stefan Zankov, in writing, withdrew one of the two same amendments that he submitted to Article 7 of Split 3. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's Parliament of the Faith of Radeta wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49501	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Comic, you violated the 107th and dignity of the National Assembly by misleading the public, saying we received the government's opinion on the amendments submitted to the draft law on the 2011 RS budget. So the MPs didn't get the government's opinion. The government's opinion was given to the Presidency and the heads of parliament's groups received, but of course we do not have the opportunity to get acquainted with the government's opinion, given that it is a large material, and we do not have the obligation to copy it individually, but, as you said at the beginning, respect for parliamentary practice and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we cannot begin and we should not start discussing amendments to the draft law on the RS budget until we have the opinion of the Government. The government's opinion certainly depends on the debate on the amendments because it will not be the same during the debate if some amendments are accepted by the RS government or if that is not the case. So we understand that you are in a great hurry, that long ago deadlines were due in this House to bring a budget for next year. Your promise to do it tomorrow, and that's within the deadline, is also a public deception. Will you finish and when, we will see, but the fact is that legal deadlines and deadlines are related to our Rules of Procedure long ago and that we ask you most nicely to... . [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49502	Two minutes. Thank you. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. A copy of the report delivered to the MPs' clubs. If you have any problems in the work of your MP club, please contact the Secretary-General, and now I ask you not to abuse the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. At 15.50, it was delivered to all the MP clubs and your desire to abuse the right given to you by the Rules of Procedure to get word and speak of injury is not at the same time the possibility that you are misleading the public and making statements that do not stand. The People's Messenger, the Prophet of Radeta, throws me a curse. Please refrain. (The People's MPs of the SRS are getting it. Please don't throw it away. National MP Zoran Popovic also throws out MP Sulejman Spaho. People's MP Suleiman Spaho continues to throw away, it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I'm warning you now. The Rules of Procedure apply equally to everyone. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic has a word. He wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49503	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS really doesn't think there's any need to heat up the atmosphere in the National Assembly, but Mrs. Comic is simply wrong. Article 164(1) has been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the legislator of the law or the authorised representative of the legislator and the committee responsible shall consider amendments submitted to the draft law... (President: National MP, Article 164 cannot be harmed during the session and just before you asked for a word. Can you just tell me where it says it? (President: You and I both know that. It says in an article that you are trying to quote by using two minutes to abuse the provisions of Article 103, and where you and I both know well that Article 164 cannot be injured during the session in the search in particular. Thank you. ) Can I finish my presentation?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49504	Not with article 164. Thank you. The People's Parliament of the Faith of Radeta wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49505	Mrs. Komic, you have violated article 107, but this time on a second basis, so you do not stop immediately. You have violated the dignity of the National Assembly and my personal dignity. A moment ago, in front of the public of Serbia, you said that I had thrown a curse. I'm asking you best to also publicly apologize, because I've never been heard from in my life that I've cursed anything, let alone done it at the National Assembly Hall. Did I throw something or didn't you always use the Rules of Procedure? You don't just use it, you use it often as far as the SRS stand and abuse it, but you have a knife, it's a cake, so you can do whatever you want. I wouldn't intervene if you'd given me any warning, a sentence in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, even if it were abuse, but I insist on the public, Mrs. Comic, to say that you didn't hear me swear because I didn't swear. I haven't said any swearing or throwing, or passing. I don't know why you're looking at me like that. If you have indeed heard, say what you have heard. All the colleagues who sat around me heard how they reacted because I didn't say a curse. It's not my manners, it's not my education. I repeat, in the hall as many MPs as there are now, we're seeing each other on breaks, etc., let someone say if they've ever heard of the Radeta lady cursing in her life. It's simply not a way of communication that I use or private, let alone doing this extraordinary, as far as I'm concerned,...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49506	Two minutes. Thank you. There is no violation of dignity, and I am not allowed by the Rules of Procedure, but I do not allow myself to repeat what you have thrown out of the bench. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49507	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 103 has been injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The MP shall have the right to orally point to an infringement in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly if he considers that he is not in conformity with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure and has been done at the session of the National Assembly which is under way and immediately after the injury has been done. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, nowhere in the Rules of Procedure stands which members of the Rules of Procedure the MP may indicate that they are injured and unable to do so. What Mrs. Komic is doing is simply the opposite of both the letter and the spirit of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Each member of the Rules of Procedure at the meeting of the National Assembly may be injured, and the MP has the right to point out any of these injuries. A practice that allegedly some members of the Rules of Procedure cannot be injured is the opposite of the rules of procedure and is contrary to good political practices and the normal functioning of the Serbian parliament. Mrs. Komic, we are telling you and that is true, and MPs from your parliamentary group can also tell you that not all MPs have received the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted, and it is contrary to the Rules of Procedure to tell... (President: People's Parliament, you are repeating a complaint about the violation of the Rules of Procedure which has already been made. )......................................................................................................... and that every MP did not get the government's opinion. (President: People's Parliament, you repeat the objection already made by the same member you are calling, which is forbidden. ) You did not allow me to finish my exposure after my previous injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49508	People's MP, you can't abuse the right to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. That's what taking care of the order. Thank you. There's no breach of Article 103. You got your word and you practically gave an explanation can talk about the injury that was done right before he asked for the word. National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49509	I want to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure in relation to article 107 and Article 103 because you said in your explanation to the previous speakers that they had made a lie about the fact that the MPs had received the government's opinion. Prosperity Club Forward Serbia received one single copy, and the other MPs 21 did not. Only the head of the parliamentary group has won and we are unable to get acquainted with the government's opinion on the amendments we have submitted. You are not allowed to state the truth that we have received material that we do not receive that is necessary for us to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49510	People's MPs, you can't get into the Parliament Club at the same time and you didn't get it. He can't do both at the same time. So either you got into a parliamentary club or you didn't get a violation of a member of the Rules of Procedure that requested the delivery of the report was not made. The number of copies copied is something I didn't mention, and what you're saying in your provision. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49511	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of the 27 has been injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Nowhere in the Rules of Procedure states that the obligation has been fulfilled by the fact that a copy of the Government's opinion has arrived at the Parliament club, but every MP has to get the opinion of the Government, as every MP must also receive a bill sent by the Government in the procedure of the National Assembly, and there are currently no conditions for the continuation of this session, because not every MP has received a direct opinion from the Government on the amendments made. The amendments were submitted by MPs as individuals, not by parliamentary groups as collectiveities, and not by the terms of the Rules of Procedure, which says that every MP has the right to receive the government's opinion on his amendment. Each parliamentary group received a copy of the government's opinion, and I think it would be good for the political correctness to also be the head of the largest parliamentary group to confirm what we're saying, because this is absolutely true. If it is true that the government's opinion is being copied and that in 20 minutes we will all get it, then it would be good to give a break of 20 minutes and at least formally implement what it says in the Rules of Procedure, which is that every MP has the right to personally and directly familiarise himself with the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49512	Thank you. There is no violation of the Rules of Procedure, but you have quoted a member to whom you refer and repeat the provision. Your will to speak of Article 27's injury is your will, but Article 27 has just been fully applied, so that the session can normally run. National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49513	I point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure and I risk you giving me a warning. I truly respect your speech skills and your phoning to cover up what you can't hide. Explain to me, how physically can 22 or 55, or 60 people, or 10 sit around one opinion and do their job as expected? Which means that an opinion has been received in one copy and in the number of copies for each MP, it really cannot be treated equally. I'm sorry if I misused the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49514	Yes, of course, because no member of the Rules of Procedure has been mentioned. Since Article 27 serves that, not only is the chairman of the old order, but also that he makes sure that all MPs are made clear how certain parliamentary provisions are used, if they do not already do so in their parliamentary clubs, then next time we can talk about the instruction you really want, talking about how many copies there are or don't exist. The injury that has been committed has been done that no government report has been delivered. He's been delivered. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the 1st Amendment were submitted by the Committee on Finance. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Rade Obradović, then MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49515	I will use the time of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group. At the very beginning of the debate in particular, you said the debate was eight minutes late. You don't need to be a pettyr. What's eight minutes past the month and a half of how late the budget was under the Budgetary System Act. If the budget was to be adopted 10 days ago, exactly 12 days ago, and today it's 27 and we're still discussing and we don't know when it's going to be adopted, is there any other explanation? The amendment to Article 1 has been proposed by the ruling majority. It is an amendment, to be clear to all of us, the budget represents a set of revenue and expenditures from the budget go by following laws that define budget filling. Laws that define taxes and certain other rates. It should be about every important thing, and one of the tax laws is supposed to change the tax on hotel services, there should be serious analysis behind that change, so before tourism is one of the country's development opportunities, at least that's what this government tells us. Some of the ministries are investing the largest amount and the largest funds in tourism. Then it turns out that VAT on tourism and tourism services rises from 8% to 18%. This amendment proposes abolishing, i.e. retaining the old tax rate. Is there any comment there? Was there any serious preparation for the proposal to raise taxes on hotel services, or is there any serious analysis to abolish the tax? What do you say further about the budget, about the changes in tax laws, about anything so important that one day we can raise, another day to reduce? If the budget was so late and so many days to reach agreements within the coalition, if it was more than 45 days late to make the necessary arrangements, then in this way access to such an important sector in Serbia, then you should not be surprised at what is happening in Serbia. We don't need to be surprised by the number of unemployed. We shouldn't be surprised by this kind of public debt. We don't need to be surprised at anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49516	Two minutes and 35 seconds were used from the time of the deputy president of the parliamentary group. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49517	Mrs. Komic, I just have to tell you, I'm not going into the content of this amendment because we don't have the government's opinion on this amendment. But, well, it's nothing weird. You know, he's in a hurry here as soon as he gets into the Atlantic Ocean without even thinking. I have to distract you, despite my best wishes to see what the government's thinking is, I can't see the government's opinion. I'm supposed to be fighting someone in this room, like Hope Kolundji, to get that one single copy of the opinion report. Of course, I'm different from the Democrats. I respect women and I think they should work for 33 years, not 38 years like these Democrats of hers. Mrs. Comic, I'm still president of some financial committee. Since we have a big problem with that committee, because the nine who represent most of these parties that are in power, it's hard when they can get together. With great effort, I decided to hold that session whenever they say they can get together. Believe me, and it's very difficult. Today is scheduled at half-one, allegedly, that session. I had to do this job. Mrs. Comic, can you hear me? I'm so glad you can hear me, because we're not talking about imaginary numbers, we're talking about very specific things, you know? Since I had a lot of work to do, to defend the amendments here, I left at half past one. Mrs. Comic, can you hear me? And I didn't find anyone in the O.R. Then I heard the amendments were submitted. Of course, three amendments to the Finance Committee. I have no intention of conducting an investigation, let me tell you. But there is also a council signed by Zoran Krasic for the session of the Finance Committee, and I saw a list of those who signed that they were present. It's eight, you know? You know, the quorum is nine. You here with 126 votes can turn into me making it up. You can do anything, you know. But there's one thing you can't do to improve a 1% better life for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That's your problem. You can be here with us to prosecute whether there was an opinion or not, whether it's delivered here, whether it's by the Rules of Procedure or not, but you can't provide for a better life. Because of this breakthrough of a better life, which I hope there is a space, there is room for better citizens of the Republic of Serbia to live, sit here constantly and I must tell you that I am very pleased to eat your soul. With great pleasure. But you should know, this is the most brutal form of forgeries. I don't need a day to vote. I don't even need satisfaction whether I'm right or wrong. Serbian citizens know very well who is right.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49518	It's been used for three minutes since the parliamentary group's time. Since MP Zoran Krasic has claimed that the procedure, in particular the debate, contains an amendment, does the MP mean this amendment to Article 1 or any of the amendments? (Zoran Krasic from the post: Three amendments. () Three amendments in total, including this one? Do you mean this amendment that is currently under investigation, Article 1 and 2? (Zoran Krasic of the post: total of three amendments. I'm not asking you to talk about it in voting day. ) Therefore, given that MP Zoran Krasic said that the Committee on Finance in its decision to submit three of the amendments, one of which is currently the subject of the search, was not the majority of the Committee members, and the total number of members of the Finance Committee was 17, which means that at least nine MPs had to attend the session, and pleaded – for, against and abstention, that the decision could be made. I order the secretary-general to submit a report from the quoted session of the Committee, along with a stenogram of the presentation of MP Zoran Krasic. Then I ask that the Legislative Committee of the National Assembly be made known whether there are conditions for these three amendments to be in the procedure or not, or whether they have been adopted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and with the law. 28/1 MP/LjL 16,40-16.50 What I can inform you so far is that a report has been delivered by the Secretary General, with signatures, on Day 27. 12, when the 66th session of the Finance Committee was held. Is this a session to be called by MP Zoran Krasic or not? Yeah. So the following MPs attended the 66th session of the Finance Committee: Purić Mihajlo, Vukković Milan, Jovanovic Branislav, Kasalović Zoran, Ljiljak Branka, Pastor Balint, Divac Zarko and Jerkov Aleksandra. This is the information I have from the secretary. I'm sorry, and Vlajko Senic. Vlajko Senic has an unusual signature, so he was skipped. Please forward this list to the Secretary-General and establish and be without any doubt that the three amendments submitted by the Finance Committee have been submitted in accordance with the Constitution and the law. Anybody else answer for a word? There's a word from MP Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49519	The Honorable Presidency, Madam Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting as an authorised representative, and I will use the time that belongs to the authorised representative. I would like, above all, to report to the public and to the agricultural producers under this proposal of the Finance Committee, namely this amendment submitted by the Finance Committee. I would like to protest the Committee's decision not to take into account the debate that was held here in the tide and demands of agricultural producers, and it has just been an opportunity for the committee responsible to propose to the National Assembly, and hence to be adopted, to increase subsidies for agriculture. I think it's really extremely inadmissible to you, the representative of the ruling coalition, because it's just amazing that for these three years you've forgotten what you've promised the citizens, above all to the agricultural producers, and that's an agrarian budget of at least 400 million euros. I simply can't believe that all of those requirements, I read right here in the discussion at the tide which is all associations and associations of agricultural producers, it's all the biggest ones, and they explicitly had a requirement that the agrarian budget of this year be at least 40 billion dinars or at least close to 5% of the total budget, that you would apriorize yourself and not take advantage of this opportunity, and that's the proposal of the Finance Committee and rerouting certain budget items. This way, I would also like to express a personal protest, as the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, because I have just proposed on the Committee itself that the Committee propose an amendment which the Committee on Finance would consider and accept, which is an increase in the funds of subsidies in agriculture. However, unfortunately, neither on the Committee on Agriculture, Revote, i.e. Most of the votes of the ruling coalition MPs have not been accepted by my proposal, and this opportunity, which was given by this amendment to the Finance Committee, has not been taken advantage of the possibility of increasing the agrarian budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49520	It was used for three minutes by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. In fact, MPs Zoran Masic is an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, Advanced Serbia, for this debate, in particular, on the draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Is anyone else answering for a word after the amendment to Article 1 which was submitted by the Committee? National MP Ivan Andric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49521	I'll use the time of the authorized representative, too. Since this is one of the two things or three that has been delegated by the ruling coalition as the most important thing for the budget, it's an increase in VAT to hotel accommodation or to hotel overnights, I'd like to say a few words about it. In spite of how the government managed to change its mind within three days of that emotional defense from that measure to this measure to accept it, we do not know how the circumstances have changed since then, but what I would like to say is that, in our opinion, there is one political manipulation. Now if this amendment was adopted, since it was a major public objection, then now the budget is good. I guess that's the idea. I must also say, on behalf of the LDP parliamentary group, that I should express one extreme disdain over this manner of talks between the authorities and the opposition whose purpose is to parliament on what is popularly said to be the most important law that the Assembly makes every year. So something like this is unacceptable. We have now received the Government's opinion on the amendment, we haven't received it before, as it is said, one copy, we have the same 12, 13, we can't just throw ourselves in here as we discuss the amendments, just now we've got it. There was no reason not to wait another ten minutes. But it's not our complacency to work on what we have to do, and I'm guessing all MPs to the opposition. It's about an atmosphere that monitors the adoption of the budget. Our position as finance minister was clear to us by now, but we're no longer clear. So, is this agreement made in the ruling coalition around these three measures that the government itself has run for public, which is an increase in VAT per night, an increase in VAT on computers and on southern fruit? Is that deal made or not? If so, how is it possible that after only three days, that agreement is changed and is it so possible that the entire budget is made up of such things that it is possible for today to be one, tomorrow the other? If that's the case, if that's the situation, what do we really think it is, about putting together this budget, then I think it's high time that Serbia's citizens really pictured themselves over their future next year. If it's possible to change the items of the budget, that it doesn't matter at all who's writing, or who's signing, or whether the MPs got an opinion, we got the budget from a month and a half late on Sunday night, then there's no debate here. It was headed at one general political level, so it wasn't enough for the ruling coalition to be consistent and at least show us here that there was some political idea about Serbia's future next year, but half of the ruling coalition that had friends who had sold computers asked to return VAT to computers, half of those who had friends who had hotels, they wanted to return VAT to hotels, so you could at least list those friends in the previous year, so we know what to raise and what not. Does the excise on cigarettes depend on it? Or did everyone have a fight with cigarette manufacturers? Is that what the future of this law depends on? We thought that even though it is difficult, which is a crisis, there is at least some political goal, which is – this is what we will do in the next year. As we said at the beginning of this debate in general about the budget, before these incidents were both party and coalitional and dissuaded from various desires and whatever anyone was saying here, your moves in the past seven days have only proved that everything the opposition said was right, that this paper is worthless, that it doesn't make any political sense, that it's just a matter of what the title in the paper will be and who will be responsible and whose friends will be angry and whose friends will not. On this basis, conclusions should be drawn as to who is more powerful in this country, as it depends on who is more powerful on the country's economic policy, not on the government's position and attitude. Simply, although I was not just talking about this amendment, more about this atmosphere, it is the atmosphere in which the budget is adopted in Serbia. I don't remember any previous adopted similar. 29/1 VS/IP 16,50-17,00
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49522	Five minutes has been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 22 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49523	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 1 shows the relationship between the government of the Republic of Serbia and public enterprises towards the money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In addition to the deficit reduction foreseen by this amendment for some 34 or 35 billion dinars, we deliberately deleted one item in Article 1, which is the payment of interest based on the activation of guarantees. If the next member of the Republic of Serbia's budget is looked at, that is, Article 3. The Republic of Serbia will issue guarantees for 2,109,000,000 euros in 2011. Madam Minister, I'd like to know who we've issued the guarantees to, so based on activated guarantees, we're paying interest to our public enterprises, institutions or who else? Why do I say that? Because they have a monopoly position on the market. They have the protection of the authorities to carry out their work and that no one can be their competition, not least. Someone damaged the state by 70m euros and we want to know who it is, we want it to be responsible for it, not like when it was the 2008 auditor's report for NIS, so it's rumored that 80m euros have been spent because of unconscious business and the story has ended. So none of the executives of that body have been charged with any criminal charges, and he is not legally prosecuted. Now we are interested in whose seven billion are, whether they are in a new guarantee package and whether we are going to allow them to re-indebt and not to return from their incomes, but to return it to the citizens of Serbia. Don't be surprised, too, if we check and check the salaries to the directors of these public enterprises and institutions, on whose behalf we are returning guarantees, or their loans, we are paying their interest. I think with one of these policies, it should stop. One for which we must pay off his interest, his loans based on guarantees, can no longer receive a single guarantee from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. When you take that stand, then we'll see how he treats money.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49524	One minute used by the MP's group. National MPs Nenad Popovic, Arsen Djuric and Zoran Shami submitted to the 1st amendment. The word has been made by MP Arsen Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49525	Dear Presidency, Madam Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the DSS Group, we have tabled an amendment proposing that subsidies in agriculture be increased by two billion dinars, or from 20 to 22. Unfortunately, there are none of the pompous announcements in this budget that subsidies to agriculture will increase significantly even when we adopted the budget rebalance for 2010 a month ago, Minister Dragin announced that in the 2011 budget the subsidies in agriculture would be significantly increased and of course there was nothing. That's another one in a series of delusions from this government. I would like to remind you that the DSS MPs on all the budgets and budget rebalancing that you have submitted so far have written amendments where we have asked to increase subsidies in agriculture, taking into account the fact that agriculture is the only economic branch in Serbia that, in terms of the economic crisis, registers a surplus of foreign trade, means more exports than imports, and this year that surplus in agriculture and the food industry will be around a billion dollars, so we think it is necessary to increase these subsidies. Agriculture is an economic branch that employs more than 1/5 of Serbia's working and capable population, not to mention how important the foreign exchange inflow is for the state of Serbia. I think it is extremely hypocritical to announce from year to year the increase in subsidies, to talk about the necessity of increasing subsidies, and not to do so in the budget. It is true that this budget provides for a slight increase in these subsidies, and it does not even follow the inflation rate, and I think agriculture is an extremely important business branch and Serbia's greatest development opportunity, and for this reason we have submitted this amendment so that agricultural producers finally have some interest, and that they are engaged in agriculture. So I urge you to reconsider and accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49526	Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Zeljko Tomic. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49527	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Tomic and I have submitted an amendment that we wanted to increase subsidies to the economy and increase these subsidies from 3.1 billion to 5.1 billion dinars. Under the conditions of a major economic crisis that the Serbian government is responsible for and how well it has not acknowledged such a crisis, so it saw its great economic chance, and eventually saw that the crisis cannot be overcome by their knowledge and incompetence, the Serbian government has put all the burden very peacefully on the economy and on the back of Serbian citizens. In terms of and such a crisis, the economy is struggling with liquidity and insolvency problems, and the government instead of helping it, because the only way the state is to overcome these problems is to invest in the economy and resuscitate the same government, not only not to help it, but to reduce economic subsidies four times but other subsidies and they are now only 3.1 billion dinars. For the sake of comparison, what we pay as a debt war is 80 billion dinars, but it is not the biggest problem to deal with the country's economy, the biggest problem is the government's inability to strategically define the priorities of subsidisation and the purpose of funds in accordance with the law and the very importance. This should not be surprising, because this government has failed to make strategic development in the economy today, nor to make economic measures for overcoming the crisis, nor social measures to help the poorest in this country. So, we think that the only way for the state to get out of the crisis is to invest in the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49528	The MPs Donka Banovic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted together to the 1st amendment. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49529	Our amendment refers to classification 1.4 and this is about subsidies, so we have a list of how many subsidies from this budget are foreseen for some areas. We believe that very little subsidy is foreseen for investments in agriculture, i.e. agrarian. We suggest that of the figure provided for the railway subsidies, it be transferred for subsidies in agriculture. If we wanted to use one word to describe this unfortunate 2011 budget, then that would be the word - anti-agrarian. It is easy to say for this budget that it is anti-agrarian, because it is a shame that only 2.5% is allocated from the total budget for agriculture. We really didn't expect agriculture to be so underestimated, especially at a time of crisis when we know what it means to us with accompanying actions and that it brings about 40% of the money into the republican budget. Agriculture is a strategic branch, it's in this budget, it's in the seal. Obviously, those who run agriculture, and I know that many associations and the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, have also spoken to the Minister of Agriculture and to you, Mrs Dragutinovic, to show you how little money it really is for such an important branch. From food exports to raw materials for its production, around $2.1 billion will arrive in the country this year, or there will be a surplus when agriculture is in the one billion-dollar budget. So imagine what would happen if this government realized that it really needed to invest more in agriculture because in times of crisis it was the only healthy branch.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49530	Anyone else want a word? MP Zoran Mašić, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49531	I just want to briefly comment on the explanation given for not accepting this amendment. This is to say - the amendment could not be accepted for the reason that this proposal already identified the amount of two billion for subsidies in the areas of agriculture, forestry and water industry. I'm asking the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Agriculture, as well as all others who explain that they are not false. No increase in subsidies for agriculture -- two billion this year. It's just math and an account that I can't accept. I'm not an economist, but at least basic mathematics. Adding and subtracting I know. If I tell you that this year's subsidy for 16.815,357,000 dinars, the budget rebalance also allocated 15,477,700,000 to the subsidy of agriculture. So that's about 1,400,000 increase in subsidies. If the funds allocated as funding for agriculture are seen, 22,033,000,000 were allocated this year, and a budget rebalance was allocated to 20,572,000. Again, if one of the other figures is taken away, that's about a billion and a half dinars. Therefore, you cannot explain our public in any way and lead our people astray, i.e. agricultural producers, above all. The agricultural budget rose somewhere between a billion and 400 billion and 500 million compared to last year.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49532	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? National MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49533	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Dragutinovic, if it is to be tried at the beginning of this debate in particular, as it all began to have representatives, there are no representatives, we have an opinion, we have no opinion, and there is a quorum on the board, and there is no quorum. At two o'clock we get a government amendment to our own law, in four hours this same government is making amends to its amendment, which it proposed to its law, to the Committee, I apologize. If it is judged by all of this, you may think that your sad and unhappy will be fiscal in 2011. We, Mrs Dragutinovic, unfortunately all of us together who, unfortunately, are running this country's economic policy, so we probably live as we live, we have proposed in our amendment to Article 1 and in all other amendments to reduce the fiscal deficit by 30 billion. Mrs Dragutinovic, I can accept that your government's policy is to spend as many ministers as you want, not as many states as you can. I could accept that you put something like that in your explanation. I can accept in an explanation for the refusal of this amendment that you said some figures were not harmonised. You see, there are procedural procedures and techniques of a business that would eventually, if the government showed a political will to reduce the budget deficit, which these shortcomings could remove. What is devastating and what irritates you when the Government informs you in its explanation that the amendment does not comply with the Budgetary System Act. I'm asking you, and I asked you in principle, what did you do in accordance with the Budgetary System Act, and it concerns the adoption of this budget. You have violated the budget calendar which is part of the Budgetary System Act. You, Mrs Dragutinovic, are part of the government that, in order to adopt the 2011 budget, is changing the Budget System Act. All normal states, and you love it now European and modern to say and to pass system-based, roof-based law, the Budgetary System Act is such a law that must be incorporated or be based on the Budget Act for a year. You are such a power to fulfill the political ambitions of government ministers and officials changed the Budgetary System Act to achieve your political ambitions in 2011 which is pre-election, you changed the Law on the Budgetary System so that you could translate what you have translated into the Budget Law to indicate that it is in line with the principles of fiscal responsibility, which you adopted only a few months ago and offered to us MPs as something that will guarantee fiscal and economic security in 2011. It's really devastating and it's annoying. You can write in an explanation of whatever you want, but to say that we're not in line with the Budgetary System Act, you really don't have the right, and you don't have as a government to tell us something like that. We have proposed a reduction in the budget deficit, and we have not questioned any of the functions of the state. Although you look at how much it is, that it has not gone over 20%, and let it be around 30%, but when you analyse reports and DRIs and a bunch of other institutions that governmental NGOs, you see that that money is in the gray and black zone and that the budgets of the Republic of Serbia and all taxpayers that fill the budget of the Republic of Serbia that is being poured into private and other people's pockets. That money is used in the election campaign as you predicted in this budget that it would be spent in 2011. Certain provisions of this law are scandalous, they are so banal and so confirm this SRS finding and we can't wait to come to debate these members. Imagine what you're up to? You intend to transfer funds directly from the Republic of Serbia's budget to local communities. We're going to get there, to discuss it, imagine what a scandal it is. What local communities can do in the territory of a municipality without obtaining administrative legal or any consent from local self-government. These are your political projects. These are the political projects we'll talk about when we get to that member. We, Mrs Dragutinovic, are in the principle debate accused of selling demagogy here. That's not what you said. Because you're the only one who understands what they're asking you to do in this. The demagogy the opposition allegedly promotes was discussed by those who know the least about the budget. You see, the SRS has never challenged your budgeting technique. You boasted, it used to be 250, now it's 5,000 items, so what. It's okay. We don't have the programming budget yet, so to really say Serbia has an adequate budget definition, you don't have it yet, but what Mrs Dragutinovic did, once the tonsils were operated, so in the hospital it was seven days, today it's done in two days. It's not bad that we have 5,000 items, but the problem is what's in them and what's in them. What numbers and ambitions you have installed in them. The SRS considers itself an opposition party, where politics is diametrically opposed to the wasteful government. We believe that demagogy is imputed to us. Unfortunately, we haven't had a chance to answer that, and we think it's good to say it now. 31/1 MO/CG 17,10-17,20 Those who put a burden on our demagogue were actually talking about budget techniques, budget writing techniques. Budget is a political document. The economic policy of a country is expressed in it. What you were obliged to do in government, Mrs Dragutinovic, is really show the political will that you can't do what you want with the taxpayers of this country. So you can turn around, Mrs Dragutinovic, and tell your colleague, Mladjan Dinkic, a lot more. How long will the state fund your political projects? How long will we all be hostages to your political ambitions? Did you have the courage to say such a thing to Young Dinkic? Of course not. In that dispute, you would always be defeated. The SRS is deeply convinced of something like that. Can you say a lot more subsidies? Enough more, Dinkic, the state is funding something that has not shown its will anywhere else. We asked you to cut subsidies to the Fiat, among other things. Look now, a thousand and some workers have been declared a technological surplus. They're going for the cost of the state. The Minister or State Secretary of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development says the state is showing social responsibility. I beg you to show social responsibility to the workers of "Atlas" from Surdulica. It is the daughter of the Cat company, owned by Djordje Nicovic. Show some will, so be socially responsible to them. Be socially responsible for workers "September 5" or "RR partners" from Surdulica. They've been on strike for six months. They're climbing the roofs. Adequate evidence and arguments are being collected, the Privatisation Agency disputed the privatisation contract, and the government annuls what the agency has disputed. Where social responsibilities go in that case. So we're not asking that there's social responsibility to the burden of the state, but to the burden of whoever bought the company and who privatized these companies. You're not even able to do that, and here we're going to finance whatever and whatever, who has political desires and ambitions. Did you, Mrs Dragutinovic, have the courage to tell the Minister of State Administration – we will not finance a regional school for the state administration? You've only spent four million on curative differences this year. Who knows how much you'll spend next year. Did you, Mrs Dragutinović, show you in the government the courage to tell the directors of public enterprises – 200,000 dinars of wages? Five hundred, six, and I don't know how much they took. A lot more to take this, because they're in charge of companies, companies don't pay back their debts, so the state is paying them back out of the budget because you're forecasting seven billion in the next year for paying off running guarantees, and then you're generous and you're giving them more subsidies. Now someone's putting a demagogue on our burden, and none of you have the guts to talk about it and talk about it. It is not the most important budget to adopt, Mrs Dragutinovic, as you said in an interview. The most important thing is for him to be in line with the needs and real opportunities of this country. This budget isn't. This budget is not in line with this country's capabilities. This country and all its citizens can't finance what you've defined on the bulk side. It is not true, as all the representatives of the majority said, that this is the only possible budget. It's not true that it's the only possible thing. You could've cut it. How do we know that the level of consumption will remain on the one you've projected? The day the IMF went to you, which was the only limit for you, not the obligation and responsibility to national economic interests, who knows what you're going to do with the budget deficit. Be honest, so tell me, is this budget deficit real, too? The only thing you can guarantee in 2011 is that the costs and expenditure side will be this big or bigger. The future side is written like this because you count primarily on inflation and price growth, not because real economic stability is going to ensure this. It's just not true, but we all have to put up with it together. You resented me, I won't say resentful, but you said I called you for your debts. Then in your final presentation, you said, that is, you looked back on capital spending and you said, yes, there are 30 billion, there used to be 60 billion, but what did we get for it? I'm asking you now, what did we get in Serbia for all the debts you've put on our necks as a government for the past ten years? What did we as a state, as citizens, as beneficiaries of the services of the Republic of Serbia's budget get? How is it possible, Mrs Dragutinovic, that we don't have Corridor 10 finished? How is it possible, Mrs Dragutinović, that with so much money withdrawn, we don't have finished bypasses? How is it possible, Mrs Dragutinovic, that we don't have finished bridges? How is it possible that after so much money withdrawn on behalf of the grant loan, you in Serbia today have a state administration that is unable to write projects that will apply for grants? Your MPs say there is no money in local self-government, so let them imagine, they have IPA funds, so let them manage it. In ten years, withdrawing funds from abroad and from credit, you haven't created a state administration until the end, which can write projects. We were talking about a spatial plan, Mrs Dragutinovic. You live in a country today so credited with credit, which is not covered by a water and sewerage network, and you say, "What have we got?" Here, we ask you, what have we got for the money you pulled and which are you going to withdraw? You have accepted the fact that you give guarantees to companies, companies that are already in charge, whose debts you pay, and you intend to keep borrowing them. That's what we suggested to reduce, to reduce the subsidies to the railways. Not because you don't need to help the workers, but I'm asking you why you let them keep in charge? What have you reduced to the fact that you will pay their debts this year? That's what economic and laws require. You didn't do anything. You, for God's sake, have made a very nice and brave confession – the 2011 budget does not differ significantly from the 2010 budget, except that the salaries are increased by 2%. As wages increase by 2%, inflation and prices rise in double-digit amounts and double-digit percentages. That's why the SRS is asking you to cut the budget deficit by 30 billion. We haven't questioned the functioning of the state, we haven't even reduced any of the pay you're proposing, and you're predicting that you're sharing, and at least what concerns social aid and social welfare. Everything that is strategic and which is structurally important for this country and for our development we have not also denied for funding, but we have found a way to reduce 30 billion. We suggest you take it warmly. You always have the option, because this budget will certainly experience its rebalance very quickly, you always have the opportunity to increase the budget deficit, but on the SRS proposal show the will to spend less in 2011, to waste less than the years you left behind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49534	It was used 13 minutes from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The People's Messenger Vlajko Senic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49535	Dear Minister, the President-in-Office, I would say, first of all, that the issue of the Fiat Project in Kragujevac is not a party project, as you could have seen this year. So, the funds Serbia will invest in 2011 are at the department of finance, which, I would say, is one symbolic sign that in this sense one such big and serious project cannot be tied to even one government, let alone one political party. What is the obligation of the state is to enable it to create conditions for the arrival of foreign investors at the time and in the situation in which Serbia is located. In order for foreign investors to think of coming to Serbia, the state has to be more generous than in some organised EU countries or in some countries far away, where there are certain comparative advantages that we cannot offer at the moment. So in order to have such an important foreign investment, we have to say "resolve the bag". On the other hand, the state, of course, is not obliged to deal with any individual worker who will work in a factory. It is our obligation to open up the opportunity and perspective for the opening of production and it is our obligation to have the social part that the state normally deals with. I think when we talk about Kragujevac, in that part, the workers are treated in a way that is better than some cases before. I agree, and probably that example of you, I don't know what that private guy who brought the factory into this situation is, but in any case, the state needs to help wherever it is possible, but it's not possible for the state to deal with every single destiny. I would also say that, as far as the budget deficit is concerned, I think we said that during the debate in principle, so for the first time, on the basis of the Fiscal Responsibility Act, which is part of the budget system, it determines the deficits of the budget and so it will be the next year and every year, with our conviction that in 2015, we will achieve this strategic goal that the budget deficit is at a level not greater than 1% of the social product Is this the best possible budget at this point? I'm sure it's not, and I believe that in some theoretical debate, there could have been something different and better done, but at this point, it really seems to me that, respecting the fact that we're really working at the last moment, the crisis that our entire society is in, the crisis in which Serbia is, this draft budget is some kind of response from the state to the economic situation. As for the subsidy, of course, that we would all be satisfied, that the subsidy item would be zero, but if you look globally, so that these are subsidies for the economy, for agriculture, for the railways, tourism and culture, I do not see that there is any greater possibility that this amount will be reduced, especially when it comes to subsidies for the economy that were also needed by the state to further stimulate foreign investors to invest in Serbia. I didn't say any party's proposal was demagogy, I just want to say that demagogy is always when you meet economic problems with non-economic measures. When we talk about the Fiat case, I'm going to say that everything Serbia did after 2000, so not at the time your political party was responsible, it was demagogy. So, every year after 2000, by the time a deal with the Fiat was made, it was the demagogue of each government after 2000 and the unwillingness to solve such a problem, and I hope 2011 will bring us a solution to that problem. If it is not as we announce it, surely we will bear responsibility in the elections and in the citizens, but we have taken responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49536	Four minutes and 33 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. National MP Dragan Stevanovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49537	Look, Mr. Senic, I need to tell you a few things, and this is exactly what you're heading towards me right now. First of all, I'm interested in one thing - will any of the other MPs who make up the congregation's majority rise and defend our attack on Project Fiat? Let the MP DS, SPS or any other party of government rise up to say that we are wrong, and that those who promote this project are right. You won't find a man like that in Serbia, but I don't blame you, you're a good party soldier and you have to listen to the boss and do what you have to do and I'm not putting it on you. You're here saying it's not a one-party project, it's a government project. So you're saying that the government, that the subsidies will go through the Ministry of Finance. You know what Mr. Dinkic says? "The financing of Fijata investments has not been transferred to the Ministry of Finance's jurisdiction, but some new items have been opened to the ministry in connection with Fiat," Dinkic said, etc. He takes it upon himself and you political responsibility and every other responsibility for a complete failure must be on your own to say on your backs to accept. Mladjan Dinkic also praised the country's four-billion-euro investment in the coming year and of four billion euros in six thousand, six thousand euros in investment by Fiat. I'm just gonna remind you that the state is going to spend more money on the severance payments to these people that Fiat fired 1,500, 1,600 that he hasn't taken over, but that Fiat is going to spend all next year on their money without talking about everything else that's going to be financed by the cost of the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49538	National MP Vlajko Senic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49539	As for the coalition partners' views, I believe they will be seen through the budget vote. If we don't have the support for this, as you say our proposal, I guess the budget won't be voted because this is one important part of the whole story. I must say, it is not really a party project, but you know well that the president of the country has visited the factory in Turin several times, as part of Serbia's efforts to bring them to Serbia. Indeed, we're in one quite like this, I'd say, a strange situation. On the one hand, you had one factory that really didn't just after 2000, but long before 2000, it practically didn't exist, and there were paper workers and their wages and expenses and the ransom was zero, I think something like 1,600, 1,700 cars a year, which you only bought if someone forced you to. In some perspective, there is the possibility of opening up a factory in Serbia that should annually produce 200,000 cars that will be exposed to the EU market which, you are smartly, you will easily calculate, can represent up to 30% of the total exports Serbia currently achieves over the past few years. Now I have no other way to defend this project, except to talk about one, let me say, loser and black hole trying to turn into something that's good for both Kragujevac and that region and Serbia. Taking on, here's a full political responsibility for the results of this whole project without regretting DS, SPS or anyone else, but that the state has to do something on that plan, that is, the fact and I am convinced that what we do will yield results and in the end of next year we will face each other and see whether it is so or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49540	Right to the replica, MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49541	Mr. Senic, I do not at all dispute that you as an individual are prepared to take any political responsibility, but when you speak of the political responsibility of your leader or party to which you belong, I will remind you only of the thousands of euros of actions that Mladjan Dinkic has promised to beat Boris Tadic as he told us in "Repacking" at RTS. So he said he was taking political responsibility and everything on the story of taking political responsibility. We don't say that the state shouldn't show the will to stimulate and help, create an ambience in which to invest and invest, but all of this has to have limits, all of it has to have limits, and all of it has to show its economic justification. I owe you something from a little while ago. I don't argue that much of it was bad in the '90s, because of the bad 90s how much responsibility we had for them for two years of participation in the government, we took responsibility in 2000 when you beat us in the election. But I'll only remind you one thing. When Vojislav Seselj was vice-president of the Government of the Republic of Serbia since 1998-2000, not a single dinar from the Republic of Serbia's budget in Fiat, i.e. he did not go to the flag for free and beautiful eyes. On every penny in that company, someone had to produce at least one vehicle to put it on concessions or government or state authorities. Then the money wasn't given into anything, as it is now, and the effects of the economic result of spending money still, and we won't feel for much longer.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49542	National MP Vlajko Senic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49543	As far as Vojislav Seselj is concerned, here's to wish that the president will return to you as soon as possible, and if you win the elections, you may have another chance to deal with Kragujevci, Fiato and so on, but that will be decided by the citizens. As far as the action is concerned, it's no secret. So, at the time this Law on the Assembly was adopted, which was then voted by both DS and DSS, it was an estimated value of the company that should be privatised in the next period. It is neither our party nor Mladjan Dinkic. The privatisation law required that some of the privatised funds be distributed 15% to all citizens who did not feel the benefits of privatisation because they did not work in companies that were privatised. Have we taken political risk? We did. Is that what it looked like at that point? Yes, it is. I can tell you again what we're going to do every day, if I have to. No one at this point seemed to have been able to predict this situation of the global economic crisis, this situation is falling, in general, businesses and economies, no one could have predicted that Serbia would give NIS to Russia, without any tender, without any, I say, public. We'll see what the price of Telecom is now, so we might be able to see what could have been obtained for NIS. Therefore, what we are talking about "Fiyat", we are taking absolute responsibility for what has been said before Serbian citizens. This is very measurable and we are not running away from our election promise, and we are aware that the political damage caused by the fact that thousands of euros have been promised, and that citizens in their portfolio today do not have a thousand euros, but in the next period we will do everything possible to make the economic situation as best as possible, that for companies that have remained we get a better price and provide citizens with one decent fee for the fact that they have also participated in the creation of some of the goods of this country, without having had the opportunity to work in those companies that have sold themselves well.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49544	Two minutes. National MP Dragan Stevanovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49545	Here, Mr. Senic, for the SRS, taking responsibility means, if not more, at least some resignation. I can ask you to resign for what Mladjan Dinkic promised in a gift and in a dowry of Boris Tadic, for the presidential election. I'm not asking you to, but we expected responsibility from them. A lot of stories about political, democratic, this kind of responsibility. I'm really not putting anything on your mind. You have chosen to be part of this political project, but they are expected to be responsible, to say -- citizens, we have promised a thousand euros, we have given a thousand and seven hundred dinars, now we will go to political retirement. You don't deserve it. It's political responsibility, you offer your resignation and go. The damage he suffered and why he suffered, no one's talking about who's going to make up for it. One more thing, you know, Mr. Senic, nobody slows down the global economic crisis, but it can't all be behind the cover of the global economic crisis. No one is to blame for once providing 50m euros in loans to the flock, and in this budget we are designing new debts for them of 140m euros. Why? One loan at a time. Or, Mr. Senić, you made it possible by voting for the budget that certain public enterprises, indirect budget users, withdraw loans, the state pays them these loans, give them the opportunity to re-indemnify these same firms, and the directors of public companies that are party officials who make up the government receive a salary of 200,300 000 dinars. This is not dependent on the global economic crisis, but on the political will of the majority ruling this country and that it is something different from 2010 we would not have had such a sad 2011 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49546	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Anybody else answer for a word? MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49547	Mrs. Komic, this amendment follows this previous one, so I find it strange that the government is calling for Article 28. The law on the budgetary system, and I'm just embarrassed to find that when it comes to the amendment of the Finance Committee, no one has found it, that it's not in line mathematically either. I don't know how you're going to get out with this amendment that's supposed to come up at four and something, but good. What's the point of this amendment? The point of this amendment, respected citizens of RS, is to make your country 30 billion dinars cheaper in 2011. Now someone is going to ask a question -- how can it be cheaper, when these experts are killed, explaining that it needs to be together, that we have to borrow, etc.? When we talk about amendments to Article 7 on economic calsifications, all SRS MPs will very specifically tell you what is unreal to finance under the division and economic classification from the ministry to the ministry, starting with the President of the Republic, whom we want to deny the right to travel abroad because we do not know what a man spends money for free. All his paths were disastrous for the RS because the result was zero, but not to talk any further about it. Now I have to draw attention to those who are a little bit of an understanding of the economy, these big economic analysts, graduate sociologists, psychologists, etc., granting from all televisions, allegedly criticising the RS government, and then these same journalists honoring the ministry's finance that economic personality is in 2010. To understand, it's a big game, because we know who's funding these media and who's holding them. What's the point? The point is that during 2011, this country in terms of government, what needs to be financed, can be much cheaper. Here's a few examples. If you didn't trust me a few years ago, now you have to trust these friends of yours from different backgrounds. The commission, which says total public procurement in RS is about four billion euros. These are state authorities, local self-government and public enterprises systems, however, not all of them, do not apply and do not respect the Public Procurement Act, but those who respect – respect it. That's four billion euros. They mathematically calculated that 20% of non-purpose spending, and some say it's being stolen. Do you understand, Mrs. Comic? That's not what I wrote, but Greco, the Venetian transparent Serbia, this bald one, etc. There are those who follow you. They were paid from abroad to monitor over you. They just look at you and record you and then they go there and sue you and then the coalition shakes here, and the coalition capacities are scattered, and so on. I'm thrilled with what I just heard from Mr. Vlaik Senic, I just think he's mistaken the location where he needs to talk. He's supposed to go to the flag factory and go to the slag workers. I hope it does not go the same way as Vlahovic, Djelic and Pitic did. I don't want to, but if he can convince them, then you will understand why Mrs Dragutinović laughed while you, Mr Senic, spoke. But you'll do it another way. So, 20% that's 800 million euros, gone, lost track over the year. It is likely that some of those who participate in public procurement, those who discuss public procurement, but some bankers, and I think that the president, or the secretary of the National Security Council, with their system BIA, mia, dia, etc., know very well where these money ends, what it is used for, who is funded and what the state should look like. There is, Mrs Dragutinovic, some space to pinch a little bit to make the state a little cheaper. I know you have an extreme need, you, DOS, to constantly increase the deficit and to look for sources of funds to deny the deficit. Now I turn it on the tumbles, and I say, "What is the deficit for?" What are the needs that we cannot realise through taxes, customs and other things? It has only come to the conclusion that for 30 and a few billion dinars, you are making a deficit because of something that represents a luxury for every citizen of RS, but it is also a primal need for those who are close to organised crime, mafiaing, corruption, as you will call it, but harmful phenomena for the citizens of RS. We've promoted that with this amendment, we've written it. 34/1 GI/VK 17.40-17.50 Otherwise, when an increase in aggregate demand is called here, and then they say, in some period, it's not bad to go to debt to cover the deficits, to ensure greater employment, then know in 1930 and some earlier years it's followed both the reduction of losses and taxes, in order to open up space to address the unemployment issue. Here we have it going to the tubs. Debt increases, financing of non-productive state administrations increases, tax burdens towards the economy, so everything goes from gray to so-called. The black economy, and then we have pure volunteerism, political devotion, media commitment, acceptance at the end of the year to figure out again how we've achieved epochal results, and they're going to look at what we're going to sell, we're going to spend everything, and we're going to be in debt again, and then some big genius is going to say -- we're going to have gross social product growth, virtually, of 3%, and we're probably going to have some inflation, which is bearable. In this way we see that there is no principle difference between borrowing through the National Bank and the appropriate emissions and the IMF, the World Bank and others, I call them counters, who are very willing to give us some credits, to borrow us, because they are absolutely sure that every year the Ministry of Finance, regardless of the aggregate state of debt to be re-deposed, and then re-indebted, and then one year it will be sold to Telecom, and then two years it will be in debt so that the EPS will be sold, and then it will be disbursed, and then we will go to mortgage bonds, and then we will borrow – and after some time we will realize that we can't sell more, and in consequence, and also such defeated policies, will be disbursed, so that between 36 and 40,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia will die more every year than we will be born in this country. Of course, there's going to be that indifference, depression, and other things. This has been done by the Government of the Republic of Serbia since 2000 in continuity, although 70 billion euros have taken loans, aids, donations, everything. For one prominence, Serbia's citizens have not been better for a moment since the DOS came to power. Of course, you will refuse this amendment, but it will only harm the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49548	Six minutes and 25 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Before we begin the search in detail on the amendment to Article 1 submitted by the Government, on the basis of Article 90(2), I would like to inform the National Assembly, with a reminder that the President of the National Assembly, Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, has informed the National Assembly that we will be working today after 18.00 hours, that, on the basis of an oral agreement with the representatives of RTS, our session will be in direct transfer until 21.00 hours and that I assume that we will also end work for today. The Government has submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49549	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Dragutinovic, Article 1 is a member who defines the total incomes and expenditures and defines what revenue will be and what expenditures will be in the year for which the budget is adopted. There should be no dilemma, and at least as far as these numbers are concerned, there's no dilemma. It is difficult for us to say for sure for the simple reason that in Serbia we still do not respect some normal procedure. What do I mean by that? I think it is necessary to adopt the final bill for the previous year before the 2009 final account had to be adopted in the procedure on July 15th, according to the applicable laws. He's not even here today, when we're discussing this budget. If we knew today how money was spent in 2009, we would probably find it much easier to discuss how it would be spent. On the other hand, it's very worrying what the state auditor says. The first remark of the State Auditor is that the main book of the Treasury should be done in accordance with the Budgetary System Act and the Budget Accounting Regulation. That's what the state auditor noticed. The independent body says that part of the finance ministry that all payments go through has not been made in accordance with the law. That puts a serious question mark on how money is spent. Another thing, if we had a final account for 2009, we'd see if the 2009 Budget Law was respected. For example, Article 15 says 40% of their own income should be paid into the budget. To what extent is this member of the law respected? It's quite a mix-up and what's on the Ministry of Finance's website, because when you want to get familiar with incomes and expenditures, then you come across two tables. One says – according to the Budget Law, and the other says – for all sources of funding. I guess we have some common funds and there are no new sources of funding. The differences aren't small at all. In one case, it's 659 billion as income, and in the other case it's 709. So, about 500m euros or 50 billion have some kind of confusion. The explanation is given down in the fus note where it is said that the new methodology of the Ministry of Finance is in line with the methodology used by the IMF. I don't think there's any dilemma. The finance ministry has a new methodology, it's consistent with the IMF, and that's all right. In the amendment, I proposed that all revenue and expenditure be agreed and presented according to a new methodology that is in line with the IMF. The amendment was not accepted. The explanation is: the amendment is not accepted for reasons why the Ministry of Finance does not have its own methodology. How is there no methodology when you say – according to the methodology of the Ministry of Finance? If it says "by the methodology of the Ministry of Finance", that means you have a methodology. Now it turns out you don't have a methodology. You have two different tables and then in another amendment you say – there is no need to inform you as the National Assembly, see the website of the Ministry of Finance. Now, do you have a methodology or don't you have a methodology? You're listening to the IMF, you're not listening to the IMF? We have an arrangement with the IMF, no arrangement with the IMF. You want a tax on hotel services, so you don't want a tax. It's a complete confusion that can confuse anyone who tries to read this carefully.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49550	It's been used two minutes since the deputy president of the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 22 MPs from the Progress Serbia group submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Vuceta Toskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49551	President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a few days ago we heard the Prime Minister, when he had an exposure to the budget, that it was a developmental budget. We find that it is not a development budget because the budget that was initially mutilated with 120 billion cannot be developed because there is no real inflow that all these projects proposed for next year would be realised, and large debt and implementation of these projects would result in a sunflower. That is why it reaches out to the greater burdens of fiscal policy that brings greater burdens and uncertain futures to our people. I cite an example of policy writing from October 18th, that each fourth citizen in Novi Sad will be segregated from seven to 17 years because of outstanding debts. There is an increasing economic crisis that has emptied our citizens' wallets, and it is becoming more and more difficult to live, let alone carry out their obligations. What are the citizens of the rest of Serbia doing who are in a worse position and the economic situation? The strategy and visions of the next 10 years don't live. We have almost ten years behind us that have brought nothing on the economic plan to this people, the only thing that is visible, which is greater uncertainty and the fall of standards. For these reasons, the Prosperity Group, Serbia, has submitted an amendment to Article 2 and has made the proposal how to reduce these figures given in the bill, there is about 10% so that I do not now quote it every MP has ahead of him. So we cut there by about 10 to 15% to cover the budget, the funds needed to finance the budget. That deficit would not have been to this extent if the amendments to the 2010 opposition were accepted for the 2010 budget that were well-intentioned and more realistic than accepted and therefore the consequences, we have 120 billion deficit budgets. This amendment speaks of the need to reduce public spending, bank loans, broadcasts of government securities of value. So, the less consumption, the less enjoyment, the more real the budget is, there's a more stable state and a higher standard of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49552	Three minutes and 15 seconds from total, means one minute and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49553	In Article 2, in line with what we have proposed in Article 1 to reduce the budget deficit by 30 billion, therefore our borrowing needs, i.e. withdrawing funds on the domestic and foreign market, to finance that budget deficit, are less. The government responded the same way it responded to the first amendment we submitted, and everyone else was recommitted to that intention. We believe, Mrs Dragutinovic, unlike your previous manners, you could show political courage and accept the fact that you reduce the budget deficit. You haven't been able to meet some unreasonable political ambitions once before, we couldn't understand it, but we would very much support it by reducing the budget deficit and showing that you are ready to lead a different fiscal policy in 2011. It was not clear to me in the debate on the budget rebalancing for 2010 that a national MP resented why the expenditures of the Agrarian Administration were large, and you found it appropriate to respond that it had been moved to Šapco and that the costs were higher, but at the same time, as Minister of Finance, you accepted that this assembly adopt laws that would move four other state-owned large bodies and we will not be justified in 2011 to pay higher costs and the National Employment and Directorate, i.e. SIEP, as it is called, for the promotion of imports, etc. As you are prepared for such political compromises, show your willingness to do so. Reduce the budget deficit to make it easier to function and survive in 2011.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49554	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Arsen Đuric, Zoran Shami and Zeljko Tomic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Arsen Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49555	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we have submitted to Article 2 of the amendment where we have proposed to add a new position 2a, which reads - agreement on the conclusion of each individual loan to finance the coverage of deficits is given by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The current government has shown that it has not controlled since its formation but only owes the state and is not responsible for the future of Serbia's state and citizens. Official data suggests that the level of debt is near the upper limit of 45% of GDP, and only this year added state records for 212 billion dinars. That is why we think it is necessary for the National Assembly and the public to have more control over Serbia's borrowing in order not to get into a situation where the state cannot service its external debt. I would remind you that the Serbian government, when the DSS led the government in 2006, paid over a billion dollars in debt and brought Serbia out of the country's middle-indebted category with a relatively low level of debt, and you have been in charge of the government for over four billion euros over the last two and a half years. We believe and we have always said that it is not scary and it is not dangerous if the state is in debt, and these funds are invested in the development of infrastructure, in the development of domestic economy, and not as you do to cover the budget deficit and cover public spending. The effects of your borrowing are more than modest. There was no economic growth or reduction in unemployment. On the contrary, every day a growing number of citizens lose their jobs. We haven't even finished some infrastructure projects. Since I come from the Zlatibor County, I want to ask you what about building a highway from Belgrade to Požega whose concession you have annulled by promising to build it from the budget and from various duties? After two and a half years, it wasn't built a foot that way. I urge you once again to accept this amendment, and I think it is necessary for the Serbian Parliament to have greater control when borrowing the state since you really do not care about the level of borrowing.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49556	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49557	Mrs. Komic, Mrs. Dragutinovic, ladies and gentlemen, MPs of the 2nd define the way in which the deficit will be charged and the member of the 2nd proposed budget has been told that the deficit will be financed by loans, issued by state securities of value, and if the revenues from privatisation are then one of these two items will be corrected. I suggested that the Serbian Parliament be a team before it is a minister and that all necessary data be published once a month so that the National Assembly is informed as the National Assembly about the level of deficits. I received an answer that the amendment is not accepted because the Ministry of Finance is printing a bulletin of finance, and it publishes data on the Ministry of Finance website, and there is also a section where all the necessary data can be found. One thing to notify the Assembly officially, because you are not bound by the laws. You're saying the law doesn't have to be respected and it's not that important, and it doesn't oblige us to do something published on the Ministry of Finance website. One thing is to inform the National Assembly, another thing is to do something else. The third thing is that at this point in our discussion of the budget, we don't even know what the government and the state authorities' commitments are. It turns out that the PIO fund has a debt of 500m euros, at least that's how they publish public information funds and write on some websites. I guess that's some kind of information, too. Is that a deficit? I think so. The second thing, we warned that the way the deficit is financed is not good. The transmission of government records of values at extremely high interest rates. The other day it was 14.9%. We came from a total of 45 billion dinars or 450m euros in 2011 interest on loans. Drastically, last year's interest in domestic records increased. It was 11 billion last year, and this year, 24 billion dinars. It is a little less than the total transfer funds in all municipalities and all cities in Serbia. The budget should give us all the information we need and we should have a pretty clear picture when we vote on it. Mrs Dragutinović, I do not know if you are familiar with the following quote – we plan to use most of the expected revenue from the privatisation of Telecom for funding, to reduce the allocations on behalf of interest. 36/1 AD/LjL 18,00-18,10 In particular, we plan to make early repayment of the debt on which the high interest is charged, and to use the revenues from the privatisation of Telecom to reduce the volume of the Treasury records emissions for net funding purposes. If I'm not mistaken, most of the expected revenue from the Telecom privatisation for budget financing means that the Telecom money will go to the budget. It's not in the budget, but it says in the letter of intent sent to the IMF. We now vote here on one thing, and then in the letter of intent we read about what the government's economic policy will be and then we vote. What are we voting on? Then let's ask the IMF what's going to happen in Serbia, and we'll get clear information. Let's get that into the Rules of Procedure, so MPs can ask the IMF, and then we'll probably know what's going on in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49558	One minute and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The authorised representative is Nenad Popovic. I'm asking because the president of the parliamentary group and the vice president are present in the O.R. I can't decide. Thank you. So, from the time of the representatives of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? If not, pursuant to Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been tabled by the Committee on Finance on Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) A group of 22 MPs from the Progressive Group submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49559	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are already entering this debate on details and the problem is a deficit, the way our public funds are being spent. A lot of agencies, offices, administrations seem to be in the way. Madam Minister said that if we were to collect all this in one place and give it all up, it wouldn't be some big item in the budget on behalf of the savings. However, if we put it all together, here, this is already the third budget, I think we would cover 30 or 40% of our deficit, or reduce it, if we didn't have that superfluous, massive state administration. Now there are guarantees from the Republic of Serbia and one commitment from the National Assembly, when it votes this law, to confirm in the future that various public enterprises will issue 311 billion 898m dinars in the name of a debt guarantee with business banks. Although we got this budget in front of the sitting, I'm trying, I'm going through, I'm turning, I'm reading, and I found that we're going to pay 7 billion and 200 million interest on the basis of the guarantees we've reached and activated, but I haven't found anywhere on the revenue side of the budget that anyone we've issued the guarantee has paid back his credit, paid back the funds into the budget. I ask the question – are there any in this booklet? When the list of members of the third party starts to be issued with money, or guarantees, and the debt is likely to be a good part and the budget, or the citizens to return, here, one of the first items is "Fiat". "Fiat" is the most frequently mentioned item in the Republika Srpska budget. He's got two more places to go. He's with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy. And here he is, and we'll give him a guarantee worth 135 million euros. I'd like someone to explain to me the economic justification of what's going on with our projects of public importance, with the Fiat, etc. The only thing we got from the Fiat is, under one political pressure that's been made here, 200m euros. As much as we've invested, I don't think anyone else knows. All who praise to participate in this project, I have to ask them another question, which is – is this the only way out of the difficult economic situation in Serbia? Or is it just some declarative conspiracy that we're going to be, God forbid, a big car giant like the state? All those who spend money in this infrastructure should be well asked why they are doing it and how much damage they are doing to the state, because Fiat has far more resources than the whole state of Serbia. I asked another question, and that's -- why don't we go into some serious projects when it comes to agriculture? Because Serbia is still a agricultural-agrarian country. He's making food. That industry isn't that expensive. But that's why the whole chain of production works for much less resources. It won't be about two, three or four thousand workers. If we had invested this much money in the agricultural industry, we would have about 200 to 300,000 people out of work today. Now, we have one demagogue, about 200,000 cars that we're about to produce, which are about to arrive. And so year after year. And worst of all, all those in favor of this Project "Fiat" and who are conducting it will not be the ones who return these loans. It's not gonna be you who's gonna get those funds back. Seems to me, they won't even suffer the consequences of their bad moves. That's the problem. That's why we submitted this amendment. I wouldn't go into the story about JAT Airways - 140m euros, etc. There are infrastructure projects here that deserve a lot more attention than "Fiat" and are much more important than "Fiat," but their items are two, three or four times less than "Fiat". So, if we add the guarantee, 135m euros, a few hundred million euros from the finance ministry, 150m euros from the economy ministry, we've reached half our deficit. That's how much "Fiat" costs.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49560	MP Velimir Ilic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49561	President-in-Office, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are listening to an opposition who is trying to make an extremely bad budget that has been made to correct the amendments. But we can see that you have no good will to discuss it. You started one of your games and you pushed it all the way, so everyone just fell apart. It's important that you adopt your budget Wednesday night and finish this job, no matter what the budget is. It is illogical these days, as we discuss the budget here, that in one day of the afternoon, a principle debate on the budget that follows another five laws is concluded. It is awkward for a simple pension insurance law to pass with a single sentence in the prime minister's exposé. Law on citizens' property - without a single sentence of the prime minister. The question is, is one serious budget in one country being adopted in principle in such a short time? Plus, the Prime Minister's exposé takes two minutes. We end it, you see, the ruling coalition is not even present, a few MPs sit there, just for the sake of order, they will come on the day of the vote, and this will all vote. And how will it be? It's going to be worse than this year. That's for sure. So, have a little hearing. Listen to the amendments. Accept some amendment. It can be much better for Serbia. You're doing everything head-on. You're all partying. You do everything violently. You do everything majority. It's just one voice over and everything's gonna be okay. Gentlemen, do you realize that for certain things that happen there is a responsibility? Here, I've been listening to a gentleman here who praised the Phiata Project, the Phiata Project, which is an extremely bad project, where the project promoter and bearer must never come to this room to explain their project, never have he come to this hall to look us in the eye and to give us this brilliant project of his. Here, they add up millions of euros that cost Serbia. We are never in Serbia's development strategy, so you gentlemen from the ruling coalition never said that Serbia's priority is Serbia's life, the automotive industry, but you've always said -- agriculture, energy, travel, construction, tourism. Now, when we look at the budget, the life of this Serbia depends on the Fiat and the automotive industry. So, what is your strategy? Here, the other day we heard a visionary project by the president that predicted in 2020 where Serbia is going, how it will be, and we are modest, we are asking to see what happens in a month, in 2011, we are not going that far. But you with very large visions, which you are following, you see already in 2020 as a very successful year, and I know that Serbia will be the biggest giant in the automotive industry. What Mercedes, what BMW, what Folcvagen, the Pejo? Well, that won't exist. We'll run them all over. "Audi"? Oh, it doesn't matter. Gentlemen, you waste so much money, we don't know what to do. The gentleman here notes, says – everything has ruined the NIS project because it has been donated. Look, NIS has been donated, and that's why Serbia has a problem, and I say hundreds of banks have been donated in Serbia, I say that in Serbia every brewery has been donated into debauchery, sugars for one dollar each. Not to talk about Sartide, where it's all covered up, it's all taken care of because the prime minister was the director of the Privatisation Agency. It's all right. Cements are not donated at all, but sold for nothing, for a few tenths, hundreds, thousands of euros, therefore, casinos, bookshops and everything else that follows. Now, "Optics" all the way by the highway, through Nub Invest, that's what Mr. Dulic gave it. Three thousand euros is the investment of a company that took a job without a tender, and income is 200m euros annually. Are we so rich to waste, to give? Here, when you look at the budget, it's so confusing, we don't even know what to do with certain branches of the economy. Some ministers, which were mentioned here, said: "Don't sell JAT, we will JAT, if it needs to be destroyed, and now we will resuscitate it with 51m euros, we have a good number for sale because someone has ordered that we do not sell it to the Russians. We are guinea pigs who sit and wait for what the EU will give us, and we do not think in this country that we should live until we join the EU in 2020. She needs to be welcomed. I remember when we were in Washington, as minister, that it was said in 2014 that you are entering the EU, and now as 2016, so 2018, now 2020, it might be 2030 and 2040, and it doesn't matter. Let's take care of our house, this country and put it on sound ground, not just fill out the questionnaires and compete to fill out the questionnaires, 6,000 pages. It is the most important thing for Serbia, to boast. People from the EU, we picked up all the questionnaires. We're changing the law on justice. How much did that cost? Now we're working again. Why? Gentlemen of the ruling coalition, you saw that the EU does not think what you thought. You thought, they told us a new law on justice, you'd be protected, but they won't. You see, that's how they told Sanader, so you see where they ended up, and so does Thaci, and so does Haradinaj, and so does this Prime Minister of Albania Berisha, and you see that he's going to pay fat, too. You see for yourself and Milo Djukanovic and St. Marovic. We fought fiercely with Sveta Marovic here, but now they charge, they don't need it anymore. They may not need you anymore either. Now you need another judiciary to protect you a little bit. You know what it was like? I remembered the time during Broz. Then it was, he says, "Find him something to arrest him, and now it's yours." Let's arrest him, and let's find him something. So, you've put some people down, and billions of people are standing in affairs that no one has touched. What about Satellite, sir, you smiling nicely from the front row? You're smiling with Satellite. Your boss came out and said it was the biggest con in Serbia's history. That Milo Dragic you also announced was chaos in the military industry, etc. In this House I spoke to Minister Sutanovac, sitting here where Mrs Dragutinović is sitting - Mr Sutanovac, don't play much with the military industry, you've played a lot, and you're not that professional. But he played a lot of games, so he played. Gentlemen, I warned him from this place here – don't change directors and top engineers from "Freedom" Cacak, and today it's burning "Freedom" and it's blown up the whole "Freedom" in Chačka. Who's going to answer, gentlemen, for that? Thousands of people have been evacuated. All the workers, you don't know who's alive, who's dead, there's lots of sanity, fire departments. What were you changing? Who authorized you to do such things? You want party people? You want your listeners? You want your party buddies all over the place? In banks, in the police, wherever you kill your men. That's why you'll be answering anytime for every offense. I was telling you the last budget when he was adopted - don't make a mess, by chance! You've done nothing, and now you're talking, floods! I'd make you do forced labor, do hand-to-hand dikes, gentlemen of the ruling coalition. Here, Dinkic predicted here that he was building some houses and Dulic to build, Ministry of Economy, while man, solved all the jobs and now he's going to build some houses. Apartments, Dulic 5,000, so now it's 1,700. Where's your money? This budget doesn't say. Where's your money for that? Credit lines. Which highways? Is the president out in the exposé and said – four highways are being worked in 2010, that it will be ready by 2012. What are you telling us in this 1,000-page budget here? What did you say? You have a memo signed with the executives, that's your attitude, and you'll approve your duties. Listen, you're playing with this country. I repeat, don't play with these people. Don't play anymore, we're your guinea pigs and you have to act serious in this House. Here, Madam President, Dinkic has to come and explain to the MPs the project "Fiita", to see if it's a bottomless hole or something that will result? If I were someone, and you'd eventually be putting up accounts in this House, I'd stop -- sir, come here and open a debate, see how many people get a job. Now the test has passed only 53, the other mentalists, no one can work. Who's that smart Italian? What comes to Serbia? Let him work in Italy, brother, so let him export all over the world. What couldn't he have taken out of Italy, with his highly intelligent workers? Please, it's a very dangerous game. It's the end of the year. We're getting into a lot of trouble. Where would we end up if we invested in agriculture, in energy, if we invested in something that brought money. We have a construction down in this year 20%, 34% uptake of living standards. What are we talking about here? We have 11% inflation, Europe's largest. Only behind us on the development scale are BiH, Albania has passed us. Remember four years ago where we were and where we are today. So, I warn you, don't play with this budget, don't dismiss these amendments lightly, don't think as you think, just to bring your party comrades home. There's a responsibility for everything that's been done. Someone has to answer and they'll have to answer. Don't let it end up in Michal Kertes, like customs, and customs is a very broad term. Don't let it end up on Sarancic, I mean "The Railway", there, it says, and it won't start the trials as much as the malversions were before that, since the magnet was obtained, take only that, there's a difference of one million euros. Are you ashamed of that? Why don't you run the trial and let it all come out? Not now, the advisor tells me from the president's office, though, ex-president, told me – put it in the drawer, there are some awkward things. Now, let's get these nasty things out of sight, let's see the sun, and let's see who's been doing what's been done, and let's take a good look at what's been done. So what you're doing with the budget is wrong. What you Kalanovićs give 33 billion, in a bunch of figures, that woman will strut and make regions, and share them as Santa Claus. We will, Mrs Dragutinovic, this 33 billion to break into positions, because these are loans, 25 billion, and only six billion are real from the budget. Everything else is credits. The state can't be in debt on credit lines and somebody's got these loans and so on. So define every position to know what the ministry accepts and that's why... (President: Mr. Ilic, you've started using MP time, you can, you can, but you've used the time of your boss and now you're using the time of the parliamentary group. Sign up again, you're right. ) Just to finish, this is very badly done, because we can't figure it out, and you're talking now – people, you'll live better, the government will be reconstructed. I'd just like someone to explain to me, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, in which the country of the world is adopted, and then it goes into government reconstruction. Do you know that before the government is reconstructed, the Ministry Act must be done, so the new government can be voted upon, and the budget rebalanced, complete for the new ministries, and this is a six-month process. Is there anyone normal who can talk and think about any reconstruction after the adoption of the budget? If you wanted to do this and if you saw for yourself that it was wrong, you should have reconstructed the government first and entered all these games. This can't go on. Now you're entertaining the people before the end of the year to reconstruct the government, so we'll be better off. That's what it is: don't cut the ass till spring. How do we survive until spring? A 60% power collection is announced. Let me explain something to you, we've done an EPS work analysis and every employee has brought the whole family and hired an EPS, a son, a daughter, a daughter-in-law, a wife, and it's a family firm. Did you know that one France has 12,000 workers, and it produces three times more electricity than we do? Now that these family relationships are being disturbed, when one party comes to power somewhere, then it takes all the unemployed family members and hires them. What now, let's collect the power. What are the people to pay from? Let's collect the property tax. What are the people to pay from? How is someone who doesn't get paid to pay a tax on property? And this tax will hit citizens, not economic operators. Business entities have small accounting values. Do you believe me, the other day I watched that one apartment in a larger city in Belgrade, Nis, Kragujevac, is worth more than a factory, accountingly, of three thousand or four thousand squares. Bookkeeping, she took off the price, has no value and pays a small property tax. So this people must pay for all that. Dulic came out the other day, so he threw the news out of the cannon, free legalization, and they said after a few days, well, he's not that professional. I don't understand you. So please, at least accept these amendments, to fix as much as possible. If you don't want that either, then take responsibility and be responsible for all this that you gentlemen are about to adopt, the ruling coalition.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49562	Mr. Vlajko Senic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49563	Can I use the time? Okay. As far as I'm concerned, I don't think any of the projects were on the wallpaper like this "Fiyata" project, and I really don't see why I so much want a project that will represent Serbia's return in an industrial sense, at that time marked in an earlier period, to represent and cause such a need for such a story to fail. Also, I think that no project in the last few years has been so searched from all sides that all the elements of the joint investment made by the state of Serbia with the "Fiat Group" from Italy, where the ratio of 2:1, to each investment by the "Fijata", per two euros, goes into Serbia's investment and that is the story that should raise the industry, that we already have Kragujevac over the past two years. The Kragujevac MPs, the Kragujevac citizens who live there know what Kragujevac is, and that it was a symptom for the valley of hunger, for the disaster and for the complete disaster in which the country is located, and that today it represents one of Serbia's leading centres. Which is why the need to derail an investment that really, and a few years ago, no one thought that Serbia could be any country that will be involved in car production, to become one of the leading in this region, as a step towards making more than 10,000 employees in Serbia, and besides the arrival of the Fiat, the gain should be the accompanying industry that needs to employ several thousand more people, over 10,000. So, the project is under way, the state is doing what it can on its own. On the other hand, there is also an incredible political resistance and the need for one such thing to fail, as if by failing anyone in Serbia could profit. I'm telling you, we're behind this project, we're not running away from political responsibility, but we're not looking for any political support or any political profit when that project is realised. The very fact that we will help and contribute to the start of Serbia's re-industrialisation will be more important to us than any story of good election results. 39/1 DM/CG 18.30-18.40 As far as NIS is concerned, we consider today as we thought at the time the agreement was made, that there had to be a separation of the South Stream Agreement and the sale of NIS, that NIS should be sold as any other company sold in Serbia through public bidding by supplying a binding offer and afterwards by direct bidding for those who gave the most useful, most concrete bids. We are confident today that the income Serbia would receive, and that was the time before the global economic crisis, would be multiple times higher than what we have now. Also, what happened in Chačka is terrible, and we're following that news, and there's still no information. We all hope together that there are no victims, but it does not see how this tragedy can contribute to any debate on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2011, and why there is a need for those things that happen on their own to directly relate to what we are saying in parliament today. I think we need, no matter the time that's hard, less, I'd say aggression in each other's relations. I think we can talk very civilizedly, very culturally without any more energy and negative energy directed towards political opponents. I feel that negative energy in the O.R. As far as we're concerned, we're absolutely supporting everyone doing their job and the police, and the prosecution and all the other competent institutions to determine where there is corruption, where there is crime. This is neither the government of the Republic of Serbia nor the National Assembly. It must be separated from everyday political life. As for the need for the government to define its strategy by 2020, I think it is good and whether it is proposed by the government or by a group of experts, or by the DS, it is certainly subjective and necessary to open a public debate on all this. I think it's finally time we had to live in a country that's going to be in 2020, not that knows what's going to happen in just a few years or a few months ahead. We are open to all other suggestions, we are open to participating in any other open debate, if anyone offers an alternative model of development. It seems to me that over the past year, we have reached a certain level of political consciousness and culture that obliges us to talk to each other about the big differences both politically and economically and socially, and that we are not introducing any kind of strength or desire for the neighbors to die, so we're going to get better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49564	Konstantin Samofalov has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49565	Madam President, I will use the time of the parliamentary group for European Serbia. I really need to look back on what Mr. Velimir Ilic said. I fully agree with what counterpart Vlajko Senic mentioned, that it is unacceptable for such events to be used for daily-political purposes and I think Mr Ilic should be ashamed of his words. Just in the term of office of this government, in which Mr. Sutanovac, the defence minister of the factory in Cačka, hired workers, became the strongest economic operator in this city, and during the ministry of Mr. Ilic, strikes in this city were everyday. So emergency events happen everywhere. I also hope there were no casualties at this time. I'm sure the representatives of the Ministry of Defence are now on the scene, but Mr. Ilic should be ashamed of this. I don't think these situations should be used for day-to-day political purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49566	MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49567	I'd just like to say, I'm looking for a right to a replica, because Mr. Senic also talked about my presentation of the flag and the Fiat in Kragujevac. I think he misread what I said. May I? Mr. Senic, first of all, let's make it clear that no one here is against the Fiat. "Fiat" is welcome to Serbia, but when it starts fulfilling its contractual obligations. For now, it is only Serbia that invests in a joint project. That's the problem. The only thing that came from the Fiat is 200m euros. You say one of our two dinars. In this year alone, we will give close to 250m euros from the budget. So Fiat should invest about 500m euros. How long was it this year? This is for the next one. How long was it this year? I don't remember anything coming from Fiat about it. So, we're making Fiat a complete infrastructure, and I'm afraid that in Article 3 I've been talking about, we're issuing a 135m-euro Fiyat Serbia guarantee, it's not exactly that capitalisation by the Fiat for the loan that we're giving the guarantee to, and if they don't get it back, we're going to pay for it again. Seems to me there's a lot of, uh, a lot of ignorance. You say everything is transparent and clear. Let someone tell us finally, how much the real state of Serbia has given in the Fiat project, that's the problem. How much Fiat has been involved in this so far. If we keep talking – we have a bright future ahead of us, that is, projects are waiting for us, cars are waiting for us. (President: Time) But people, stay away from it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49568	Time. Mr. Vlajko Senic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49569	The last replica of this one. I think any further debate on this matter is pointless. So either there'll be production or there won't be. It's not a promise that can disappear or hide. Either the state in partnership with Fiat will make a failed Kragujeva flag factory that will be one of the dizzinesss and a new export strategy for which we all stand together, or it will not be. We say it will be. We say that everyone has fulfilled their share of obligations, although for the past two years it has been a time of terrible economic crisis, although I am sure, seeing that you are very serious about the economy, you were able to track to what extent Fiat itself had problems in Italy, precisely because he decided to move a large part of his production into Serbia, driven by economic logic that production here is more efficient and profitable for the company. No one expects them to come to Serbia and invest for any patriotic reasons or good relations between Serbia and Italy, but because they have found their economic interest and Serbia has made an effort to find that economic interest here. That's it. We are absolutely behind this, and the state will make this project come true for your pleasure next year. I think that, part of the energy that you've spent on correcting some of the other faults you're responsible for, we've invested as you've invested in the attempt and the desire to fail this project, I think it would be much better for the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49570	Mr. Mašić. You, as an authorised representative, have nine minutes left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49571	I just wanted to say with a few words, since it's mentioned here why Fiat was put under so much prism of observation this year, I think it was placed, first of all, in relation to the total amount of funds allocated in this budget. I think they're inaccessible compared to what Fiat's invested in the past period. If some 30,000 Punta have been produced so far, and this is information from a few months ago, and on the other hand we have only a few countries that produce several hundred thousand cars, that about 500,000 cars are produced in Hungary, and in Slovakia about 900,000, and in the Czech Republic over a million and 100,000 cars, then it should be asked whether this project is real for this country and whether it is the right direction of investment in the automotive industry and how objectively it can bring good in this country. Especially with regard to the responsibilities taken over by individuals and politicians, above all, will someone be held accountable if it is definitely estimated that this is a utopian project. According to us, so far, as it goes, it turns out to be a utopian project. I just want to say that this year, two positions totalling nine billion and one hundred thirty million dinars for Fiat, one of five billion and five hundred, the other of four billion and ninety-five million. What I'm saying is that only one position of four billion and ninety-five million could settle the total milk premium in the production volume of one billion liters. So two-thirds of the milk produced in Serbia could be subsidized by these four billion, with five dinars per litre of milk produced. Ask yourself now if there is any justification for what we say, that it should be invested in a larger scale of agriculture or invested in a project that has not produced any results so far. We think we should invest this time and for the next years by this country in agriculture, not in Fiat as a car project.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49572	Dejan Nikolic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49573	President-in-Office, Your Honor, I have read the opposition's amendments very carefully and many of them bring nothing new, simply most of them probably the minister and will not accept it. However, I must point out, and I must refer to the presentation of MP Velimir Ilic, who has very tendingly offended the dignity of this assembly. In fact, Minister Sutanovac is a minister who has succeeded with a relatively small budget finally to complete the military's professionalisation, which has lasted more than 15 years. Minister Sutanovac managed to raise the military's trust. The Serbian Army now has trust that it has never had before. He managed to put the military industry on its feet, which was on its knees by 2008, when Minister Sutanovac became military minister and defence minister. Mr. Ilic, I must remind you that the biggest explosion occurred right in the barracks in Paracino when he was in power. Also, I must remind you that when Minister Ilic was in power in Cacca, hunger was being striked, and today there is work for everyone. These are the facts we need to talk about today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49574	MP Veroljub Arsic. Under this amendment? No, you have no right to a replica, there was nothing vague. You had one line, you have no right. Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Ivan Andric, Natasa Micic, Zoran Ostojić, Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted together to the 3rd amendment. MP Bojan Djuric has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49575	President-in-Office, Minister, I don't know if everything will go south, as one of the predecessors said, but I do know that two companies, two giant losers, "Serbiagas" and "JAT Airways" will never, as long as these governments are so broadly promising and sharing guarantees for their business. We have recently, 15 days ago, here practically confirmed a JAT guarantee of almost 52m euros. Already through this budget, the state is obliged to make a guarantee only for the next year compared to a 140m-euro JAT and Serbia's to cover the current liquidity of 210m euros. These two guarantees, i.e. the amount of these two guarantees, are far greater than the amount of the total subsidies for agriculture in 2011. You here, in an explanation that you reject our amendment, give practical reasons why you do so and say it would make it impossible for these two companies to be in debt on the market and on the most favourable terms of business banks. Although you're giving a different explanation why it's better for the state to guarantee against "Serbiagas" and "JAT". The reasons you're giving for JAT would practically lead us to conclude that JAT is a successful company that can otherwise be in charge of the market itself, but because of a more favourable handle and more favourable some of the other conditions of the state should guarantee this loan. On the other hand, for "Srbigas", you do not give such an explanation, which is rather strange to me, since it is a company that has more activity in the past two years than the Serbian government has, even this Serbian government has a portfolio. I would say that it is then a successful company that has no reason to ask the state for a guarantee to cover its current indifference, especially given the certain cynicism that you are finishing your argument, which you say the state will at some point exercise its regressive right in relation to these two companies. You know very well that it will never happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49576	Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Milentijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49577	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Madam Minister, the debate in principle has often been heard by speakers who support this government to demonstrate with this budget a high level of political, social and social responsibility. In response to the amendment I submitted on behalf of the DSS Group, the government apparently demonstrates passion, insolence and insolence. I'll tell you what's going on. I would ask Mrs. Minister to listen to me because it is something that is unacceptable for the Government of the Republic of Serbia and for this National Assembly. I submitted an amendment to Article 3, which asked for the budget to increase the item for the construction of a water pipeline in the north of KIM, where the government apparently reduced the amount by a million and 230,000 euros. The explanation and response to the amendment of the Government of the Republic reads - the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the Government subsequently detected a technical error in respect of the amount foreseen for the borrowing of the municipalities of Kosovo Mitrovica, Zubin Potok and Zvečan and submitted the amendment of the National Assembly. Madam Minister, I ask you, why did you stand as Government when you had the amendment ready? It's not a technical mistake, it's a budget you wanted to cut off for that project a million and three hundred thousand. That's one thing. Secondly, you say that the proposed amendment does not need to be incorporated into Article 3. Law on the 2011 budget of the Republic of Serbia. Did you delete Article 3 from the Serbian budget if it is not necessary to enter these millions and three hundred thousand? Then why don't you delete Article 3 in the Serbian budget? Is that a mistake? How can you approve a new law for something you didn't introduce in the budget? Do you mean by rebalance to achieve that? The second thing, apparently, was that in previous discussions of MPs from the ruling party there were words that the government was proving that it had not left the battle for KIM. I'll remind you of the numbers that she has left the fight for KIM, both politically, socially and economically. The 2008 budget was 72m, 771m euros. It's the government's budget for Vojislav Kostunica. In 2009, you reduced the budget to 49 million 151 thousand or 33%. You reduced your budget for 2009 by 33% compared to 2008. The 2010 budget was projected to 42 million and reduced by 41% compared to 2008. The budget for 2011 is 40m euros. You've reduced it by 44%. How is that possible? 41/1 LjS/MS 18.50-19.00 You said you increased transfers to other levels of government. Did you do this, did the government do this for the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija and for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija? How much did you increase there? That's one thing. The second thing, if the technical error in the amendment was made by the Government, apparently not, did you consciously make these mistakes to reduce from 2008 by 44% of the Kosovo and Metohija budget? Do you think that's how you'll protect Kosovo and Metohija? That's not how you take care of yourself. Do you think in dialogue with Pristina you will compensate for the funds needed for Serbs for Kosovo and Metohija?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49578	People's MP Smiljana Milisavljevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49579	Mr. Milentievich, it is true that I said that the government did not leave the battle at KIM with this budget. We know that at the time of Vojislav Kostunica's rule, big money went to Kosovo, but we also know that many of your owners bought apartments in London, so think about it. As far as this budget is concerned, I spoke in principle, in the debate, and just to inform my colleagues and citizens. So today he entered the assembly procedure of the bill to provide guarantees, meaning, about giving guarantees for the responsibilities of these municipalities: Kosovo Mitrovica, Zvecan, Zubin Potok, with a proposal to put it into an emergency procedure. I asked the finance minister if the government has mechanisms. The government has shown that there are mechanisms to solve this problem. So I knocked on the open door. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49580	Replica, Mr. Vladimir Milentijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49581	I'd agree with you, but that story has been going on for three years. That story of yours lasts three years, just for corruption, for apartments, for all of this. I beg of you, unlike me, who makes arguments that stand on paper, that stands. Please prepare such arguments right now and prove it to the MPs, in front of the law enforcement authorities, if that's the case. That's not what I'm talking about, and it's a coot story. Unlike you, I'll repeat, you heard responsible today on the KIM Committee what is being done there, what means and how are they available? You know how much funds were used and you heard that, we were all baffled with some reports. I'm talking about having to get a little serious and move to improve the life of Serbs in KIM. This draft budget does not show this, because if I say that it has been reduced by 44% compared to 2008 then it is too much, unlike all the budget commitments that have gone up. What you're talking about is corruption, crime, you've raised suspicions about the water supply and the water supply project, you have to prove it. As far as I know, she's been lost all year, because there were more suggestions on what the project would look like. The best solution was sought and this one was lost all year, with the CIP as well. With the CIP, which, I say responsibly knows what he's doing and with the district chief who belongs to your party and with the Ministry is looking for the best solution, and there's lost time, and there's no doubt about it. Believe me, I have information that this pipeline will cost less than the government's proposed water supply.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49582	Replica, MP Smiljana Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49583	Mr. Milentievich, you know perfectly well that last year, I think we were at a meeting together, actually it was a cocktail, when I asked the presidents of the municipalities and Zvečan and Zubin Potok to do something. I offered cooperation, and I said I'd do everything I could in Belgrade. They said, "Well done, for the first time." Absolutely no one called me after that. I've seen that there's really no such thing as will. What really resonates, how much money has gone to Kosovo, and let's look at ourselves and see what's been done. Nothing's been done. If there was a will, we could have made some university, a Harvard guy, so we could gather the whole region, and we couldn't build a water line together. That's really scary.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49584	There is no further dialogue. There was an answer, no offense, you made yourself clear. Please, we're moving away from the agenda point. National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Here you go, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49585	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this story of our cruel reality in Kragujevac, and regarding the Fiat, I will continue from another aspect. You know best, Mrs. Djukić-Dejanović, just like I do, because we live the life of our fellow citizens there, that the greatest and most important resource for a country is actually human life and the ability of man to work and live from his work. What happened before we entered the debate in particular, that 800 workers were left without being able to find a job at the new Fiat factory in Kragujevac, a big scam of people who trusted Boris Tadic, Mladjan Dinkic and Bozidar Djelic on May 6th, when they promised a project to produce new car models A and B classes, we will now see what it will be and if this production goes on in 2012. So people were tested, they didn't have the opportunity to look at their tests. They were promised that if they were not admitted to work at the Fiat factory, they would get a job, it was promised in 2008, Mrs Dragutinovic, in one of the co-operative factories. There's no such thing as a factory, and they don't have a chance. You will now give them 300 euros per year of internship. What do they do with it? We can't open another flea in Kragujevac. He had one that was made, people who got that money, who went to the WHO, invested in those gigs or spent on paying kids high school fees, back-up electricity bills. It's hard to live. I will conclude with this data: In 2000, so, after the bombing and restoration of the Zastava factory, where several plants were completely destroyed by evil NATO bombs, there were 10,000 in Kragujevac, 2,700 welcomed the arrival of the Fiat, and today only 1,153 workers are working there. Say, then, Mrs Dragutinovic, how can any of you, and first of all Boris Tadic and these two who came with him on 6 May 2008, cheat the Kragujevcans to vote for them? I now claim that, with the SAA and the Fiat, it is too much for you to fool people and get so many votes in the elections, as if you come out of their sight now that you have 800 people in the range of 41 to 48 years, who no longer have any future in the city where I live, and where is Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic from? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49586	The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Marina Toman submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buha, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49587	Ladies and gentlemen, we have a classic example of how this government works. In Article 3 of what the SRS has been suggesting for years, conditions and means of granting a guarantee by the Republic of Serbia towards certain entities from the economic, economic, financial system of the Republic of Serbia have been defined. This is how the Ministry of Finance works and how the government doesn't even work, and I'm going to show that on this case from the amendment that I filed. The SRS challenged her, and I, for her sake, challenged this kind of work. In Article 3, the JAT technique is scheduled to receive 2.5m euros in hangar construction. What is in particular is unclear from the answer I received on this amendment, and it is unlikely that the finance minister and all those who have worked, because it is not an analysis, is not an analysis of the requirement that comes from public enterprises, as is evident from what I am about to read. You are saying in response to this amendment – the amendment is not accepted for reasons why JAT technique is necessary to be entrusted under the most favourable conditions with business banks with a state guarantee in order to build a hangar. He says this - the existing hangar has no workshop, locker room, a storage space for investing parts of the engine plane, and has no function, except for parking for aircraft during the winter period. So, if he didn't, how could he work? How is JAT technique and formed, if there isn't what's listed here? Is the loan taken? Mrs Dragutinović, do you see from this whether it is taken to build a hangar? As far as I know, JAT technique has tens of thousands of built spaces, hangars, and you say there's no workshop, no locker room, no storage space, no function at all. Then how can a JAT technique work? There's a hangar, tens of thousands of acres of space, and you're now going to give a guarantee through this to invest 5 million euros for hangar 2. What's this about? Did you read that request? You're not. Did your services read that request and run an analysis? No, they're not. Three billion euros is guaranteed through this budget. Very unseriously, this is not how the smallest local community in the Republic of Serbia works.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49588	The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic, who has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49589	It disappears here, agony, with this $5 million. Madam Minister, I have proposed my amendment that you really deny the possibility of issuing a guarantee that JAT is in charge of the new 140m euros. Here we held a bile debate of about 51m euros. You gave guarantees for the loan that JAT got at Socita Bank, I don't know if they pulled that loan. They should be pulling him by the end of the year. There was a bile debate here. Your party's representatives desperately defended both leadership and politics and him as a national brand, that JAT. Then the same party and the same government changed after 10 days of directors, and everyone who participated in all this and made their comments through the public, and the statements agreed precisely with the SRS' position, which I stated at the time that the company should or should enter into bankruptcy or liquidation. Look, here in an explanation, I'm convinced you didn't write this, because I know what your position is about JAT. After all, you said then in that session of the Assembly, that we should bring him into bankruptcy, but that we would not go to that side and into that story. Be careful what it says here – revitalization of the airline and training the fleet to work on engines, along with the above, which will expand JAT Airways and improve its business and competitiveness on the market. IFC was doing a radio study, Rolshid was doing a privatisation strategy. Now you've entrusted this job to Dillon. All the unknown names, not sonorous, we've never listened to them before. All say in their estimates and strategies that this can't even bring this company to zero and the government puts its head in the sand and gives them the right to withdraw the new 140m euros in credit, while at the government's telephone session they decide in April this year to form a new firm. Now I ask you, gentlemen of the government, will these 140 million, if they withdraw, 5 million of which Mr Buha spoke and 50m euros that you have already given to withdraw, or that you have granted a loan, when a new firm is created and when a strategic partner, whose burden they will become, the burden of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the budget of the Republic of Serbia, or will these debts be accepted by a new strategic partner? They're not crazy, they don't come up with it to do it, but you'll do everything worth it, I'll repeat it twice, I've said it once before, everything that's worth it at JAT then you'll bring into the new firm, you'll enter positive contracts, slots, assets, optimal number of employees, everything worth it, so such a company, as well as "Fiyat" that comes here to a no-border man, everyone wants to take, and the debts and problems will remain the government of the Republic of Serbia, the budget and all of us. That's why we suggest that you don't issue new guarantees and keep at least what can be preserved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49590	Both MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted to the 3rd amendment. Mr. Djuric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49591	Thank you. President-in-Office, Madam Minister, we have also submitted an amendment to Article 3 which we have proposed that the guarantees issued by the state of Serbia be reduced by JAT. It is absolutely unacceptable for the state to issue guarantees for a new JAT debt of 140m euros. We believe that the state should sell to a national air carrier, as is the case in most European countries, because JAT has proved to be a great loser, to be extremely irrational. In addition to this, the fact that JAT management was changed a few days ago. Last year alone, the JAT loss was around 23m euros, and the loss is estimated to be over 25m euros this year. You had offers you didn't use from Russian and Indian airlines. If you had accepted these offers for the purchase and strategic partnership, JAT would now probably be developing as a regional air traffic leader, and would not have stagnated and burdened Serbia's budget, i.e. all Serbian citizens. So I think it's absolutely unacceptable to issue this guarantee. We invite you to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49592	The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic, who has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49593	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we believe this loan with the World Bank is, to say the least, not favourable to the Republic of Serbia. First of all, it's a liberal interest which is now at six months of 0.46% and can be said to be relatively favourable. But there's a variable margin, you don't know what amount, it doesn't say, we haven't seen it, and I'll remind you that the libor, you know, was over 6% in 2000. So, if the loan lasts until 2029 anything is possible, it's possible that the libor will be six months over 6% again. We also believe that in an explanation of why this amendment is being rejected, it is said that these 100m euros, which are covered by the amendment, will lead to an appropriate legal framework for promoting the measure to increase competition in the Republic of Serbia's market. That 100m euros, because of the public I'm going to say, is directed towards a kind of private development, which we have nothing against, and the financial sector. This is where we come to the basic purpose of this amendment. Here, money is taken to develop foreign banks in the territory of the Republic of Serbia or EU banks which are monopolies and which, with the help of the former governor, did not allow any competition not from the EU to appear in the financial sector. First of all, I mean the Russian banks that have been trying to get into this market for years and I don't see why competition in the financial sector wouldn't show up on the other hand, so on the other hand, so on the other hand. the alternatives by which the EU is all that exists in economic terms. So if we know that the biggest interest in Europe, after Moldovan, in the Republic of Serbia, if we know that the EU banking sector that is acting monopolisticly here is so bold that it is half-opening Governor Shosquatch, who is trying to introduce some order of new law, then clearly it is not about any competition, any kind of regulation of the financial sector, but once again fulfilling a kind of economic pressure from the EU. That I am right and that we are right shows the very fact that the budget is called for some pathetic statement by Aki communiqué on compliance with European legislation at a time when the EU is unable to bring the first budget after the Lisbon Treaty, but it has to divide the 2010 budget into 12 months and thus fund it in fact next year. So there's a difference between reality, there's a difference between the phrases about the EU that there's no alternative, and we think that the funds can be used much better -- for social needs, for giving subsidies to businesses, for giving subsidies to agriculture, for raising student and student standards, and what we don't say, and here we're going to show that we disagree with another fake dog, and that's the dogma that we don't need to increase pensions during the crisis. We believe that you should and I will give you an example of the Russian Federation where pensions have increased during the crisis and now they have, you know that, your colleague Minister Kudrin said that, will grow around 4% of gross domestic product. So, it's no big deal, if it helps those who have the most difficulty in the pension crisis, if additions are given to those who are socially at risk, it can be put in economic terms and on the other hand the problem and see that increased spending on domestic businesses leads to one growth in the economy, even if it happened in Russia. Think about it, and do not blindly follow the World Bank, the IMF and the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49594	The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49595	In Article 3, part B in Table 2 is projected as the first point of a billion and 650 million dinars for the reconstruction of the Belgrade Palace of Justice facility. Therefore, the loan from the European Investment Bank provides for funding, i.e. reconstruction of the Court of Justice. With this amendment, I asked that simply this point be eliminated from this table b. I believe that during a time of this kind of economic crisis and this kind of disaster and disaster that has hit the citizens of Serbia, it is indeed deplaced to be the reconstruction of an object, and so was the Court of Justice. It should really take a whole, Mrs. Minister's day, to list what's more than just funding from the reconstruction of the Court of Justice. For a really long, long time we'd have to list all those items, all those things that at this point will be done rather than this. But this is not the first time this government has worked so-called. the budget of the compromise. It is clear to us that all ministries should be satisfied, the ministers' appetites should be satisfied, the political parties' appetites should be satisfied, but in the context of not accepting the amendments, the government says that these Courts of Justice have been built on some skeletal system of construction with many glass, that air conditioning is not good, that summers are really great heat in holding the trial, etc. You know, I'm sure all those people who come to the Palace of Justice with empty stomachs and thirst for justice, I don't think they'd notice when you reconstruct this facility that it's going to have a climate. They are interested in something else, and the construction and reconstruction of the Court of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office costs citizens five billion dinars or about 45m euros. You could see in this morning's contribution to state television that a northern European state in its 2011 budget did not provide for money even to build a travel infrastructure for 2011, and you predict for some other things and this is really not at all the best said, this is not the domestic business of this government at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49596	The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 3rd Amendment. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49597	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the amendments to the SRS aim to reduce public spending and certainly reduce the deficits that are incredibly 120 billion 519.908,000 dinars. In Article 3rd part under b), Table 2, you predicted that in 2011, the Republic of Serbia would approve projects and programme loans up to 409.382.332.888 dinars by borrowing from various White World banks. Among other things, with the EIB you plan a debt of 73,700,000 dinars and for the construction of the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, on Knez Milos Street in Belgrade, you plan 1,650,000 dinars or 15m euros. We in the SRS believe that at this point it is absolutely unnecessary cost, and that is why we have suggested that this item be deleted, given the fact that representatives of the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office and now located somewhere are not working on the street. They may be in some kind of tight space, but they have some space anyway. We even know that he's not cramped and that he has pretty good working conditions. On the other hand, the government has proposed, and the assembly has accepted that the number of prosecutors has been reduced by 800 in Serbia. The question of one cost that has been shown in this budget is who will be responsible because these 800 prosecutors, who have not been re-elected, have been paid and are not working for more than a year? It is also one of the burdens on this budget and says that you are irresponsible, irresponsible and pest control and it best shows this budget, and your silence on all our comments, Mrs Dragutinović. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49598	National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49599	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I am sorry that you are the money of Serbian citizens coming into the budget equal to the mask. You know when there's a lot of it that's how it's used. Here are 15m euros for the construction of the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office building on the street in Knez Milos, Belgrade, and now you're explaining to us who we can read and who we know about, that the prosecution was founded in 2008. I thought it was founded in the 14th century, when someone in the king's name was doing some jobs at the time, and later it became a protection of state interests, not in 2008. For you, 2000 is a zero year. Is this world starting since 2000 or is it something earlier? You've analyzed the budgets of Lazar Pachu here. In addition to you absorbing it well, probably from what we've said, we've assessed you to understand. Go to one of our villages sometime and hurry while there are still citizens there, so you'll see, ask them if when they have a chance to buy a field or to finish a room or renovate something, what will they do? The government of the Republic of Serbia should also behave. On the side of what our justice reform is like. I'm not talking about it at all, I'm talking about what's more important in these difficult times. What one of my colleagues said could be half a day to list what to do and where money should be invested sooner than it is in the reconstruction of the building or the complete construction of the building. In your explanation, you further state that this money should be used to build a special court, to be close, to be at its best. It might be best for Serbian citizens to raise money in the Republic of Serbia's budget only for the salaries of those who have to perform certain functions. Because, of the 15m euros planned for building buildings and prosecutors, one in five million will end up in some pockets that promote and develop corruption and crime. So it would be better not to build it up, and many of it benefits, and you keep your mouth shut. You can't look like that, because one day you'll be responsible. It's not said in vain that only you are satisfied with this budget, and I think you should have the least reason to be satisfied. It's really like that. Because these aren't your funds or mine. These are the funds of all citizens and you, from the position of the finance minister, must take care of them.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49600	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49601	Article 3(b) says this: Dear citizens, in 2011 Boris Tadic and his coalition partners will be in charge of the state for 409 billion dinars. This is the dinar equivalent of different loans and loans in euro and in dollars. What does that mean in translation? This means that foreign exchange will somehow come, based on closed contracts, in 2011. When those foreign exchanges come, they should turn into dinars. Or to be sterilized. Now, in those big terms, there's the most common thing. In fact, 35% goes to those who give those funds abroad. The rest, when it receives a cash amount, will not be paid to investors, as there is now a debt for the Supreme Cassation Court, and I have submitted an amendment and asked for a 200m-euro loan to be deleted under Roman 6. for what Serbia owed next year to the European Commission, which is a loan for macro-financial assistance. You can interpret this macro-financial aid any way you want. And what's our guarantee? The government says that July 5th, o.g., remember, July 5th was before July 22nd, and on July 22nd, an advisory opinion was adopted, which, you know, made this illegally-legal in Kosovo and Metohija, and on July 5th, these knew what would happen and conditioned the European Commission and they concluded the memorandum. It is a memorandum on the sale of Kosovo and Metohija. Under the memorandum, 200m euros are more important to them, to fill out some of their coalition agreements and agreements than any square centimetre of the country's Serbia. That's the savings. And not just saving, but stamping. We are branding for all time this found, pro-European policy that means the destruction of the Republic of Serbia. They are in charge of those who kidnap Kosovo and Metohija. And in order to avoid kidnapping without anything, let's take 200 million to ensure macroeconomic stability. You know what? To return loans to these in the EU and allegedly to help the fallen economy. Who can you help when you don't pay for electricity, or water, or heating, or the works done that the builders, by chance, have come to work with you? You're just paying off foreign companies doing work in Serbia. You don't pay domestic companies anything. You destroyed the construction industry. You claim it in your statistics. Here's to you if you adopt a bill like this on the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49602	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Sladjan Mijaljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49603	President-in-Office, Madam Minister, I have submitted an amendment to amend point 6 of Table 7 in Article 3(b), which is to delete, which reads: "Air procurement for the needs of the Government". When I read this, I laughed first, and then I followed. I just can't believe it. I share your concern that you have the fear of flying planes that are 19 or 29 years old, but there are commercial flights, there's a business class, there's a first class. It's just that you can organize yourself nicely so you can travel with those planes. You're really bringing us into some situation that we have to react maybe even more brutally than we'd like to, but I'd like to say one parole right now – expertise above politics. I ask you, experts, where did you make that money for this plane? Where did you make 30 million for this plane? You earned it where every seven citizens of Serbia are now below the poverty threshold. You earned it where they cut their body parts to get you to know that they exist. You earned it where they don't have a job. Here, the Kragujevac workers want to take your city. Not the government building, but the city wants to take over. You're starting to cause social riots or social rebellion. You want a plane. I think every normal man should be used for what he does and what he earns. Since you've invested huge funds in Punto, I suggest you travel the Punto. Why do you need a plane? Secondly, I don't know where you got the courage. I really wouldn't have the courage to get on that plane, and I wish you a happy flight.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49604	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mrs Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49605	Madam President, tell me, please, how much time is left for the SRS parliamentary group? (President: 44 minutes. Thank you very much. This amendment is similar to the other amendments submitted by the SRS parliamentary club to Article 3. The position of our parliamentary club is that in the difficult years of the crisis it is necessary to truly apply the principle of savings. In his brief address to the National Assembly, representing the 2011 budget, Prime Minister Cvetkovic pointed out that the government was in charge of key principles – savings and development. But the real situation, when you look at the draft budget law, shows otherwise. We have proposed this amendment to give up the loan intended for programme support to the 25.5 billion dinar budget or 250m euros provided for in Article 3(b) under regular number 7. It's a credit from business banks in different currencies. Over the past few years, it has been a practice to take loans to support the budget for different purposes. It is now written here that it is about programme support for the budget, and that is to say that almost no project can be implemented without taking credit. This just confirms that there is an intention to continue to spend far more than what is realistically available, and this is already not respect for the principles of savings. Many times, when adopting various loan laws, SRS MPs indicated that this was not the solution and that debts were being created for future generations. The answer of the finance minister has always been the same – we are not too in charge and there have always been comparisons with some other countries. The situation in other countries should be cared for by those who have taken responsibility for the exercise of power in those countries, and here we know who should take care of and who should worry. Everyone knows what he has and what opportunities he has, how he will repay his debts or perhaps be in a state of debt. While there is still time, it needs to stop with the established practice of continuing to take credit, as otherwise Serbia will find itself in even bigger problems. The situation is already serious. The economy is in a very bad state, citizens on the verge of endurance, without being able to regularly pay their obligations to the state in the form of taxes, without being able to work, and the state has nothing left to sell. 45/1 AD/IP 19.30-19.40 will likely be sold in this year and Telekom, perhaps a little bit of what remains to be worth, so that after that, perhaps, representatives of the authorities have a place to go, but Serbian citizens do not have a spare country. That is why it is the obligation of the authorities to try to keep it on as healthy as possible, not to make it a large debtor. In an explanation for why this amendment is not accepted, it is written as Article 5. The public debt law prescribed that the Republic of Serbia could be in debt, among other things, to finance the budget deficit. Of course, it can, but the question is whether it should always be and whether it is justified.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49606	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49607	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Article 3rd point B, Cyrillic B, refers to the funds that the Republic of Serbia will grant in 2011 for projects and programme loans up to the amount, not to how much, because the figures are not as important, although they are huge, and then you interpret them, as from the World Bank, as from the European Investment Bank, the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe, the German Development Bank, the foreign government, the European Commission, the business banks and institutional investors. That is the amendment I have submitted, where you, among other things, say 27.5 billion euros are planned for loans for programme support to the budget in different currencies. Under point 3 – a loan for programme support to the budget in different currencies, but with the World Bank guarantee of $400m. The reason for this loan planning is you find support in the World Bank, which reportedly sent it on 6 October 2010, as you say - a letter of support to the Republic of Serbia, which is willing to issue a guarantee to banks selected in the procurement process. The World Bank is ready to vouch for the commitments of the Republic of Serbia by the chief loan of $400m. You and I both know that the letter of support is just an expression of goodwill. It may be, but it doesn't necessarily mean what they'd say. So, if it does, it won't be and you won't be able to raise that loan to pay off the loan. In fact, this is about taking credit to repay the loan. To be clear, we're not against the government being in charge. It's normal to be in charge. Even, these loans can go towards speeding up any country's further development, if these loans are spent on purpose and invested where we can count on making funds for the further payment of those loans. So where will the money turn faster? But if it's going to fill the gaps in the budget, and you're here to plan for exactly that, so hopefully next year's budget deficit will be even bigger than this year's, like this year's bigger than last year. We're just wondering how far? What I particularly want to say to you personally is that we would really like the finance minister to come to the Serbian Parliament and that he is pleased with the budget he has proposed to parliament. I've heard from you and noticed how you react to our remarks that you're not satisfied. That in itself says that in some ways you are either forced to propose this budget to the Assembly. Whether because of the objective circumstances in which our economy is located, whether because of the pressures you have from the IMF, or because of disagreements within the ruling coalition. It is known and normal that every minister is trying to get as much money as possible for the resort he is responsible for, and it is yours to, in the interests of the state, assess how much coma and what it takes to put the budget together. These aren't some imaginary money we're talking about, but this budget needs to be filled with the money of this poor people and this poor and almost non-existent economy. Since we all know it's small, then we have to take credit. We've already come to the point that, unfortunately, we can't repay those loans, that's all. They've arrived and already the principals have arrived for payment. Now we have to take new loans. For some of these loans, they're obviously asking us for a guarantee, either from a world bank or from some such institution. You had to plan it. We believe that we do not need such loans and that in this way we can reduce the budget expenditure by as much as you planned for this purpose. And in general, if you noticed, all these amendments are with that goal and proposed to the government. We were really trying not to jeopardize the functioning of the state at all, or any area of life in the country, yet to save where it could be saved. No matter what you declare saving, it seems to us that he is wasteful, and far from being, as you say, transparent. I remember ten years ago when you came to power, you promised a 30-page budget. Now we've got about 1,000 pages, but it's not a guarantee of the transparency of spending money. It would be much better if you were able to show both revenue and expenditure on a much smaller site and that these revenues are as much as they are, to provide as much as we can, and to take loans just for the sake of predetermined needs, so that we could return them. I really don't think any of you at the Ministry of Finance or the Government have a vision of what's going to happen in five, six, ten years on these loans, how are we going to repay them, how much longer will we have to borrow? If you went out with that vision or that kind of data, it might be easier for us to understand this much further borrowing. No, to us as MPs, we can also not understand things, but it is very important for the citizens of Serbia to know what will happen to the country for the next five, 10, 15, 20 years. Because based on how we plan to budget the state, they plan their own home budgets and know how to rule and whether to be in debt or not to be in debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49608	National MP Boris Aleksic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Miss Natasa Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49609	I'll be brief, because we don't have much time. I'm just going to ask you a question, since Mr. Alexic has submitted an amendment to which the funds you provided for the restoration of Serbia's embassy in Washington are rerouting to what is more necessary for our country. Did you ever, Mrs Dragutinovic, and this was primarily meant to be done by your predecessors, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, asked the US administration a question – when they would pay war damage to our country, after 70 years of criminal bombing by the NATO Pact? Well, the estimate is they owe us a few hundred million dollars, and the scariest part is that we human lives can't be restored. On the other hand, Serbian citizens must know that huge money from the budget was spent on October 12th, when the wife of the man who ordered the bombing, Hillary Clinton, came to Belgrade because the sky above Serbia and Belgrade was covered by MiGs and with the highest level of security by police. Therefore, citizens will never forget it, and on the other hand, America has never had any good intentions toward our country and our people. That is why we believe it was necessary for this money to be used in what is a burning issue today in the country, and I do not believe that you will ever reach the arrival of us, Serbian patriots, to power anyone to ask more questions about the bombing.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49610	National MP Dragan Stevanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49611	Here, I'll do it very briefly. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is our idea that these funds are denied not only of economic or fiscal character but of political character, above all. I say responsibly, 90% of government members have no idea who our ambassador to the United States is. I'm even saying that three-quarters of the MPs have no idea who's out there and that the gentleman who did it is just a fact that he knows someone from President Obama's office. However, one objective question is raised – what benefit does this country benefit from? Obviously, there is nothing and your obligation would be to get that man out of Washington, to bring him back here to Belgrade, since he obviously has no use for him and to save extra funds for the Republic of Serbia's budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49612	National MP Radojko Obradovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49613	Madam President, Mrs Dragutinović, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Article 3 refers to the state of public debt and my amendment, I am quite surprised why it was not accepted, because the amendment was made precisely to bring the budget and archives, or statistics of the Ministry of Finance, into line with what the State Auditor's objection was made, because the State Auditor recommended on page 385, he could not be different from recommending that statistics be harmonised on public debt. In response to why the amendment is not accepted, the amendment was said not to be accepted because the public funding bulletin does not cover commitments to the IMF. It's a rather unusual explanation. What's this about? First, every serious person has to know who and what he owes. Do we know who the Republic of Serbia owes and how much? According to the Ministry of Finance's official recognition, I cannot use a different term than that, our external debt is slightly less than six billion euros. The National Bank says the following thing - public debt has been increased over the past few months because since September official statistics include the obligations of the Republic of Serbia to the IMF on the basis of special draw rights, i.e. of 443.5m euros, as well as reprogrammed commitments to the 276m-euro government of Kuwait. So it's statistics since September. So that debt wasn't made in September. That debt existed. Only our statistics at the Ministry of Finance didn't cover it. When you look at what the National Bank says, it claims that our external debt is 8.8 billion euros. A difference of only three billion euros. On the one hand, the auditor claims that the IMF debt is debt. The National Bank claims that the debt is far greater than it is, and the ministry says - we have our own methodology, so we don't accept everything. Here, I recommend that all citizens of Serbia do not accept future personal methodologies, let's say the electricity debt, the phone, the public subscription service, the methodology of our households and we no longer have to pay for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49614	The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic and Zoran Shami. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49615	Article 4 refers to projects related to IPA funds. I asked, no matter what they're part of the budget, that the National Assembly get information about it. Why does it matter? Here, take me back, since Article 4 is connected to Article 3, very often the National Assembly decides on giving guarantees. Every time the Assembly gives a certain guarantee, in the part which is the obligation of each law, where the price of the guarantee is written, it is said that the guarantee has no financial effect. Then seven billion dinars, 70m euros, interest on activated guarantees, appear in the budget this year. It's obvious these guarantees and how much they cost. Once again, when we look at the DRI Report, the state of Serbia was also activated in 2009, i.e. Serbia's budget had to pay guarantees on loans taken by the "Serb Railways", "Serbian Roads", and the EPS, and interest rates and principals, 3.7 billion dinars of capital and 3.2 billion dinars of interest. And how it's worth it. A similar thing with IPA funds, one part must be the participation of the Republic of Serbia and one part is from European funds. Then a minister shows up who says -- it doesn't matter what my secretary traveled to the seminar, and we don't pay it anyway, it comes from EU funds. It doesn't matter where it comes from, but I guess those funds should be used in the best possible way, and how it has to do with who goes and who doesn't go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49616	The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Arsen Đuric and Zeljko Tomic, who has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49617	Thank you. Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, respected Mrs Dragutinovic, the amendment to Article 5, we proposed that it be changed so that it reads: "in the case of income tax on citizens and contributions to compulsory social security number 1.1 is changed by 3.1 and in the total number 20.8 by 22.8". Given the apparent growth in unemployment rates over the past two years, both this year and the past, the growth in unemployment is 4%. There is a need to increase tax incentives and to exempt from paying contributions to compulsory social security based on employment, as well as the release on payment of pension contributions from 1.1 billion to 3.1 billion dinars. You are in line with which provisions of the Law on Income Tax and the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance are prescribed various tax exemptions and exemptions from the obligation to pay contributions to compulsory social security. It's all on paper like that or it looks nice, but we think this amendment would allow for more employment, especially for young people. I ask you -- where do you see it through this budget and in general through the Government of the Republic of Serbia's policy to encourage greater employment? The order is, remind yourself of the pre-election promises in 2008 and the speech of 200,000 new jobs. In the meantime, 250,000 jobs have been lost, so you are minus your own pre-election promises, and these days we are witnessing this "Serbia 2020 programme" policy, I don't know what it's called, where you promise 400,000 new jobs by 2020. If you continue at this pace, more than half of Serbia will not work. It seems to me, Mrs Dragutinovic, that you are very well aware that you are defending indefensible and that you have come here today to talk about what you need to talk about. But the facts that are only 100 metres from here, i.e. on the streets, both the Belgrade city and all of Serbia, are immeasurable, the figures are immeasurable, statistics on poverty and Serbia's unemployment have to bring down this government. That's a fact. I call on you once again, accept this amendment as a means of encouraging greater employment, nothing more than that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49618	The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Zoran Shami. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49619	Madam President, Mrs Dragutinovic, by amendment to Article 5, which refers to tax relief, I have just proposed and is not accepted to obtain all the necessary information, i.e. to analyse the effects of these tax reliefs. Tax breaks are defined for corporate tax expenditure, where the rate is one of the lowest in Europe, except Montenegro, is further encouraged by the employment of natural persons, the first apartment tax. Let's see if this helped our construction industry, because in the last two years, this is a branch that records the biggest fall. On the one hand, we subsidize and make tax breaks, and we don't have any feedback effect to see what that effect has on both citizens and our industry. If we want to help our industry, why don't we help, everyone who understands themselves in construction, knows that real help is construction if we help them with large projects, and then with them, they can work abroad with these references, like bridges. All the largest buildings in Serbia work for foreign companies, and then we keep talking about helping the domestic construction industry. How do we help them? By destroying them, and destroying them. Why can't any construction company at home be a direct contractor for any serious and big business? Why don't the state provide guarantees as we encourage foreign companies to create new jobs? Why doesn't the state give guarantees to our construction firms for foreign affairs? It was the largest export product this country has had in decades and if we were to support the construction industry, we would have much more exports than we have today.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49620	The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49621	This amendment was submitted by Mr Palalic and Mr Pejcic, who deleted this Article 6th paragraph 1, would add a new position that reads – that the AP Vojvodina budget is part of the income tax income of citizens, a profit tax of more than 17% of the amount achieved on the territory of the AP Vojvodina and part of the company's income tax of 40% of the amount achieved on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. In an explanation, Mr Palalic and Pejcic stated that the tax paid by the taxpayers on the territory of Vojvodina had been largely returned to the tax community, and in 2008 the profit tax was shared between the province of the Republic compared to the 57.3. The income tax left the province 40% share. The budget of Vojvodina, guaranteed at the level of 7% of the Republic's budget, and this is settled by the Constitution of the Republic and its value is greater than the value of all the budgets of the municipalities and cities of Vojvodina combined. This is what the Constitution has brought you, and I will remind you that the backbone of the then government that brought the Constitution was the DSS headed by Vojislav Kostunica. What is very interesting today is that four or five days, i.e. Thursday's budget for Vojvodina was adopted and is about 62 billion dinars, as much as previously. The question now arises, that just over a year ago, the Duke's statute was officially adopted and it can be determined that there is nothing of the thunderously announced new money for Vojvodina, job creation and support of the economy. We ask and find that a promise has been broken when the Duke's statutes were adopted on additional funds for the province, and there is no additional funds for the province of Vojvodina. What was happening in the province's assembly, just for the sake of public attention, was that MPs from one of the ruling parties, namely G17 plus, did not vote for the AP Vojvodina budget. What is happening in the ruling coalition, and it does not interest me, is interested in the citizens of Serbia, because as long as they pay for your own incompetence and all these disagreements that lead you and carry you, and now not only on the political field, but also on the economic, how much Vojvodina has received with that statute and these stories. I'm afraid there was more political nature here than economics, because we have a brand-new nuptialization of the Vojvodina, and nothing else will notice. I'm afraid that in all of Serbia, there is no even regional development, a lot of empty stories, a lot of nothing. I know, Mrs. Dragutinović, that you think so too, but you're still defending yourself indefensibly, but there's no need for your colleagues to share this torment with you, because even today what you've been through, it's really hard to hear and survive, but go on, try on. The citizens are aware of what you're doing with this budget and politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49622	The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic..
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49623	Article 6 refers to the financing of the AP Vojvodina. For the first time this year, when the budget was adopted, we received information that it might be close to what is a constitutional obligation. There is no special record of funds that, I'm not just talking about in transferable terms, I'm talking about all the investments and all the needs that are directed to the AP Vojvodina. The amendment is heading in this direction, to establish both fair and proper allocations of funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget. No one's talking about having to obey the Law on Local Self-Government. The commitment of the budget is to provide 1.7% of the gross social product to finance local self-government. In 2007, it was 37 billion and it was realized. In 2008, it was 40 billion, what was the legal obligation, and local self-government received only 25 billion. Next, in 2009, instead of 48 billion, only 26. This year, the increase is announced, but instead of 58 billion, it's only 32 billion. In three years local self-government has been damaged by 59 billion dinars. They're all full of mouths in the ruling coalition on decentralisation. It's decentralisation, when you give them the means to choose projects for themselves, and you won't deny a single fund that exists in the government, so the government decides what the priorities of local self-government are. If you want decentralisation, obey the Law on Local Self-Government, give the possibility that every local self-government chooses what their priority is, not to pursue itself in the ministries, within a coalition of what will be a priority. It's decentralisation, not what you're doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49624	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Budimirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7(1) and section 1 of the amendment, the People's MP, Ms Radet, submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49625	In this article, especially in this Article 7 and in all the parts to which we have submitted the amendments, the SRS's intensity will be seen, as we have already said, to reduce the budget deficit and to reduce unnecessary public spending. Section 1 of function 110, economic classification 422 refers to travel expenses of the National Assembly. You predicted this expenditure of 234 million and 89,000 dinars. We have reduced this amount by 23 million 80,000 dinars by our amendment. We believe that this is justified and that there is room for this much reduction and that surely this amount of cost reduction of travel cannot and will not endanger the functioning of parliament, especially since the functioning of parliament is not very much related to travel. We know that neither this parliament nor any other Parliament can be closed and that co-operation, communication with other parliaments is needed, but it seems to us that you have gone a little too far, especially if we know from experience that Mr Micunovic spent travel funds and guided all the travellers he chose, he never accepted the proposals of the opposition parliamentary groups. Then we have an amazing explanation why you say you cannot accept this amendment, so you say – because the draft budget assembly for 2011, is proposed in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Law on the National Assembly. Who's talking about procedure? We don't dispute the procedure, and I don't know what's funny, Madam Minister, but we do slow down the amount you predicted. In particular, for us, it is unacceptable for the SRS to tell us that the draft general budget for 2011 included in the draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the Administrative Board established on 24 November 2010. 48/1 DM/MĆ 20,00-20,10 does not determine the Administrative Board of the Budget, Mrs Dragutinović, but is determined by the National Assembly, and we have also submitted the amendment in accordance with our respective competences because what the Administrative Committee has established is not a holy letter. Imagine now that we are boundlessly trusting Nenad Constantinović, the chairman of the Administrative Committee, and that he, with the ruling majority, because they did so, is proposing such unnecessary and enormous spending on the travel expenses of representatives of parliament, or the National Assembly. Indeed, if you care to make this budget as much social responsibility as you like to say, budget, then at least at the cost of travel and at least at the cost of the Assembly's travel, you can accept the amendment and reduce those costs by 23 million and automatically reduce the deficit. Of course, you have no intention, obviously, that you do not want to participate at all in the work, you have concluded this one, and every shift and for one dollar would lead to chaos in the ruling majority and in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We also know that during the night you were scribbling this budget, etc., but it would be good if you told us some real reason and some legally relevant reason why you did not accept or an economically relevant reason why you did not accept our amendments, and not that you were telling us you can't change this because Nenad Constantinović said that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49626	On Article 7th, paragraph 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Here you go, Mrs. Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49627	Thank you very much. The amendment I made on behalf of the SRS concerns savings within the National Assembly. Given that the Assembly is often the target, above all, of the media to prepare the public for the Assembly to be the largest consumer within all state institutions, and to prepare the public for the alleged lack of 250 MPs, but it is also enough 120. For this reason, I must say to the public that here is the plan for salaries, allowances and employees' fees, and we have over 300 employees in the National Assembly and 250 MPs, 360 million. That they're constant costs, which are bills for water, electricity, insurance and the like, and we have two buildings that we have to support. The question is whether we have to and whether it's celery, but that's how you decided. That these costs are 139 million, and we're predicting savings and cost cuts. To serve by contract, I suppose it's contracts for employees, but there are other contracts, 157 million, so half, so 157 million seveny-seven thousand. That's what it says. And that's half of the total salary, pay, allowances and employees' fees, and that's where we asked for a certain reduction. Since rationalisation and use of funds in these positions is possible and this is how we reduce the budget deficit, and we all said that the objective is savings and fiscal discharge. There are 128 million dinars for buildings and construction buildings. I guess that's not the classic building maintenance, but probably the improvement of some of the conditions or what we're doing right now, or what's going on in the House of the National Assembly building, and that's the same thing for machines and equipment, 144,649,000 dinars. That's where we predicted a reduction, not much, here's to 120 million, although frankly we don't even know why it's going to be spent and what equipment it's intended for. We're still working with a stick and a rope and we're still printing the materials and we're still getting this in the papers for every computer, it's got to go off, for every phone connection, it's gotta go off. You can't even call a taxi from this phone and we don't mind, but give it to the items where the Presidency and the President of the Republic or the Government are going to also turn off some zeroes or nines, so the phone can't be used. All in all, although it is the National Assembly and we should perhaps be interested in improving the conditions, we feel that we are spending the money offered to the National Assembly irrationally and that it is the irrational use, above all, of two buildings used for the needs of the National Assembly, and it is particularly difficult to maintain such two buildings. Who can decide that? We're not alone or on our own, someone would have to initiate it to be different. Here's a proposal to save some money. I don't understand why you won't accept this amendment. I don't understand why you keep your mouth shut about all our proposals and why you don't answer, so at least you don't say for that reason and it's not acceptable for you to convince us otherwise that our amendments don't comply with the policy that you're conducting. It seems to me that you have entered the state of one lethargy and that you do not care to wait for your time to pass here, and in every serious country and serious democracy, please, Minister of Finance shakes his knees when he comes to parliament before the MPs to defend the budget. If the budget doesn't defend itself, the government goes down. You're just counting. You've provided the majority of votes for whatever you want and none of these 1,000 pages of 127, 128 that will vote have looked and you don't care what we in the opposition say, even though we're not asking for any money and we're not asking for anything from you. We're just trying to help you where you can painlessly cut costs so you have as little deficit as possible. Only if someone on the outside makes you get that deficit bigger and the state of Serbia sinks more and more. If so, then I fully understand your silence and your mood and I would feel very bad if I were you. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49628	On Article 7th, the First Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49629	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7(1), where in Section 2 of Section 2 of Title 1.1 of the economic classification 421 of fixed costs with 15,345,000 is replaced by 13 million, and travel costs with 66,408,000 are replaced by a figure of 60 million, as well as services under contract 34,554,000 are replaced by a sum of 30,000, with one savings of 13.308,000 dinars. What is characteristic here is exactly the reasoning of the Government of the Republic of Serbia that says, these two are not accepted for reasons why the reduction of the Ministry of Education's funds has been suspended and the ministry's jurisdiction has been compromised, etc., in different ways. However, I have submitted an amendment relating to a division relating to the President of the Republic, not to the Ministry of Education, so I cannot simply understand why you are not talking about the Ministry of Education when there is an amendment or there is another reason, which is that there is a president's dictatorship here at work and cannot be mentioned by the president's name. It must not be said about the government of the Republic of Serbia, not about anything. On the other hand, I wanted to take advantage of this and ask the minister, what are the effects of abolishing six local self-governments in Kosovo and Metohija and what are the effects of saving non-financing of the Kosovo and Metohija Community Assembly, regardless of what I tried to do in 2008 and 2009 on a number of occasions and personally provided you with all the necessary documents so that one such institution, such as the Kosovo and Metohija Community Assembly could function with minimal resources. Let me remind you, all the time from Vidovdan 2008 to today, you have not given a single penny and to honor you. 49/1 MO/MS 20.10-20.20 May I remind you that at the cabinet session you have recognised that institution and that is only your concern for the Serbian people and for what Serbs do not space Kosovo and Metohija. On the other hand, I can tell you that one of the reasons you don't want to finance it, and you don't want minimum funds to separate it, we used the first few months of the phone, and then you shut down that phone, is because you can say everything that the people think, and you obviously don't like what the people think, but you have to say what foreign employers are saying and what Brussels and Washington are saying, and not what's going on with the people. So at these meetings, at these meetings of the Community Assembly, words are heard as a traitor government, a traitorous president. Normally, in the spirit of this, we too bear the consequences that there is no funding of such an institution, regardless of what is recognised by the Serbian government and local self-government, although it is called upon by this RS government, normally to weaken the Serbian Corps in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, and to get out and to carry out orders from Brussels and Washington, to weaken the Serbian Corps, to destroy the Serbian institutions, which have now become parallel, and to force the Cypriot institutions in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. That's it. Just once again to thank you for the effort you promised to help you find some way to help fund it. Carry on like this and we will, regardless of what you do not want to help us, continue to work and I think that this assembly of communities will continue to function, despite the lack of assistance and support from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49630	On Article 7th, paragraph 1 of the second amendment was tabled by MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49631	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, this is my big contribution to reducing the deficit and what I'm going to explain with this amendment fits into those 30 billion that need to be reduced. Very simple and simple. I don't know why the state would be in charge of increasing the cost of the President of the Republic. I mean the President of the Republic as a state body, not this other, but a state body. You see, Serbian citizens, the president of the Republic as a state body, will cost you almost 243 million dinars. Of these, 242 million will be from the budget, said taxpayers, international loans, etc., and will receive only a million dinars a donation. This is where you planned 66 million for your official trip. I suggested that it be reduced by six million. However, the state body should exist, so it should not now take all 66 million, but be left with 60 to cricket Serbia. I believe that he ended up with apologies abroad, because he was sinful in his youth, so wherever he appears, he has to apologize, and he's only suffered damage from travel abroad. Tell me one peace mission, one good deed done during a trip abroad. He's gone. Only when he goes there to get a task of what he needs to do, etc. Next, favors by contract, what's he doing with it? He's got everything for free. To be advised by someone? God forbid, those who advise him, disaster. Mickey Rakic, then Cvian... He's no longer a Florist, a flower, as he was, I don't know, a flower of some. Jovan Rakic, Shaffer... - Is it Shaffer? Well, Krstic. There's what you want, as long as you want there. Of course, I'm counting on this whole National Office thing not to be seen here, too, but I don't know what the President of the Republic of the People's Office will do when he's got the whole government. Unless he wants to go through the People's Office to control what they're doing in the government, but he already has all the resistance in his cabinet. Then he's got that military part. He's not here in this position, he's with the Department of Defense. So he's got everything. He probably still lacks video surveillance for all of Serbia, but in some municipalities where Democrats are in power there is already video surveillance. In Rakovica you can't move, Milic in the office has right from every building, picks up and sees if something weird isn't happening. God forbid someone sets up an illegal facility in a location where he imagined to be an illegal object. So I'm counting if the position decreases and the total cost for the President of the Republic, as a state body, then we'll be less in charge. This is purely economically justified. From the point of view of politics, turbo justified. I really think after every time we draw a line to see what a plus is, what a minus. It's not even neutral, it's all down to a minus. So that's what foreign policy is, that's what these activities are. With 60 million, he can go to Serbia, Tara to play basketball, etc. It can take Serbia, it's not a problem, but in debt to the citizens of RS, so when payments are re-indebted, then re-programme, so guarantees, so this, and that, and the effect of zero, I don't think it's justified. I don't think it's justified. At a time of crisis, everyone needs to tighten the belt. How did the local self-government for these two years go for 50 billion? Like these pensioners tightened their belts, they gave up synchronizing pensions. What do they need with pension coordination? You tightened the belt, you moved another hole to make it better. Those holes on this side, the mobsters, the hole on the other side. They're getting fatter and fuller, strong, businessmen. I'm sure Mrs. Coloway will support this amendment. This is a real contribution to the stabilisation of public finances. Mrs Dragutinović really shouldn't, she's part of the team. However, she is playing with numbers, but counts that you, as the political leader of the ZES, will be committed to supporting these amendments, because we are reducing the government's debt by 33 billion. (President: Just don't talk, please, to the MPs, but to Parliament. Did you say something, Mrs. Djukic? You're going to vote yes? Nice to meet you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49632	I told you not to speak to Mrs. Kolundji. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49633	Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to the draft law on the RS budget for 2011. In Article 7(1), the amount "818. 344. 423. 1,000 is changed by the amount of "818." 343. 107. "thousands." In Article 7 paragraph 2 of Section 3 of Chapter 3.2 of function 110, economic classification 423, contract-based services — amount 10. 009. 1,000 is replaced by 9 million. The economic classification of services by contract is often the subject of abuse, which is confirmed by the DRI, and there is always room for savings in this position. The goal is savings and fiscal discharge. With this draft budget, you give 60m euros to NGOs. The group includes the Serbian Orthodox Church and the Sports Federation, but is expected to receive less than 50% of the funds. More than 50% belong to NGOs that advocate gay and lesbian rights, as well as Sonja Licht, who was a sponsor of the Resistance and other anti-Serbian organisations. Let us remember that Chief Sonja Licht, Zor Soros, signed a mental petition for Serbia's bombing. Instead of giving them over 30m euros, it would be better to increase the amount to maintain pregnancy from 65% to 100%. For that money you can raise 30 hospitals, 30 schools or 30 kindergartens. It is clear to every normal person that 30 hospitals and kindergartens are worth much more than NGOs, which money from Serbia's budget spend on promoting a variety of perversions. We in the SRS are in favour of healthy Serbia, while DS and its partners promote sick Serbia. That's why this government has to end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49634	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49635	The amendment was made in the context of the intention and the desire of the SRS to reduce bureaucracy in these times of crisis. It is a single savings of about 20,000 euros, and we think it is one act that could be a good government gesture at a time when pensioners and all those who are threatened with politics that the EU has no alternative and the IMF dictatorship are very difficult to live on. We are not clear in the context of this amendment and the entire budget as it is possible for the paper and the public to give the phrases that public administration should be reduced, the number of MPs etc, and on the other hand, European bureaucracy in Serbia is increasing. I will give you a concrete example, which is in the case of the European Office for the EU's accession to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. At the moment of the biggest economic crisis in the last 40 years, expenditure for the EU's accession office is going up 100%. There's no economic justification for that. On the other hand, around 700,000 euros are being reduced for the health ministry. Freely speaking, this means that more important European bureaucracy in Serbia is more important than the sick and those whose resources are most needed. There's no excuse for that. Let's add this and the amazing information that we warn year after year, that due to customs, we have a minimum loss of 100m euros in our budget. Imagine if those 100m euros were converted into grants for agriculture? Or should it focus on cities and municipalities? Or should it focus on our pensioners? The budget would be 20% higher. That's not a small percentage. Imagine that 100 million euros to focus on building infrastructure? However, there is no political will, and I responsibly argue that there is no political and economic courage in the government of the Republic of Serbia to oppose a policy that obviously brings nothing good in economic terms, and that policy can be defined by the phrase that the EU has no alternative. We think there's an alternative, and I'm going to give you another example that shows it. I'll give you JAT's notice. Two or three years ago, Russia's Aeroflot offered to take over all employees, all debts, modernise the fleet and make JAT a prominent company in the region again. What happened? Because of the agreement on the so-called "Free Sky" with the EU, the job has failed. We have now come two years into the situation that, behold, miracles, credits must be taken right from the EU banks to keep JAT on the surface so-called. So, we are not going to co-operate with the Russians, we are not going to co-operate with those who have concrete plans and concrete investments, but because of the phrase that the EU has no alternative to taking unfavourable loans and continue to borrow from both the European Investment Bank and the European Development Bank and all those banks that appear to be domestic banks in this budget, which is not true. These are all EU banks, including "Intezu" and all the other banks that impose interest rates on us here in this budget, because every interest that is 8%, you will admit that the interest rate is not an economic justification for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49636	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49637	President-in-Office, Madam Minister, I have submitted an amendment in Article 7 to remove some six million dinars in one item's contract, which is certainly less than 30m euros for that plane. Services under contract are meant to hire someone outside the state administration or double their business. In any case, you'll agree that in such a difficult economic situation, we need to save as much as possible. Because you yourself were in 2003, when I say I mean the DOS that enslaved this Serbia as NATO infantry, so in 2003 you brought in a strategy on poverty prevention in Serbia. The main goal was to take in seven years, i.e. this year 2010 this poverty reduced or reduced by as much as 50%. Something doesn't seem to me that you've succeeded in that, even I think you've achieved the opposite effect, or that you've raised one 500% of poverty in Serbia. On the other hand, you have dozens of agencies working within the government, around the government, etc., and now you need money for services by contract. Who else do you need from the side, when all your experts are in the government? You remember the one from a little while ago, about the plane - expertise above politics. I really, for certain ministers and members of the government, respect you, have shown you extraordinary expertise in one, which is in destruction. They managed to destroy this Serbia with such destruction that NATO bombing was no longer such a terrible event. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49638	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49639	We propose this amendment to reduce the National Council for Co-operation with the UN tribunal to 244 000 dinars per contract of six million and 244 thousand. We simply believe that Serbia's co-operation with The Hague tribunal needs to be brought to an end, and that within that strategy, there should be a drastic reduction in the means of co-operation with this bandit international criminal anti-Serbian institution. Here are our arguments. Directly or indirectly, the UN tribunal killed 15 Serbs. Every sixth Serb indicted by The Hague tribunal was killed. In the history of civilization, there was no court, even at the time of the Inquisition, who so mass-killed the suspects. The number of Serbs killed by The Hague tribunal is equal to the total number of Croatians accused, twice the number of Muslims indicted and four times the total number of indictees. The number of Serbs killed by The Hague tribunal is greater than the total number of Croats, Muslims and Shipara together who have been sentenced by the UN tribunal's judicial verdicts. For unproven murder in the camp, Serbian Dusko Tadic was sentenced to three decades in prison. Croatian Drazen Erdemovic, who admitted to killing 130 people, proved to be killing 75 people, was sentenced to five years in prison and released to go home. Because at the time of action, the Serbian Krajina Army fired five missiles that killed seven Croatian civilians, Milan Martic was sentenced to three decades in prison. On the same day, in western Slavonia, the Croatian army killed 281 Serbs, 500 wounded, 18,000 expelled, and therefore the UN tribunal has not yet issued a verdict against the Croats. The Muslim military commander in Srebrenica, Sefer Halilovic, is responsible for the murder of more than 3.5 thousand Serbs, for the total destruction of more than 140 Serb villages, has been released of any responsibility and has been released. At the same time, Republika Srpska Vice-President Biljana Plavsic, a woman who was neither guilty nor in debt in the war, failed to issue any military command, was sentenced to 11 years in prison. Republika Srpska Parliament Speaker Momcilo Krajisnik, who did not issue any military order in the war, whose parliament has made no decision contrary to international law and the laws of the former Yugoslavia, was sentenced to three decades in prison. But that's why against Sefer Halilovic, a Muslim military commander who killed 5,000 Serb civilians in Sarajevo alone, is not at all charged with crimes against Serbs. The last example I will give you is the example of Vojislav Seselj and Ramush Haradinaj. Vojislav Seselj was accused of giving flammable political speeches during the war. Imagine what crime. Ramush Haradinaj accused of taking part in and committed several hundred murders directly. Both surrendered to The Hague tribunal. 51/1 BD/IP 20.30-20.40 Vojislav Seselj for eight years is not allowed to go free for one single minute until the trial begins, during the trial, even at the time of his mother's funeral, and Ramush Haradinaj is allowed to go free, to deal with politics and ultimately free of responsibility. Let me finish. Instead of saying -- enough, stop this Hague tyranny, stop embarrassing co-operation with The Hague tribunal, stop humiliating Serbia, you suggest we vote that Serbian citizens pay this shameful co-operation in 2011 with 44 million dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49640	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Here's the vice president.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49641	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, this is scandalous indeed, that in 2011, we must also set aside the position of specialised services and money contracts for translation and harmonisation with EU laws from the pockets of poor Serbian citizens. The Serbian Radical Party is explicitly against EU entry, and we believe that in 2011, the percentage of Serbian citizens who follow that view will be higher. I must remind you that the latest survey in October shows that at 70%, how much you boasted in the 2008 campaign, that support is now 44% of the respondents. This illusion that there is a better life waiting for us there simply cannot go through a normal man, who is increasingly poorer, without a job and who knows that the EU Member States have taken our territory, that is, to take away Kosovo and Metohija and that they will not stop at that. I have one specific question, and I'm going to end it for you. Do you know how much the equipment so far costs? The Serbian house in Brussels, which is just within our embassy, since we have some information that the entire equipment of the Serbian house has been set up with a tender or a tender for a person close to Bozidar Djelic, Vice-President of the Government for European Integration? It is about equipment in terms of furniture and all that is needed for such a building, and otherwise we believe that Serbia will never enter the EU, as well as our president, who is today the largest anti-globalist and supporter of such a policy against NATO and the EU. Then it is pointless for you to rob Serbian citizens in this way, especially for that so-called. The Serbian house in Brussels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49642	On Article 7th, the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7(1) of the amendment, MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49643	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I mentioned this in the principle debate. Mrs Dragutinović, we are asking you, and we have created a prerequisite for you in 2011 to abolish the Office for decentralisation, i.e., I apologize, office, I no longer know what they are called, who knows who is engaged in all decentralisation and regional development in Serbia, the Office for Sustainable Development of underdeveloped areas. And it's not true that we've questioned functioning, but we've removed almost everything that can be removed from the building's position and construction facilities, contract service, and I think there's transfers to other levels of government. I'm asking you, Madam Minister, and your colleagues, since I can clearly see they know everything and they're Sufling, do they know who's doing regional development in Serbia today? Do they know how to name you, what they're sitting there? They don't know, nobody knows. He deals with the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, so he deals with the Office of the Co-ordination Body for Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, so he deals with the Office for Economic Development, etc. It's the former Office for Small and Medium Enterprises Development. There has never been a greater regional development in Serbia since 1990 since you came to the job of a balanced regional development of the Republic of Serbia. You wrote here, Mrs Dragutinović, or those who wrote this, watch out – the possibility of hiring professional person services to prepare programming and planning documents relating to the sustainable development of underdeveloped areas will be reduced. Mrs Dragutinović, who is involved in the production of planning and strategic documents? The Ministry, i.e. the Spatial Planning Agency, is involved, so you, Madam Minister, have sent here a document that this assembly has adopted in a very disgusting political atmosphere, which is the Law on Regional Development. You see, it provides for regional development agencies, which will deal with development documents and regional sustainable development, but will not be financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Do you know, Madam Minister, how much you've accredited regional development agencies so far? You're not the new one. And if you accredited, you accredited those that existed without this law, and I repeat, regional differences in Serbia have never been greater. Here's a good chance for you to cancel this office in 2011. We haven't abolished our salaries here, we've left an opportunity for you to deploy these people within the state administration, which you need and benefit from. The ones of which you have no use to retire, pay off their severances, but for all the coming years of the budget and generation one ballast will be removed from your back. Show your will, support the SRS proposal, and regional development should be dealt with by the ministry, unless it is abolished by the government's reconstruction.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49644	On Article 1st, the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7(1) of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49645	The amendment to Article 7(1) requires the reduction of certain financial resources provided for in the work of the basic prosecutors and this reduction of the cash amounts that absolutely do not affect the work of these bodies. It is thus required that the gross amount be reduced from 13 million and 423 thousand dinars, and in addition to this, it is still required that the 8th item be divided into the economic classification of material 426 from 28 to 20 million, by eight million dinars, while at the same time the economic classification of 423 services by contract from 15 to 10 million dinars, therefore, is reduced to a gross amount of five million dinars. In fact, here is a reduction of those symposiums, a reduction of congresses, a reduction of all those encounters and all those washing machines in the judiciary. We asked for this amendment to save on those items that absolutely do not affect the work of the prosecution as a state authority. You say a reduction would affect the work of these organs. How this saves on contract or material savings threatens the work of the general public prosecutor's office. Now I'm going to tell you what's threatening the prosecution's work. The work of the prosecution as well as other judicial authorities endanger corruption in the work of these bodies, which is very present in the judicial authorities, and many research has shown. Then, keeping the items in drawers for a year, two or more days, and it was established, then, working on party orders. It's the cancer of our justice and our justice system. Furthermore, the prosecution's work endangers the most radical and this quasi reform of the judicial system. In that bush, gentlemen of the government, you're looking for a rabbit, and certainly not at the savings on the material, at the savings on the contracts. How do you even expect these state authorities, I mean the prosecutions, those bodies, to do their job as independent bodies, as the Constitution and the law tell them, when they themselves tell you that from one violation of the Constitution you are now entering these reforms that you are doing into an even greater violation of the Constitution. Such a reform of the justice system is pathetic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49646	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49647	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has been asking for a certain momentum for years to reduce budget expenditure, given the huge problems in the monetary financial and economic sphere. One of the types of reductions, what we have been seeking for years through amendment forms, is a reduction through work contracts, specialized services, and everything else where there is no particular emphasis in terms of reductions that will have negative implications, and in particular we do not do so in terms of reducing personal earnings. What matters from the point of view of the government is that all these amendments are being rejected. What is the essence of these amendments? Savings. What the SRS requires is that in every state body, in every form of state institutions, we go with a reduction, so that the budget deficit will eventually be as small as possible. Since 2006, when the 13 billion deficit went up, we've now reached over 20 billion. I won't stop there. In 2011, given the government's macroeconomic policy, the deficit must be far greater. That's why our demands go into savings, as the whole modern world does. We can learn from the means of information that almost the entire European Union is going into savings, bringing medium-term plans to four years, five years. Only this country, which is a poor country, does not go into savings. For what? Because the government doesn't want to save. It's a fundamental element and it's harmful. That is why we say that this is not a safe budget, this is a wasteful budget, and Serbian citizens will be in a position not to get everything provided for in terms of expenditure from this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49648	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Lidija Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49649	All these amendments submitted by the SRS, i.e. the opposition, I see as one constructive co-operation between the position and the opposition. It seems to me that this active involvement of the SRS i.e. The opposition to this number of amendments should have echoes and many of these amendments should be adopted, that the Government and those who have put forward the draft budget law should be heard and many amendments should be adopted, given that we are all fighting for a better life for citizens in our country. The SRS is proposing that the foreign ministry reduce the budget foreseen for this year's diplomatic-consular representation. The budget that is intended to be used is specified for the purchase of materials and equipment for work, running repairs and maintenance. We believe that the money that is intended for this is meant to be and that it should not be debated whether that money is separate for such things. These are the basic things that money is being allocated to, but it would be consistent with the great expenditures and corresponding to the large debts of our country that this budget should be reduced so that we do not borrow from foreign banks because we are already in large debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49650	Thank you. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49651	How much time left for the MPs' group? (President: 16 minutes left. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7 specifically to Section 15 relating to the funds allocated to the MUP. The aim of this, as well as all other amendments submitted by the SRS to the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2011, is to reduce the projected deficit of 120.5 billion dinars, i.e. to ensure that citizens understand how much Serbia will be in debt during this year, the entire billion and 150m euros, and so on year after year, until one year we get into a situation like Greece, except that no one will be able to help us, followed by the bankruptcy of the state. The amendment I made could save the state the entire 510 million dinars. The amendment proposes a reduction of funds for economic classification under this section of 15 relating to the MUP: travel costs for 60 million dinars, contracts for 10 million, ongoing repairs and maintenance for 60 million dinars, for material for 300 million dinars and for fines and penals for the court's resolution of 50 million dinars. If it is taken into account that the total funds defined on the MIP are almost 53 billion dinars, then this savings of 1% of the total amount for the MIP is absolutely acceptable and is easy to implement. The government, in its explanation for the refusal of amendments, explains, among other reasons, a concrete economic classification of 426 — material and a monetary amount of 2.5 billion dinars, so it says that 2.5 billion dinars are necessary for the payment of fuel and the purchase costs or replacement of uniforms for police officers. If that's the point, then the police will see some benefit from this budget, but in the next sentence, you sort of cancel it out and say instead of complete uniforms – only the most damaged parts will be replaced. I'm asking, what's this cop gonna look like on the street, in your idea, in a new blouse with a licked or faded pants or the other way around? If you've already planned to spend your resources on uniforms, then spend it on purpose, instead of letting police officers walk the streets of Serbia as colourful as parrots.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49652	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49653	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment, which was submitted to Article 7(2) of Section 16 of the 360 functions, which provides for a reduction of 288 million dinar money, which concerns economic classifications such as permanent travel costs and travel costs, contract services, specialised services, ongoing repairs, maintenance, materials, etc., which are not some transparent economic classification, is not accepted because the legislator considers that this would endanger the functioning of the BIA That perhaps the real issue is – what exactly does BIA do today, because if Serbia protects from political espionage, it seems quite unconvinced, since Serbia's state policy over the past ten years is such that it simply has nothing to protect itself? If that money is needed to protect Serbia from economic and scientific espionage, then it seems even more serious, because Serbia is practically barely having any economy, and its most powerful part is certainly not in the hands of the state, it is not in the hands of domestic businessmen, so of course there is no reason for our state to protect the property of foreign owners. That's their concern. If money may be needed to protect military secrets, you will agree that there is hardly anything that foreign intelligence agencies don't know at all today. It may take money to engage in the prevention of organised crime, or rather, economic crime, because I will remind you that over the past years, which is quite interesting, the full capacity service has been involved in this system and, I would say, the abuse of privatisation. All the time, she followed the state of the company, how organized crime inside it works, who are bidders, what their offers are, how they move, etc. and then when a customer or a foreign delegation appears at the place of bidding, the job of the service is to know every step of them, to monitor their movement, to record the contents of the bags etc. In principle, operatives are familiar with the offers of potential customers and gain a certain advantage for themselves or rather for tycoons or political powers who are close and ultimately in all of these privatisations the goal is to satisfy political appetites, so I will only remind the Serbian public of something that BIA or never the state security has failed at this stage of its business, such as Nenad Djordjevic, owner of BTC, luxury hotels in Belgrade and Budva, the island of St. Nicholas in Montenegro, the Faculty of Small and Medium Enterprises Management, the Academy of Democracy and Security, or perhaps former head of Belgrade's Centre of State Security, owner of the "Universal Holding", the Machine Industry "Panonia", from Indija, "Kaštela" from Eck, Tamish Commercial Enterprise from Sječnja, Company for the production of the "Zgutzboka" and so on. Interestingly, the involvement in the ministry had nothing to do with their personal and business success or perhaps the money needed to enable BIA to deal with what municipalities normally do and to issue a variety of beliefs as well as what it asks for. We believe that accepting this amendment would spare money that could be used for something more useful for ordinary citizens, for example. For better protection against fires, accidents and similar events, and if we were to succeed, if we were to build a country that is economically successful and that provides its citizens with work, quality health, education, legal certainty, then we would certainly not be exposed to the risk of being spied or attacked, and thus this amendment would have a logical justification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49654	You have 12 minutes and 15 seconds left. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Nikolic. Mr Milan Nikolic answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49655	I have submitted an amendment to Article 7 and item 1 where the amount of 818 billion is replaced by 815 billion and in heading 2nd division 22, function 450, classification 451 by 16 billion is replaced by 13 billion. The essence of this amendment, as my colleagues from the radical party have said, is to reduce the deficit. Namely, in economic classification 451 these are subsidies primarily intended for Serbia's railway, which is characteristic that they will be used primarily to pay employees' salaries. Only one part of three billion and 100 million will be used to pay off debts to the EPS to pay off electricity. Railway employees, and they are about 15,000 dissatisfied with their status, i.e. their salaries, which are 31,000 average and demand that their salaries be increased by at least 10% and regulated by subsidies. Addressing these pay problems to subsidies cannot bring any right solution because it is only the current solution and not long-term. This budget is a reflection of the government's poor work and will not contribute to the development of the economy and the achievement of new jobs. It is interesting that wage subsidies and debt payments in railways are close to subsidies related to agriculture, and we know what agriculture means in this situation when Serbia is in crisis. These subsidies are often subject to abuse. The example works in artificial fertiliser subsidies, the government gives 10,000 dinars, and has determined that it will finance and subsidise about 10,000 tonnes at year level and has defined that natural persons, i.e. landowners, can use at least 20 tonnes and 150 tonnes at most. In my region, there's a question in Ariel and around, there's not a single land that can spend 20 tons, let alone 150 tons. Those who have money show up and take advantage of the filled out forms. Only one well-filled form can make a million-and-a-half profit, which is close to 15,000 euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49656	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49657	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment requires a reduction in expenditure on the acquisition of non-financial and financial assets. It refers to division 23, function 460, economic classification of 612 machines and equipment. The objective of the amendment is to reduce the budget deficit. These funds are intended for the Ministry of Telecommunications and Information Society. The illogicality of this kind of separation for this ministry becomes more evident when the government's intention to sell Telecom is known. Who are these funds for? Whether this is what the government wants the future buyer to offer better equipment at the expense of Serbia's debtors. Besides, how are we the information society when we announce higher computer taxation? I remind you that in June 2007, the government then accepted the amendment by President Oliver Dulic's Assembly to reduce the taxation of computers and accounting equipment from 18% to 8%. It is known that Dulic had or still has a computer and computer equipment company in Subotica, so he was very interested in tax cuts to increase traffic and revenues. At that time, however, the budget could not be taxed on computers, and the information society was not the government's priority. By the number of computers and their use among the last countries in the world, no one cares. Also reportedly, Zoran Djindjic negotiated with the owner of Microsoft about networking everyone in RS. However, the owner came, picked up the money to use the user's software and left. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We'll still go to the counters for everything we need. It's the same as the fixed-line situation. This 19th - century invention is not in the 21st century. If the Ministry of Telecommunications allows Telecom to sponsor everything and everyone, why all this detachment from the budget? Let him perform a better and fairer redistribution within such reduced separations, and with smaller means he will be able to perform the function for which he is responsible.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49658	The 7th Amendment was submitted by Srboljub Zivanovic, to whom I give my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49659	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Section 25, paragraph 7, concerning the Ministry of Science and Technological Development. On the Committee on Science and Technological Development, I think the only committee that has met and discussed the distribution that has been made, which is 11 billion, how much has been left for the Ministry of Science and Technological Development, and in fact during the discussion and all relevant factors that have been asked by the president of the state, the President of the Assembly, which is the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts, the National Council for Scientific and Technological Development, the Community of the Serbian Institute and the Conference of the University of Serbia to have this figure somewhere around 14.5 billion. This would, in fact, be enough to implement the project, which is a development strategy, scientific and technological development in the period 2010 to 2015. But with this amendment, he wanted certain items that are related to specialist costs to be reduced, in order to in some way, this figure of 11.5 billion as determined by the Ministry of Science and Technological Development, so that it could be improved. We know well that the projects that the Government and the Ministry have drawn up four thousand new projects, four thousand new researchers, need to be financed, i.e. we know well that 1,700 such scientific young researchers are involved in this project. If there is a reduction in this figure, surely this research project that has plotted its way is four thousand, which is impossible to achieve. We know well that without science, without research centres, there is no perspective either in the economy or in the country's economy. You know very well that the institutes that existed at the great centers were destroyed in the great giants. These institutes that have been with the state and the government, they, unfortunately, are not working today. We know exactly what we're doing with one of the largest institutes, i.e. with the Vincha Institute and similar institutes. I think you should accept this amendment of mine. In fact, it is going towards realisation that these projects can be implemented in 2011, i.e. that this strategy, drawn from 2010 to 2015, can be realised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49660	The People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49661	Dear President, Your Honor, Madam Minister, I really don't understand right now, I'm closely following the content of every amendment and argument. What I can say is that the amendments that are so detached here -- over there, with no idea what that really means and what the consequences are. So, the various state institutions are just so ominously dislocated, without any argument, why does someone think that these funds are too large on those items? This is particularly interesting, since anyone who doesn't know what's going on in this amendment would have thought the previous speaker was asking for an increase in the budget for scientific and research work. He asked for a reduction with his amendment. Article 7(1) states the amendment – an amount of 818 million, and I don't know what number is further, it is reduced to 813 million. The next amount is to reduce the figure from 10 million to five million, from 18 million to 13 million. It's simple, just so there's no public deception, that people know what this is really about. The chair of the Committee on Science would be logical to propose on the Committee to increase the budget for science, not to reduce the budget for science. If he has already advocated a budget reduction, because he has submitted such an amendment, it is not correct that he now claims here that he has advocated increasing the budget for science and scientific research. The content of his amendment proves that he was in favour of reducing this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49662	National MP Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49663	Thank you. Mrs. Nado, you probably didn't understand me or follow me. (President: Just don't talk to Mrs. Kolundji, it's Parliament. I'm sorry. I'm sure you didn't understand when I was going to say that ordinary costs could be directed at the costs associated with scientific projects. I have written here how many reductions it is, according to certain items that move around about five billion, but in desire, you know well that we took from the developmental European Bank a 200 million loan to build apartments and buy equipment. So I wanted to improve with my amendment, that these funds could be used on the basis of those four thousand projects to be implemented, that is to say, that these four thousand researchers should be involved in this work. If you see by these means that the issue of GDP ranges from 0.3% to 0.4%. The Committee's objective was to make the percentage 1% until the 2010 development strategy by 2015. We know well that the development economy cannot exist and cannot find itself at this point without an adequate engineering path, or without development within the institutes and scientific technology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49664	Mrs. Hope Kolundji has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49665	If we assume that your intention was as you are now trying to explain, then this amendment is wrong. If you're just reducing from certain items, the assumption is that these funds are referred to other items that would involve encouraging young scientists, scientific and research projects. The amendment that is only being downloaded reduces amounts to the Ministry of Science's budget, means only that the one who submitted the amendment advocates finding less money in the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49666	Mr. Zoran Mašić by amendment. You mean the replica? There's no basis for replication. Mr. Mašić after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49667	Madam President, let me say as a representative of the opposition party that this amendment really doesn't make sense, precisely because someone who is chairman of the Committee on Science and Technological Development proposes a reduction of five billion funds for scientific and research work. It is known that the new research cycle and new research projects due to last four years start from January 1st. It is precisely these projects that a large number of young researchers should participate. For the first time in the last few years, funding for scientific and research work has been increased because these projects have reported a large number of young researchers and this is a unique opportunity to just finance the scientific and research work of young researchers and to encourage them to remain precisely these young talented people in our country and to remain at our institutes and universities. The position from which these funds are paid at the Ministry of Science is precisely this economic classification 424 and it is declared to be specialised services. So this is the position from which funds for scientific research were paid in previous years, and they were about 10 billion last year. It is now proposed that the ministry and the government accept it and we MPs of this party absolutely and in principle we supported it and I think that everyone should support it to invest in science in this country, which is the same as investing in the economy, and that now someone who is chairman of the parent board is proposing that those funds be reduced by this amount, I don't think it really makes any sense and there's no excuse and most likely no understanding of the position in the budget, and again, I say, from this position, funds for scientific and research work are being paid through all projects and all researchers in all scientific and research institutions in this country. (Srboljub Zivanovic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49668	There's no basis for replication. You've made your point. Milan Lapcevic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted together to the 7th amendment. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure. Who's calling? Mr. Zivanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49669	The gentleman misunderstood me, or perhaps he did not listen to my discussion about which I spoke, about the budget and about the separation of the Ministry of Science and Technological Development, where we unanimously accepted an increase of 14.5 billion on the Science Committee. But you downgraded the position to 11.5 billion. So the minus is two billion. (President: Just say which member of the Rules of Procedure you are advertising, please. ) Article 107. I'm sorry, I didn't say. (President: Dignity of the Assembly. What's wrong with it? ) Therefore, the gentleman concerned was to take care of his veterinary, or agricultural services, and not at this point when he wanted to point to science and technological development, that out of the four thousand new projects that should be brought to the country's improvement, it was in fact the goal of preventing young experts from leaving this country, i.e. to enable those who have left the country, who are in the diaspora to return to the country with new knowledge, with new scientific achievements, to help, that these people provide one prosperity to this society. That is why the goal was to take this loan from the European Development Bank to build apartments for young experts, because you know well, these young people do not ask for wages, but they still need to be given a decent life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49670	Mrs. Hope Kolundji has a word. That'll be the end, we won't be in the broadcast anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49671	The Honorable President, Your Honor, Madam Minister, it's obvious that the applicant of the amendment doesn't know what he wanted with his amendment. So there is no confusion among those who read this amendment so that it has asked for a budget reduction for scientific and research work. So it's quite clear from the amendment. It's just sad that it's the chairman of the Assembly's Science Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-27-0.u49672	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, since we are no longer in direct transmission, we will continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you for your participation in the debate.
