ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39061	The President-in-Office, the Presidency, Mr Minister, representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure, fellow MPs, a set of amendments to the laws and conventions that are today on the agenda and before us represent another necessity that we must respect, and all for the purpose of Eurointegration, of course, regarding the areas of transport, which do not only involve vehicles and transport itself, but also the complete infrastructure that monitors all of this. If we want our freighters and our large transport systems, road, rail, water, to participate equally and be competitive in the service they offer, we need the existing laws that we have in the area of transport to improve, to agree with the existing ones in the EU, but also the conventions that are before us will allow easier, smooth transport with the countries with which we sign them. One of the components in transport, which perhaps only lay or naked eye is not visible, is certainly time and it is something that has a considerable impact on the costs of that transport that we will have, namely, on the profit or loss itself in that transport. In addition to the infrastructure that is necessary, we need to know that both the performance of the vehicle and the adequate vehicles that we use in transport must be according to the highest standards. However, personnel and people working alone in that transport chain must be trained and prepared for the job they do. Again, on the other hand, I point out here, it is fully obvious and the importance of ending and working on Corridor 10, both rail and road and, finally, for now small and in the future, of course, greater exploitation of our only international waterway that we have, and that is the Danube. In my presentation, I will focus more on putting an accent on the part relating to rail and combined transport, part of logistics services and logistics that is very important and which has long become a future in terms of the transport chain itself and I will look back a little on this European Convention concerning the transport of dangerous cargo. I transport implies more functions. Like I said, they're transporting, loading, loading, unloading, manipulation of the goods themselves. Of course, there are half-products that also come into the transport chain and all the shops that are tied up, as well as just storage as far as the goods themselves are concerned. To carry out transport activities we need means of transport, infrastructure, transportation manipulation equipment and trained personnel. The rail freight transport itself is primarily realised by us, but also in all countries, as already known, by the state railways and its advantages are seen in the transport of larger cargo units, unlike road transport itself and which is independent of the daily traffic carried out on the roads. Because of the great distance, when we need to transport goods, they are often used so-called today. combined transport, i.e. a combination of different types of traffic. We have a combination of rail, road, train and air traffic. As far as traffic is concerned, let's just say, railways, they've been known so-called long ago. In addition to container transport, Ro-Ro transport, kukibeg, pigment, which is long ago and standardised and the way in which it is used, and all for the purpose of optimising traffic, traffic costs and transport costs. Today's expeditions, which we also have, which are very important, are long ago modern logistics providers who are able to offer and provide a complete logistics service and in general the trend of all these today's shipping companies, are also taking over more and more of these logistics activities themselves. As far as logistics and logistics centres are concerned, which are already more and more, there are long ago basic methods – from door to door and the "just in time" method first wants to provide a service that will optimise and minimise all costs related to the vehicle itself, during the duration of the process and in general transport. So, optimization of transport is something that is necessary in just looking at the entire transport chain. Basic logistics services include both forwarding and transporting and storage and loading and packing, and in general, as regards means of transport, such a combination should be done at the right time, at the right place, at the minimum cost, to perform that service. Today's logistics centres are central elements of modern logistics and business networks. They differ by micro and macro location, by structure and function, but the point is that in the very logistics and logistics center, we actually do transport from micro to macro system, from micro to micro or macro into macro system, which, as I said, has long become the future. The signing of this convention with Hungary is a benefit to us, both to us, of course, both the freighters and the people who are in Hungary, because, using theirs, and those of ours or common logistics centres, we will be able to have minimum costs and to keep that goods, whether we continue to store, whether through Serbia or Hungary, it is completely irrelevant. As for some new solutions in logistics, one of them is certainly a consolidation of commodity flows, then, to make as much use of so-called. intermodal transport and use of information technologies. The convention is also the possibility that our road transporters are using and continuing to use all kinds of combined transport. We know that Ro-La is already being used by our people in Hungary. Of course, it will continue to be signed by this convention. As I said, that transport itself and logistics itself and the method at all, there are no new ones for a long time, except to say that in this whole system "just in time" is what is always necessary and means minimum costs. As for transporting a dangerous burden, we ourselves have witnessed several times following the media that because of inadequate handling of transport or packing of dangerous goods, there could have been major environmental disasters, that there could have been even loss of human lives, and therefore this convention that we now sign, there are some of its additions, we define rules, instructions, obligations and standards that must be respected, and by respecting them we are practically keeping ourselves. What is a dangerous burden? They represent all the matter that can cause an explosion, that can release toxic gases and that can cause fires. However, from the very definition of structure and composition it can be from fuel, various explosive matter, gas, etc. Even the sight of a scattered burden in some form can be, if nothing, then ecologically very dangerous. The most important thing is that in specialised vehicles, which are specially marked and where the load is packed in a special packaging, transport is carried out. It is important to know that fuel can be transported in fixed tanks, pressure gas or compressed gas must have adequate packaging, which is all clearly defined here by the Convention. In general, complete equipment of dangerous load is carried out in containers, portable tanks or so on. A container of tanks. The advantage of this agreement, which is particularly to be pointed out, is that after three years it can be revised and that there may be any findings or something that has been shown in practice and that does not suit us, we agree with the other countries of the signatories of this Convention. As regards vehicles engaged in the transport of dangerous cargo, they must have both professional and trained personnel to manipulate from the very packaging and mode of transport of this load, and therefore the newspaper in terms of control is so-called. The security adviser and his task will be to help prevent the risks arising from those activities, which are: packing, loading, loading and unloading of this burden, and which can be dangerous to people, property and the environment. In short, in a few black ones, I have mentioned the importance of all these conventions because the maltenes are involved in transporting and pervading through all the other conventions that are ahead of us and I want to say that our coalition in the voting day will support this law. I want to draw attention to all my colleagues that one of the few things that we should definitely all agree on is the fact that road and rail corridor 10 is the highest priority. All our governments, past, current and future governments, must work to complete this corridor, as the most significant investments and one of the main ones that contribute, but in an infrastructure sense, to Euro-integration. I repeat, once again, that our coalition, the SPS-JS in voting day, will support these conventions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39062	National MP Milan Avramovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39063	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers, what is symptomatic, and in this assembly, it has become a practice to merge incompatible, so today we have 17 draft laws in a united debate which, for example, turns out to be four minutes under one law for the SRS Group. It is not a good time to seriously consider any agreement, any convention, let alone any relationship between states, especially countries in the region. It is important to note that this package of laws involves both the environment and the weather forecast, oil pollution and sea pollution, and a set of agreements with Montenegro, Hungary, Iran, Switzerland and other proposals in this agenda. What is important for all these agreements is that they are written as a pattern, as they all refer to the same items, is just a change in the name of the country for which the agreement is adopted, the role of the country, when and how the working commission has reached the agreement and how the agreement is to be implemented. What is also obvious is that there are differences between agreements with EU member states and countries that are still not. I would like to remind, for example, what is the agreement between Serbia and Hungary, and what is the agreement between Serbia and Montenegro, and I will give you concrete examples in favour of my discussion. It is very important to put the priority, when it comes to Hungary, on rail and water transport, in order to unload road and with other countries in the region, since this is not possible geographically, is the agreement. What is essential for rail traffic with Hungary and water traffic with Hungary, are the reasons set out in the bill's very proposal, which is an analysis of the economic aspect, co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Hungary, and it is explained in the explanation that the last years have seen constant growth in the amount of imported and exported goods in the Republic of Hungary, more specifically from Hungary to Serbia. In the beginning, we have to say that this is not the reason for the agreement, if we take the genealogy as this agreement ever came into existence. Whoever wrote this argument obviously had no good arguments, which is why this agreement comes to the congregation's agenda. However, if we also take that the implementation of this agreement has started in 2005, as it says here, then it is certain that the backdrop of this agreement is something else. For the sake of truth and the public in Serbia, Hungary has great interests in Serbia only to make a breakthrough to Russia and Belarus, that the fundamental Hungarian interest is also presented in the volume of imports into our country and exports from our country and that the fact that, for example, in 2009 is worth a billion euros imported from Hungary to Serbia and not a full 320 million exported from Serbia to Hungary, so that the economic justification of this agreement is absolutely not there. There are other spheres that matter. They say -- a friendly country in Hungary and an example is being cited in how Hungary helped Serbia when it was a gas crisis. When we consider how much gas is charged to us and how much is in the loss of the Serbian state because of that price of gas, we see that the price of friendship is not very low. Essentially, what is connected to us and Hungary is Corridor 10, the end of Belgrade's highway -- Budapest on European Corridor 10, announced for the end of this year, we will see how this will end and what is the role of the Hungarian side in this. What is important is Hungary's passage through that corridor 10 to EU countries, especially Greece and Turkey, continue to go to Asia. So it's not that much of an interest in Hungary's friendly relationship with Serbia, especially if we take other political aspects that are not related to traffic, which is Kosovo's recognition, etc. What is mentioned in the "trade Pleum", organised in Hungary, is also information that the prime minister has said he plans to invest more than 2.5 billion euros in the realisation of Corridor 10 projects and wants to take advantage of this opportunity to invite all Hungarian companies to participate in their realisation. Mr. Minister, I think it's a very different policy of your ministry, that you're someone who's pushing domestic companies, but politics with the prime minister's policy is clearly on you right now. Then, the data presented by the president of Hungary's Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Laslo Fara, suggests that Serbia's trade deficit with Hungary is a serious problem, as the Serbian economy imported about a billion euros from Hungary last year, and exported goods for 234m euros and thus Serbia is 20th in terms of foreign trade with Hungary. This is data from the Serbian-Hungarian "business Forum" from Budapest. Last year, exports from Serbia to Hungary dropped 50% and from Hungary to Serbia 70%, so that the economic justification of the Agreement itself does not stand in this reasoning, as a sincere intention that this is the real reason for the agreement. Then we have another piece of information that's in the explanation, which is that it's coordinated to help invest in the infrastructure of its railways, intermodal transport terminals and ports. I will now look briefly at the political situation in our country, in the state of 'Luka Belgrade', whether a detailed regulation plan for 'Luka Belgrade' has been amended and what is the role of this agreement for 'Luca', which may not be in second place for ten years. It is then stated, in the reasons for the adoption of this bill, the preservation of the environment, as well as the assistance in granting licences for the transport of Ro-La and Ro-Ro, which are issued as rewards rather than transit licences. If I'm not mistaken, it's the only positive item in this bill, by getting more permits and not waiting more than 30 minutes at the crossings, which is strictly stated in this bill. According to the data we possess, there are 5,500 Hungarian bulletins and 26,500 transit licences regarding road traffic, so that is also one piece of information that exists already, in a way, solid co-operation in road transport with Hungary. As far as the law with Switzerland is concerned, he has defined some of the responsibilities that have been specified in the very proposal for a Protocol, which is what we do not have for our side. The agreement between Serbia and Switzerland lists the preamble applicable to the Swiss Confederation, which is that a special permit is issued by the Federal Bureau of Roads from Bern for the transport of indivisible things and if conditions allow transport. So, with us, the JP "Serb Roads" give consent to the transport of any kind of goods that crosses both the gauges and the axle load, and they have fenced themselves here and wrote "if the conditions of the road allow transport", which could mean a clear signal that this working group did not specify whether the JP "Serb Roads" would issue permits. I'll also remind you of a case of some previous discussions, when I mentioned the abuse of a Romanian firm called Coleman, which exceeded all the gauges, and was found on our roads, and I asked you for a notice on what was done with that company. I haven't received any answers until today. The law between the government of the Islamic Republic of Iran and Serbia also has a mixed commission, with the termology between cabotage and internal transport being specified in the protocol's title. What's good and what's supposed to be applied to us is that we accept good ideas for our rules, even though our foothold is in our law on international road transport, is a ban on domestic transportation, therefore, a ban on cabatage on all grounds. There is no agreement by any mixed committee to make any specific decisions on cabatage. Our bill says, "If there is no state-owned company or company that cannot carry out that kind of transport, then cabatage is approved." In this case, in this agreement with the Islamic Republic of Iran, there is a strict ban on domestic transport or in our termological translation – a ban on cabatage on all grounds. This is what we should have applied, especially since we have a report from the Chamber of Commerce that there are businesses in Serbia for all modes of transport. Also, in the draft law of the Serbian and Montenegrin government, there is something that differs between the draft laws of these other proposals on the agenda, which is, the possibility of a mixed commission to annul a complete agreement, to make decisions beyond this agreement, to determine by a special act who can drive and without permission, to determine by a special act whether he can issue permits and to determine by a special act who can also work cabotage. And he says, "The mixed commission in Article 13(2)." It is a member who speaks of the formation of this commission, "it can by all means extend the list of transports from the 1st position of this member". Item 1 of this Article says "to vehicles whose maximum permissible mass, including trailers, does not exceed 6 tonnes or whose permissible capacity, together with the trailer, exceeds 3.5 tonnes". So, the mixed commission, as I understand it, may have been wrong, correct me if I'm wrong, has the right to approve of any overruns and gauges and axle loads past JP Serbian Roads in this draft law with Montenegro. If we also take this information that a mixed commission is made up of members of the ministries and one and the other signatories of the Agreement, then it is a fact that in co-operation with the Montenegrin Ministry we can do anything other than this agreement, in particular that this agreement has a prominent preamble that says that this agreement cannot disrupt the basics of their other agreements they have signed or their legislation. And now, we give these agreements consent to the Mixed Commission that it also interferes everywhere with what is precise with the agreement itself. I don't know how clear I was, the objective of all these agreements is to improve transit or transport between the countries of the signatories of these agreements, to determine the number of CEMT permits to be used, but that, in doing so, the mixed commission in either of these agreements has no sanction that it can bear if it makes any failure. That's what's fundamentally against all these agreements. There is no legal remedy other than the legal remedy of state law if something in this agreement is not respected, there is no legal status for a mixed commission. It's for drivers, it's for a transport company, but it's not for a mixed commission. I have to repeat what I said last time, that just the Ministry's policy of the previous period was wrong, that this policy made huge failures during the CEMT license assignment and that we from the CEMT Secretariat were threatened to experience Romanian syndrome because irregularities were observed. These irregularities are obviously related to mixed commissions and to the ministry's policy which at that time granted CEMT permits. And I'll remind you, last time I gave some documentation, as a kind of evidence in favor of my discussion, that there were judicial judgments in favour of private companies that could carry a burden, and the state gave, i.e., a burden. The ministry gave consent to a foreign company, in fact, gave consent to a cabotage to a company that is not from our country. Then the problem arises whether the trailer is ours or from Croatia, whether the driver is ours or the Croat, etc. Essentially, there is a court ruling prohibiting the Ministry's decision on cabotage, as well as a temporary measure and order to deprive the company that had the possibility of transporting that type of cargo. Because of this practice, we must mention that in all these agreements you have a preamble in which you say that the permit is intolerable and that the licence is valid for the name and last name, for one company, and that it cannot be changed. I'll remind you, and I've given it to you as evidence that you've just asked the Ministry's policy for companies to exchange permits with each other. I have here a list of companies that applied for a replacement license, and they were allowed to do that. You know that one part of the license was withdrawn, one part left as a reserve, and one part remained in the application of those CEMT permits and that countries in the region, Germany, Croatia, Romania, wrote complaints to the Ministry that there were permits at the customs crossing that were not in line with CEMT licences published on the site. Here's a piece on that. He says: A request for the replacement of CEMT – please provide us with a replacement of our CEMT license, its model, E-3 S-1 for the license E-4 S-1 with the company and that. So, I can't have companies trading licenses between themselves under our law. In these contracts you have an item that the permit is non-transportable. Now, if the Ministry didn't respect this permit when it was supposed to, how would they respect it in this agreement? We are absolutely not against better co-operation in international road traffic with all countries of the region, that's good. You need to know who's driving, who's driving, there's got to be order, but this kind of ministry policy allows companies to change between themselves CEMT licenses, and there's no sanctions or the kind of sanctions the ministry needs to impose on the company that committed the offence, here, I'll give you an example. You know, Mr. Minister, you've made it possible for companies in the register for only three, four months to get CEMT licenses. It's good for young companies to develop as soon as possible, but it's bad that it's against the law, as it is bad that some companies report to the police that the CEMT license was stolen or robbed, and then it's on the border, so then you have a problem as the Ministry. Because at that border, the Ministry of that country that caught that CEMT permit that was declared invalid writes to you a letter and gives you notice of all companies that have misused permits that do not exist in fact. What's not good is that these companies don't carry sanctions, they don't bear responsibility. By law, it should be held accountable or warned, or it should be taken away from them, or, perhaps, not given permission at the next time, or sanctioned in cash. I'm not going to list what companies are now, but you have contributions when, let's say, here's what I can read about how it was notified by an entrepreneur or a private company, who asked to be given permission on the basis of their permission missing in a vehicle whose owner reported the criminal prosecution "nn" person who stole that license. Then that license was found on the Croatian border. And the Croats immediately write a letter to Serbia, and they say, "The Federal Office for Goods Transport has informed me of the counterfeited public documents of the CEMT license. It's specifically about licenses with numbers, so that I don't list the numbers, "allow" (it and "it's shown to day controllers" (it and that) is a fresh date, '30. June 2009, on the A-6 federal highway by the driver of the carrier "MB Trans Frigo"; the 'lic number' (this and that) ''it was shown to the controllers on 16 June 2009 on the federal highway A-3 by the carrier "Dunic d.o.o.", so the name of the company etc. etc. They shall notify that licences have been detained, as a derogation from the original public documents has been established. Then he says: ''The Bavarian circuit criminalist office has found that the pattern in question differs from authentic parallel material in its performance. ''So, it's about imitations. So, for example, you have from the German letter, from the Croatian memo, for "Pavlović LD Companies", for "LDM Group", for "NS Malić trans", etc., etc. They're all companies, and I'm willing to give you that file, although I've already given you, if you've looked at it, who have abused the ministry, more specifically, the unauthorized permits of the ministry have been used because they've reported stolen it. In what way this will be sanctioned, according to the data that says all these agreements and provisions of these agreements are said to be non-transportable. So, distinguished Minister Mrkonjic, my intention was not to degrade either the Ministry or you, but rather the policy and practice that needs to be changed and to sanction companies like this Romanian company, "Colleman", which is a vehicle for Kosovo and Metohija baggers from Germany, which have arrived in Smederevo, to dig Serbian ore in Obilić, without any consent from JP "Serbian Ways" for the gauges that it had. She was caught, (in a second I'm finishing) by the control of JP's "Serbian Ways" to cross the gauges, shut down from traffic and fled to Kosovo and Metohija. The company must no longer work in Serbia, as it has caused enormous damage. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39064	Thank you. Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? (No) I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled search, applied for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted a parliamentary group for the European Serbia and the Serbian Radical Party. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39065	The President-in-Office, Mr Minister and fellow Members, today is on the agenda of a series of draft laws confirming agreements, protocols and international conventions. Mahoma refers to regulation of the issue of goods transport, passengers, dangerous cargo, and some of them concern environmental protection. I would refer to two draft laws confirming an agreement with Montenegro. The first agreement with Montenegro relates to border control in rail traffic, while the second is the transport of passengers and things in international road traffic. After the unification of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro, it became necessary to regulate a number of problems created in the functioning of border control in rail traffic. A number of temporary measures have been implemented in the past by the border authorities and the "Serb Railways" aimed at improving the conditions to carry out better control of the state border crossing with Montenegro. The need to adopt contractual regulation other than the border authorities has shown from the railway undertakings of the two countries. The ratification of this Agreement will contribute to the more efficient and quality of border control in rail traffic between the two countries. A bill confirming the Agreement on the Transport of Travellers and Things in International Road Traffic with Montenegro has the common interest of the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro to develop economic and trade relations as well as possible. The agreement also shows the country's determination to establish best co-operation in international road traffic, and everything within the market economy, taking care of environmental protection and human beings. The same enables greater traffic security. As the initiative to conclude such an agreement has existed since 2007, it was signed on 28 August 2009. It is important to point out that the provisions of the Agreement are in line with the UN Economic Commission's resolution and principles for Europe and the International Transport Quarum. I would now move to the Agreement on Foundation Co-operation of the Trans-European Railways, which is a project of the UN Economic Commission for Europe and which represents a framework for regional co-operation of Central and Southeast European countries, all in terms of developing effective international rail and combined traffic in these countries. The problems that will be addressed and addressed concern the provision of better quality rail transport services, reducing environmental, security problems in the main directions in Central and Eastern Europe. The project is also dedicated to helping the process of European integration and economic development by facilitating rail transport in Europe. The Republic of Serbia has observer status with participation in certain activities on the project. As the interest of the Republic of Serbia to preserve the existing and strengthen positions it has in carrying out transit traffic from Central Europe to the Middle East, as logically, only the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the Trans-European Railway project is imposed. Our country's membership in this project will enable active participation in the development of the project, and then include in the credit arrangements aimed at realising it. I would also refer to the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Regional Environment Centre for Central and Eastern Europe on the legal status of the same in the Republic of Serbia. The Regional Environment Centre was founded by the European Commission, the United States and Hungary in 1990, based in St. Andrea, and the offices are located in each of the 16 beneficiary countries, i.e. the signatories of the Agreement. Otherwise, it refers to Central and Eastern European countries. The regional environmental centre is a non-party, independent, non-profit international organisation, whose mission is to help address environmental problems in Central and Eastern Europe. It also carries out its mission to promote co-operation with NGOs, with government institutions and the business sector and other partners in the field of environmental protection, as well as to help support the free exchange of information and public participation processes in decision-making regarding environmental protection. The regional centre interprets and implements its mission in practice in the spirit of Agenda 21, paying particular attention to the links between social, economic and environmental protection issues. The financing of the Regional Environment Centre is fully project-type, and the sources of funding for projects are donations and contracts with various governments, international organisations and businesses. In the last five years, the sources of funding have been the European Commission, the Government of Italy, the Netherlands, Denmark, Switzerland, Norway, the United States and Japan, as well as various UN agencies. The regional centre is active in various areas of sustainable development, linking solutions and stakeholders on issues such as policy, environmental protection, climate change, renewable energy sources, waste management and others. The regional centre implements about 300 projects annually. The National Offices Network contributes to the regional centre mission, ensuring the presence of local partners, implementation of projects and programmes serving local needs, the Regional Centre has a national office in Serbia, it is located in Belgrade, and the Project Offices in Pirote and Ljubovija. A large number of projects in the country have been implemented through the Belgrade Office. As regards the programme areas in which this part is financed, these are: capacity building, economics and investment in the field of environmental protection, sustainable local development, climate change and renewable energy sources. The agreement allows for more efficient business of the Regional Environment Centre, in particular in the part relating to the timely use of funds for the implementation of projects in the field of environmental protection, financed from donations of the already mentioned countries. It shall act as Secretariat for EU regional programmes in the field of environmental protection aimed at candidates and potential candidates for membership. The agreement, apart from the activities missions, also identifies a series of elements that define the legal status of the regional environmental centre in the Republic of Serbia. By confirming these and other international conventions, the agreement, the Republic of Serbia is ready to accept all the obligations and rights arising from them and engages very actively in regional organisations, accepts and respects international standards, so that in the day of voting I will cast my vote on all these conventions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39066	Thank you. People's MP Radisa Ilic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39067	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as this set of laws on the approval of agreements, protocols and international conventions is concerned, I will talk about those proposals for laws relating to environmental protection, and there are six of them in this set. However, some of the bill's proposals, I would say, are a little funny, from the point of view of what it will bring to the Republic of Serbia, which is why it needs certain conventions, such as that convention on the prevention of sea pollution with ships, etc., that I do not now list them. As regards the Protocol on the static environmental impact assessment, with the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in the cross-border context, much can be said. The most important thing is to answer the question – will the Republic of Serbia be protected from the countries with which they are bordered and which, too, have had or have yet to adopt this protocol? The question is also to what extent are these protocols respected by other countries both in the EU and those that are candidates, etc.? Since it is widely known that these protocols are a dead letter on paper, they are adopted quickly to meet the conditions set by the EU to the governments of those countries. Yesterday we heard that Bulgarians adopted everything in order, even untranslated laws, in English, only to meet these EU conditions. Now we should expect certain countries in our environment to make a strategic environmental impact assessment that can affect our territories, and we know how they are and why these protocols are actually adopted. Does our government or the competent department have any knowledge of all potential pollutants in our environment? Let's say, about oil refineries, about thermoelectric power plants, about nuclear power plants like Kozloduy, about big cannons, about asbestos plants, especially about disposal and processing of hazardous waste. I'll come back to this facility later. Then, large mining spears and ore processing, petrochemical and chemical storage facilities, as well as the deforestation of forests on large surfaces. I doubt that in the future any protocols will be able to stop our neighbor's intentions, but that's why we'll probably be playing bigger Europeans than Brussels, so we'll both be able to stop what needs to be done and what we shouldn't shut down and shut down, if they haven't already done it in bankruptcy. I ask the question – is there an analysis for the Republic of Serbia of how much we are at risk in the cross-border context? I believe we have common cause for concern. Now I would like to say something about the plant for the disposal and processing of hazardous waste that is necessary to Serbia, but for whose construction there are some standards in EU countries and as such should be applied to us. However, it is on the case of Serbia that the EU sees how much it cares about applying these standards in Serbia. One such facility in plans has been wandering Serbia, and still wandering for seven years. The first was planned for Vojvodina, but in 2003, the Executive Council decided to ban the construction of such a facility on its territory. The same happened in Šapac, Kragujevac, more precisely in the village of Divostina, and recently in Ćupria, when the representatives of the government, i.e. the Ministry and the local self-government leaders, were almost lynched by dissatisfied citizens, to continue the story, unfortunately, these days in Pojats, a small place in the Municipality of Ćicevic. The EU has conditioned the Republic of Serbia, that such a facility must be built in the central part of the Republic of Serbia and give 14m euros free of charge, but only to make this facility as soon as possible. It is not difficult to imagine the interest of individual EU countries in this facility. We now have a real picture and an opportunity to worry about Serbia's environment, it is well known, and this is confirmed by Assistant Minister for Environmental Protection Mr Aleksandar Vesic, that some basic standards that apply in the EU, such as: the proximity of settlements, surface and underground waters, river streams, must be met. Let us not forget agricultural land, water supply facilities, cultural and historical monuments, etc. When it comes to Turkey, none of these conditions have been met, and what is the worst public has been informed in a minute to 12. We now have the same situation in the Pojats at Cicecec. In the immediate vicinity are Velika Morava, a large number of villages with over two thousand inhabitants, the towns of Ćićevac and Varvarin themselves, Paracin is on a 10km air line, Ćuprija and Kruševac are on 20km of air line. So, a huge number of agricultural parcels producing large quantities of vegetable products and mentioning only some villages, such as Drenovac, or Tomica Milosavljevic's birth village. The Drenovac residents expect the minister to protect them from the construction of this facility, just two kilometers from their village. Then, the villages of Vidovo, Striža, Sikirica, Obrež, Katun etc. What EU standards are now to talk about in this case, when it is knowingly broken, only to reach the goal at any cost? If Minister Dulic and his assistants convince us that it is not harmful and dangerous for the lives and health of people and for the environment, builds this facility, what does this plant not do on New Belgrade or below Avali or in Surcin? What are they pushing him into poor municipalities, such as, Čupre, Cicevic and some others, offering patching of blast holes, roofing of sports halls, offering jobs with liquid cyanide, acid, bases, toxic packaging, chemical waste, etc., after which these "employees", will slowly, but surely, travel to the world, due to such a healthy working environment? Citizens remain as are petitions and protests so far, which is likely to happen in Cicevic, to mention Krnjevo, a village near the Velika Plana, where the government, in violation of domestic law and those EU standards, intended to build a warehouse of dangerous waste, only a few hundred meters from primary school. Imagine now what these unfortunate people are facing. The SRS MP Dusan Maric will talk about it a little more later. As far as the International Convention on Maritime Contamination from Ships, although Serbia has no sea, so little and funny need for this Convention is concerned, it is not against to mention some information to those who listen to the data, namely the Mediterranean. The Mediterranean is about 30% of the world's oil and derivatives tanker transport, and its shores are full of tourists every year. Every day, on average, 2,600 tons of oil is poured into the Mediterranean. Since it's a closed sea, the consequences can be catastrophic. The vast majority of the oil spill comes after the illegal washing of the open sea tankers, and there is a direct threat to all the living world in the sea. A good part of the countries are members of the EU from Europe, such as Spain, France, Italy and Greece, and that means that there are strict environmental laws, high awareness, as our government officials like to say, but we see that in reality these laws are respected, which are based on us even though we don't have the sea. Now I would like to say something about the European Convention on the International Transport of Dangerous Freight in Road Transport and the European Agreement on the International Transport of Dangerous Freight on Internal Waterways, on something that has to do with environmental and transport, and may also have far-reaching consequences for the population and the environment. As far as international waterways are concerned, there is one provision in Article 1(3) that says that the Agreement does not apply to ships and auxiliary ships of the Navy. Here we need to ask the question – whose Navy? We rightly ask ourselves, Serbian citizens, when we keep in mind the SOFA agreement on the free passage of NATO troops through Serbia, the use of all traffic resources, both water and land and air, then, when we have in mind the open aspirations of certain, unfortunately, high-ranking civil servants towards NATO, who, besides the destruction of Serbia, were celebrated and scattered by uranium waste across Serbia. What will bother them that anything in any form can be transported by means of their means of transport, either by waterway, or by road traffic, even if it is a threat to the environment in the Republic of Serbia? Something similar to this in the Convention of International Transport of Dangerous Freight in Road Traffic is only in this case Article 4(3). Something that concerns you even more is contained in Article 7. The European Agreement on the International Transport of Dangerous Loads on Internal Waterways, in particular, under point 1) of point A, on this provision of hazardous matter, may be accepted by the State to be transported through its own territory although these substances do not meet all of these standards, which are shown in this Agreement to detail, of close to a thousand antiquities. This means that if the state gets a tempting offer to pass some kind of dangerous burden through our country, they'll be able to carry it out at their own risk. I know that both the minister and anyone else who decides something in this country will absolutely rule something out. I will give a drastic example that has remained an enigma for the public in Serbia until today, concerning these issues. It was a long time ago, 21 years ago, but it's not an excuse to hear what's going on in our head. In 1989, Germany's "Barbara Blomberg" thruster, Dunavo, carried poored uranium from Germany through Yugoslavia. It was a quantity of 1,200 tonnes of waste, worth about two billion dollars. This is witnessed by many celebrities and individuals who were then in charge of protecting the environment, then, doctors, recognised experts, then delegates in the Federal Assembly. The entire crew of the ship is almost dead, and according to the distinguished Dr. Sibin Ilic, they were part of a part and Serbs who did the job part-time during the trip through Yugoslavia. They admitted themselves to getting big money. It's a famous story that Geiger's counters near the Danube broke at the moment of the convoy's passing. One part of the load went to Romania by boat "Peterhof", most likely to the Malovac thermal power plant, seven kilometers from our border, and the other part ended up in a "boron base". In addition to the Danube, countless specimens of the dead amphibians on the branches and bushes that were first killed by large radiation could be seen. At that time in Belgrade, in August 1989, radioactivity was 3,600 times the limit and it was found to have come from the east, from the direction of Bor. As far as the cargo itself is concerned, there is a report from the German and Austrian institutes that the ship carried radioactive matter, heavy metals and carcinogenic chemicals. Turkey then banned the landing of cargo on its territory. The consequences of all this are terrible. The percentage of cancer patients in eastern Serbia, i.e. in Timoko, is far higher than in other parts of Serbia. The average mortality in the pine area has been significantly increased, and a special tragedy is the increasing incidence of malignancy in children. This is just an example, and let us all be taught that agreements, laws, conventions are never enough to prevent one of these crimes against the population and the state at all. And then there were probably laws in then-Yugoslavia, but something like this happened. Also, we have another example of Bor. It is a concentrate with extremely dangerous elements, which was transferred from Portugal in 1989 by the ship "Union" to "Luke Bar" from where it was transported to the "boron smelt". The ship's cargo no one in the world wanted to buy, not even Ceausescu's Romania, and then Albania refused to do so. According to Milija Grujičić, former RTB leader Bor, then about 10,000 tonnes of concentrate with mercury, arsenic and talyum ended up in the copper smelt. By processing it into the city and the environment, believe it or not, it dropped 570 kilograms alive, which means that every resident on average dropped 10 grams alive. How illegal this mode of transport can be, but with the knowledge of the largest structures, NIN journalist Dragan Jovanovic shows that then German Foreign Minister Gensher has threatened then Foreign Minister Budimir Lončar to stop any campaign in the domestic press, otherwise all semi-illegally-moved pirates of Roma origin will be returned. How hot a problem this may still be is the fact that a Dutch MP in the European Parliament asked for information on the illegal transport of hazardous waste from some EU countries to Balkan Islands in 2002. These are just examples that should serve us as a warning that they are not sufficiently declared laws but also high awareness of responsible individuals who are at some point on significant state functions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39068	Thank you. The word has an MP, Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39069	Ladies and gentlemen, the chances of Serbia's football team becoming the champion of the world on summer in South Africa are really very small. But I don't think there's any doubt that this year's Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will become the world's champion in the number of passed laws. Last year we were in this discipline, if I remember correctly, the second or third in Europe. This year we will no doubt be champions of not Europe, but of the world. With that in mind, I don't think it would be an excuse to have football team head Radomir Antić and his associates consult with Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic at the most recently on the effectiveness of the work and perhaps that would give some results in the final success of the football team. We have situations where in Serbia factories stand, the country spreads a general epidemic of unemployment. People have no business, but that's why the Serbian Parliament works in two, and we had a situation, when we discussed Srebrenica, that it works even in three shifts and impact products laws. The problem is that most of these laws are of no use, no practical effect. Last year, I think we passed something between 250 and 300 laws. At the same time, between 180 and 200 000 people were left out of work in Serbia. It's not direct, but it has indirect connections. Sometimes I feel like the Assembly is working as if the people have chosen us to work on the norm. At the time, as a student, through the Student Association, with a group of colleagues, I was digging canals on a football field in Železnik. At first, we did it on the captain's desk. Later, however, in order to get the job done as soon as possible and to make money as soon as possible, the employer and I agreed to do it at the norm. How construction workers tend to say we were working on a chord. I do have a feeling, and this confirms the agenda of this session and the way it is happening, that this congregation is working on the norm, as if someone had determined or ordered, set out how many laws the National Assembly must adopt during a certain period of time and now we are trying to fulfill the assigned task. It doesn't matter that most of the people's messengers haven't even seen many of these laws, let alone read. At this session, we are discussing, I think, about 60 laws on the validation of international conventions, agreements, contracts, etc. In front of the citizens of Serbia and this high home, I say there are no MPs in this 250-seat assembly who have read most of these conventions, agreements and agreements. Please, if there's an MP who did this to call to deny me, and I'm going to try and prove to him that he's not telling the truth. We are today discussing the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Regional Centre for the Environment for Central and Eastern Europe, on the legal status of the Regional Centre for the Environment in the Republic of Serbia and on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on Strategic Environmental Impact Assessment, with the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in the Cross-border context. It's hard to read, let alone remember. At the same time, we have a situation where the Serbian government violates its own decisions on the need to make an environmental impact assessment. The Serbian government adopted the Regulation on 11 December 2008 under which an environmental impact assessment is necessary for warehouses, for waste dumps. It's something that's meant to be. What else do you need an estimate if you don't need to dump dangerous waste? However, only six months later, on June 25th 2009, the Serbian government made a decision, concluding that a disposal of dangerous waste was carried out in a military facility above the village of Krnjeva, the municipality of the Great Plan, which is state property of the Republic. In the same conclusion, the government excluded the facility from the Ministry of Defence's jurisdiction and gave it to the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning. Now, what's the big deal here? The point is, there's no environmental impact assessment. Sounds amazing. We adopt international conventions which we commit to respect our obligations, that we will take care of this very important segment when it comes to such objects, when it comes to environmental protection, and that we are creating a warehouse of hazardous waste without assessing the impact on the environment. Today in Serbia, by law, you cannot lift the shed, you cannot lift the house without that assessment, and the government is making a decision that is in the middle of the forest, at the border between Šumadija and Pomorava, in a populated place, where there are four thousand inhabitants, not far from the rural school attended by several hundred students, several of the locations where the water springs are located, several hundred meters from the first rural houses create a warehouse of hazardous waste, without an estimated environmental impact. It's simple, amazing. Works on redecorating this military facility began in February. The news that a storage dump of hazardous waste would be built in their place upset the people of Krnjev and the Great Plana. They have organised, and since then they have kept the facility under constant blockade, which by physical guards, which is blocked by construction machines and they claim they will not give up the blockade until the government changes its unreasonable decision. Under public pressure, however, the government has suspended work to adapt the facility, we heard from Minister Dulic that the government will not give up its dangerous intention to store dangerous waste above the village of Krnjevo. I ask a logical, healthy question, which would probably be asked by any citizen of Serbia – how could it be that, besides so many abandoned parts of Serbia, uninhabited parts of Serbia, besides so many military facilities in those locations, besides so many military facilities in the mountains, the government is making a decision that dangerous waste stores along the highway, alongside Morava on the drain of a densely populated place? I draw attention to the fact that this is not just about causing permanent danger to the health of the people of Krnjev and the environment, but about the harsh violation of a series of legal regulations. Now I'm going to use this time that I have left to point to these remarks. The works on that facility began before the local self-government and the local community of Krnjevo were even aware that their village was designated for a location where they would store dangerous waste. The government had a legal obligation to meet local self-government with its intention. At the very least, it's a household custom. When you go to a guest's house, you make an announcement, let alone when you're carrying a load of dangerous waste. You're going to his house to make facilities that may endanger the health of the population, and you're not announcing yourself. The next thing, with the spatial plan of the Municipality of Velika Plan, which has been confirmed by the competent republican authorities and by the regulation plan for the inhabited town of Krnjevo, it is not envisaged that a similar facility can be built in that location and that a dangerous facility can be stored in that location. Practically, unless the government gave up its intention, it would directly violate the Law on Planning and Construction, Article 145. The Serbian government also adopted a regulation on how to deal with hazardous waste. Under that Regulation, an object where hazardous waste is delayed cannot be less than five kilometers from the inhabited area. It may only be in cases where there is a major natural obstacle, a mountain or something that protects the village from potential danger and in that case the distance must be at least two kilometers away. The facility in Krnjevo is located several hundred meters from other rural houses and there are no physical barriers except for several hundred trees and orans that are sown with grain. Under the same regulation, according to the same Regulation adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the waste storage facility must be at least three kilometers away from protected natural goods and cultural monuments. This warehouse is located several hundred metres from the building of the oldest rural elementary school in Serbia and the 17th century cabin church, which according to all tourism and catalogues of the SPC is treated as one of the most important monuments of culture from that period of time. The next warehouse is located several hundred metres from source water, which is used by citizens of Krnjev and pupils of the primary school. The works on this facility are started without a building permit. The building inspector came out on the spot and found there were no necessary papers. So he made up the record in the presence of witnesses. He met the Ministry of Environment. He's met every state secretary and government in charge. However, they tend to remain deaf. And, as I said, the last thing, there was no environmental impact assessment done. The government and the ministry officials are trying to justify this intention with a fact, a claim, that the facility is not in the jurisdiction of the civilian authorities, because it is the property of the defence ministry. That's not true! The facility is owned by the Republic of Serbia. The Republic of Serbia has given its time to the Ministry of Defence. In its conclusion of June 25th last year, the government excluded the facility from the defence ministry's jurisdiction and handed it over to the Ministry of Environment. The environmental ministry's decision committed itself to taking care of the facility's safety. So it's clear that it's a civilian facility. The next important moment that speaks in favour of this issue that the government is wrong is the fact that dangerous waste will be stored in the facility by a company that received the job in a public tender. And what, in any case, is not something that will calm the people of Krnjeva is the fact that this company, this company, is based in the Republic of Croatia. With regard to this topic, it is even more understandable that the resistance of the people of Krnjev is if it is given the fact that several kilometers from there, on the way to Smederjevska Palanca, there is a large waste dump that has literally made it impossible for the owners of surrounding parcels, the surrounding agricultural land to process it properly, not to talk about the possible impact on these water springs for years. The Municipality of Velika Plana and the local community of Krnjevo have repeatedly addressed the Municipality of Smederjevska Palanka and the competent state authorities to take certain steps to remove the deposit, however, and those requirements have been ignored. Now, in the end, when the state and its government in one of these obvious and brutal ways, and on matters of great importance, which is the most important issue, it is the environment, the health of the population, when they violate their own laws, and we see international laws, and we will now confirm their adoptions, we will assume the obligations that exist in these international laws, the question arises – how can citizens be expected to respect these laws and to respect that own state? I must also express my dissatisfaction with the Committee on the Environment. The Assembly of the Municipality of the Great Plan has asked the Committee on the Environment to hold an emergency session on this matter. The president of the Committee, Cedomir Jovanovic, scheduled the session. The session was held, however, without the presence of the quorum, because the session was boycotted by MPs of the ruling coalition. At that session, Mr Jovanovic concluded, based on the facts available, that this is a very dangerous activity by the government of the Republic of Serbia, on illegal activity. He concluded that he would address Prime Minister Cvetkovic in writing, that he would address the environment minister, that he would consult the presidents of all parliamentary groups, so that the Committee could hold a session. He even found, if that did not happen, that he would hold consultations with the opposition presidents of parliamentary groups to ask – that the issue of dangerous waste in Krnjevo be found as a special item of the Serbian Parliament's agenda. He even announced the possibility for members of the Committee to visit Krnjevo and to see what it was about. In conclusion, I request the chairman of the Committee on the Environment to schedule an emergency session of the Committee. I appeal to representatives of all parliamentary groups, that all MPs come to that session, that the members of the Committee go to the field in Krnjevo and determine what it is. I think that's the fairest thing. If the Assembly of the Great Plan Municipality, if we citizens of Krenjeva deceive the public, then I think it is in the interest of the government and in the interest of the Committee to go out on the ground, to bring out arguments and say – gentlemen, you deceive the public, because all the conditions here are met to turn this facility into a warehouse of hazardous waste. Finally, according to all the facts presented, I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia to make one reasonable, logical move, in accordance with the law, in accordance with its legal and moral obligations – to put aside its Decision of 25 June 2009 and to find a more suitable location for the storage of this waste. Wherever that location is, it will be harmful and will pose a danger to the local population. However, I say, it is not the same if dangerous waste is stored in an abandoned mine, in an uninhabited area or stored in a village that has 4,000 inhabitants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39070	Thank you. The word is from the MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39071	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is how we end the principle debate of this 94-point marathon session. Today we are considering 17 agreements. Of course, I'm not going to name those agreements, because I don't have time for that, so if I did, I'd spend half the time I thought I'd talk about. I'm going to focus first and foremost on several agreements in the area of passenger transport and things in international road traffic. First of all, I will talk about establishing an agreement in this area with Hungary, Switzerland, Iran and Montenegro. Let's cut to the chase. I'll start with Hungary. First of all, Hungary is our northern neighbour, and I think, though, that Montenegro is now our neighbour, but with Hungary because the traffic infrastructure and transport of Serbia and Hungary are largely compatible because of Corridor 10 and Danube, as well as some other things. This agreement with Hungary differs somewhat from the agreement with the other countries I have counted, for the simple reason it refers to combined transport of goods and logistics, while the rest are primarily related and treated by passengers and things in international road traffic. The combined transport today is rightly forging and, above all, alternative to road traffic, in order to reduce transport costs, and also because of another very important factor, and this is about preserving the environment and environmental standards. The combined transport requires that I remind, by rail, by road and by waterway. Of course it's okay and, like I said, we should and it's good to force that kind of transport. Simply, however, when it comes to the state of Serbia and when it comes to the circumstances in which we are now, this is almost impossible or very little feasible. We all know, or we don't need to remind, what condition our railways, our cars, our locomotives, our railway infrastructure and complete rail logistics are in. However, we have a God - given Danube River, which passes through our country nearly 600 miles [600 km] long, and it is watered throughout our country for ships of higher load capacity, that is, for ships of solid loadability. In addition to the Danube, we also have Sava, which is also watered throughout our country. Unfortunately, what's it worth, if we know the tycoons bought our ports, bought our shipyards, and there's nothing out of it. It is no accident that the SRS, or the head of our parliamentary group, Mr Dragan Todorovic, points out every Tuesday and every Thursday precisely to the case of privatisation and the state of "Luke Belgrade". Here, just from this agreement, based on these few things I'm talking about here, we see what the significance of this port is and we see that this combined transport is now increasingly forging in the whole world. This deal with Hungary, let's go back to it, let's stick around, there are fundamental shortcomings. It is known that Hungary is an EU member, and Serbia is not yet. There, in the text of the agreement, it states – that it does not affect the rights and obligations of the Republic of Hungary because it is in the EU. I have noticed one more thing, in this agreement, where it is said - the Serbian side is freeing the Hungarian side from road charges, while the Hungarian side does not do so, but only foresees a tax exemption on a motor vehicle. I have to admit that this is, as I interpret it, something really extremely unfavourable. I can admit this isn't clear enough for me. Here, there is Mr. Mrkonjic and his associates, and I saw that he signed this agreement, so I would like, after discussing the MPs on this subject, to say something about this, that is, is it really possible for these agreements to be signed? Furthermore, when it comes to this agreement with Hungary, it is said – it stimulates combined transport, which is good, but you have seen already that practically Serbia will have nothing of it, while again, this agreement will benefit Hungary much more, because Hungary has much more developed combined transport than the state of Serbia. That's what I personally believed, because I've been to that country many times. The second thing, when it comes to this agreement with Hungary, is that I saw there a provision relating to the state of emergency, and there it is said, if this emergency occurs – foreign Contracting Parties are taking joint emergency measures in order to ensure the smooth movement of transport. I simply don't think that this was necessary to get into this agreement, because what if there were some problems on "translation" at the Gerdapa on the Danube? We know that Gerdap is more than 500 kilometers from the Hungarian border. Does this mean that we will wait, according to the letter of this agreement, for someone from Hungary to come and help us intervene and eliminate any difficulties? For example, there is another case, even worse, if such problems arise, that assistance or intervention of military-technical resources and the faces of military experts is necessary. Are we, in that case, going to allow someone's military technical means and someone's military faces or military experts to patrol and spar with our country? I know that agreements like this can't be changed in the National Assembly, but I think at least this last thing I was talking about should have been a little bit more elaborate or thrown out of the deal, it should have been taken more care of. Just one thing to mention, my colleague Milan Avramovic also mentioned an authorised representative, there it is said that imports and exports from Hungary to Serbia are in constant growth and vice versa. I'd like to hear it right here when it comes to exporting which country has more growth than these two countries signatories of the contract? I'm going to have to, since time is running out, say something else about some agreements. Namely, I said in an opening statement that I would also mention an agreement with Iran, Montenegro and Switzerland. These agreements concern the transport of passengers and things in international traffic. As far as Iran is concerned, the SRS is grateful to the country, the country, for not recognising Kosovo. Iran is one big country, one great force and one of the largest Islamic states, and from that aspect, of course, we support this country. However, when it comes to this agreement on international road traffic, I personally believe that the agreement will have nothing from the state of Serbia, and that the only benefit will be from the state of Iran. Unfortunately, it was a time when our trucks used to drive for both Iraq and the Middle East, both for Iraq and Iran. I come from Nis and I remember... (Srdjan Milivojevic, MP, from the post: Iraq or Iran? For both of us, Mr. Milivoevich. As I come from Nis, I remember that once a powerful transport company called Srbiatrans was going deep into Iran with its trucks, crossing the Shat El Arab River and driving to the Persian Gulf itself. Unfortunately, that time has passed, the company I mentioned here, of course, no longer exists, as many companies do, so I believe that Serbia will not benefit from this agreement at all. As far as the Agreement with Montenegro and Switzerland is concerned, I noticed that these agreements and not very personal to agreements are essentially a copy of the recently adopted Law on International Transport in Road Traffic, which we adopted about a month ago. Although both of these agreements have taken over the same definitions from this law, when they look at each other, it is evident that they are not in the same original text entered into these agreements, but were changing, first of all, the order of sentences, I do not know for which reasons, probably to show that they were doing something. I think that's where one big mistake was made. If they took something from one law that is the backbone of this agreement, then they should have taken it completely in the original text, so that it would be easier for them to find and monitor those people, those structures and those services that they are dealing with. In this way, the same definition in one agreement is interpreted as this, in another agreement in another way, and in the original Law on International Transport in Road Transport, it is quite different. Since I want to leave time for my other colleagues who want to talk about this, I can't help but mention this agreement on Montenegro, from a special aspect. Of course, Mr. Grouchy, this grudge I'm about to make doesn't apply to you absolutely, you have nothing to do with it. I have seen that this agreement with Montenegro in preamble states that this agreement is signed, written in both Montenegrin and Serbian. As many of us are here in the hall, there are not many of us, we have all taught schools, completed some schools, and none of us have ever learned or heard from school that there is a Montenegrin language, and even the biggest Serbs from Montenegro deny and do not know the existence of that language, so I really don't understand why it stands in the Agreement. Finally, to conclude, perhaps the largest number of laws we adopt today and today and within this session, and also within the time behind us in this mandate and the time ahead, may be the largest number of these laws apply to agreements, but I never thought I heard the information from any minister, not one government official telling us whether she was the other side or when she ratified any agreement. In particular, if you know, Mr Mrkonjic, I ask you - did Montenegro and when it ratified this agreement, did it ratify Hungary, did it ratify Iran and other countries? This is what I'd end up with. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39072	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milan Škrbić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39073	Your Honor, I'd like you to tell me how much time there is for the MP's group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39074	You've got 19 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39075	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the Ministry and respected citizens of Serbia, I must at the beginning, as well as all my colleagues, make an objection to the united debate of the 17 points of the law. We have four minutes left by law, and that's what's wrong, I keep saying that it's not good for any law in this way to pass, simply because we run through certain important things; and we don't complete and define many members or attitudes in these laws, especially when it comes to conventions. I'm going to try my current exposure to prove it on examples and cover as many of these laws as I can. In advance, I would like to say that I will remain the most in the proposal for a law confirming the Budapest Convention on the transport of goods on the inland waterways and something to touch the transport of dangerous cargo on internal waterways. We must all jointly conclude that international documents, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement document establishes a framework for mutual co-operation and the gradual approximation of European standards, and offers the possibility of co-operation and access to the EU market, within which free movement of people, goods and services and capital is possible, but provided that many things have already been prepared in our country, and only then do we adopt such laws and sign such conventions. The harmonisation of the rules for all modes of traffic aims to restructure and establish a comprehensive and balanced multimodal transport system that is adapted to the EU, while ensuring co-ordinated development and gradual liberalisation of the traffic market. The main objective of the EU's transport policy, including in this part of transport, remained essentially the same as guaranteeing continuity, increasing overall transport efficiency, reducing costs, higher environmental acceptability and transport of systems of all kinds of dangerous burdens, substances, and humans, and other goods and bulk. EU transport policy also takes into account the reduction of negative parts in the environment, and yet related to these conventions and these laws. The biggest weakness of the current transport system in the EU is the lack of connections between maritime, land, water and rail transport. Water transport, despite mild positive shifts, is still neglected, despite economic and environmental benefits, especially compared to road transport, more than 70% of the total trade between the EU and the rest of the world is carried out through shipping. Annually, over two billion tonnes of different goods pass through European ports. However, an important shift in the change of so-called. There's no model split for a simple reason why there's still no good connection to the inland waterways and railways, so the bulk of the goods goes by road. In other words, intermodal transport in concrete conditions has not yet become an alternative to road transport. One of the EU's greatest treasures, this should be pointed out, is the very wide-ranging network of rivers and canals connecting the Atlantic and the North Sea plums, and the Black Sea via the Danube and the Rayna-Maina-Dunav canals. The annual transport volume to the Danube is about 425 million tonnes of goods. Along with regional systems, a number of European countries are linked to river-canal systems with northwestern and northern sea ports. In particular, the ecological, energy and spatial efficiency of this transport subsystem should be highlighted. For the transport of dangerous substances, this mode of transport is almost ideal. We are witnessing EU enlargement in the East, there will be an increase in transport on the East-West route, especially when it comes to the transport of heavy and cheap goods in longer relations, such as heavy materials, industrial materials, dangerous loads, unpacked goods, construction industry products, waste and other goods. In relation to the infrastructure and means of transport available, this part of the EU transport system, and wider than the EU, is not being used enough. The reason why it is so lying in inadequate internal policy relative to investment. The advantage is given, we must conclude, Mr. Minister knows it best, other modes of transport, without maintaining the network of inland waterways and the removal of so-called. narrow throats. For example, comparisons for example, one liter of fuel can carry a mass of 50 tonnes on a road of one kilometer by road, a mass of 97 tonnes by rail, and an internal waterway or a 127-tonne waterway system on the same transport route of one km. The development of coastal navigation and navigation services on internal waterways will depend on the efficiency of port services, also linked to all these conventions to be signed and based on regulated competition. It is illusory to expect that there will be a spontaneous removal of disproportionateity with regard to the proportion of certain modes of transport. On the contrary, road traffic in an enlarged EU area can be expected to take up a monopoly position in the transport of goods unless it resorts to regulated competition measures, to control the growth of road transport, to provide opportunities for railways and other environmentally acceptable modes of transport to become a competitive choice of self- carriage. When it comes to inland waterways, the following objectives are set – elimination of bottlenecks, standardisation of technical elements, harmonisation of certifications for pilots, as well as rules during rest, development of a navigation aid system, etc. If we are talking about this package of laws, we must also mention our customs services, because they are also related to the transport of various burdens, both road and river transport. Today, the situation is such that trucks at Serbian borders sometimes stand twice as long, something has now improved on the matter, rather than they need to go around Serbia in alternative directions. In addition, the behaviour of our border authorities is absolutely inadmissible. Corruption has taken so much wave that it will take generations to root out or subdue to a negligible measure. Any of us who traveled anywhere in the world outside the Balkans must be ashamed to see the behaviour of our border authorities upon returning from abroad to Serbia. On the other hand, when we haven't remembered in time to amortise the effect of Serbia's traffic bypassing road corridors, we are left with another corridor, which I've been talking about all along, Pan-European Corridor 7, the Danube waterway. Fortunately, if I make a little joke, the Danube is still in Serbia, flowing through Serbia during exactly 588km and, fortunately, it is difficult to turn it away from passing through Serbia, but the EU, which is desperate for our passivity, would have done so already if possible. In this case, however, Serbia is doing everything in its power to make transporting goods and passengers more difficult for its waterways. I would like to remind you that the entry of Romania and Bulgaria into the EU has enabled ships to sail uninterrupted, without delaying at the border from Rotterdam and other Western European ports on the internal waterways until Constanta, Constanta is a port on the Black Sea. Of course, through Serbia, ships sail thousands and thousands of miles without stopping until they reach the Serbian border and there is a spectacle. Ships are controlled, absolutely every inch of the factory, work, living and machinery space, and the crews, believe me, since I have personal contact with them, may be a long time in my profession, as they say, are the only ones who don't control the body cavity. Customs are every day inventing new types of control, often seeking oil from the captain for faster ship processing, and unnecessarily retaining ships under the pretext of handovers, imagine. Let's say we come to the airport in Munich and they tell you at customs or control – please wait a few hours, we now have a shift transfer. In addition, each river crossing represents a state for itself by interpreting state laws in a specific way. In the text we talked about and some laws earlier when we touched on this topic, I think that we defined Serbia as a position between the EU and the EU, we are nowhere here, because we have not done anything for many years to improve the situation. I think that state policy has for decades considered us a black hole in the Danube, which we are physically, for all of these reasons just now. Thus, in addition to the problem of passing ships through Serbia, the merodative ones do not attach any importance to Serbian water transport, to the Serbian fleet, or to Serbian ports, and these water transport subsystems are the easiest way to "smugar" in Europe, if at least work on them, until it is too late for them, as well as for road transport. In addition to the voice of the local and professional public, the voice of European and world experts on transport orientation and Serbia's strategy has often been heard in Serbia in recent years. Several huge EU-funded projects have been carried out over the past few years, precisely in the area of traffic in Serbia, especially in the area of river traffic. In addition to the projects that have already been done, there are several other projects that are under way or will begin as soon as possible. I'm only afraid that all these projects only serve to fill empty spaces on the shelves of civil servants, and the projects have already been paid. Domestic and foreign professional circles have given the people in question many variations, many solutions, but none are applied. Starting with the depravity of ministers, not you, Mr. Mrkonjic, but all these last twenty years and the state of the country, we could justify the situation of why we no longer invested in this kind of transport, but we systematically destroyed everything we had, so today this kind of transport is almost negligible. We have another problem, and we have a question that is only being imposed – why are these projects paid when nothing is done? If I go back to the Danube and take a look at the map, we'll see that the Danube, by some miracle, passes through Serbia. It can be seen that the Danube directly binds us to the Black Sea harbor, and that waterway is our God's day. I'll remind you, most of you probably don't know that from here on out of Belgrade a boat can go to Sena in Paris. Waterways, the boat can reach Paris, just these channel networks of Raina-Maina-Dunav upriver to the Danube, but it is an unknown topic for many, and that is exactly what God has given us, and it has given us a Danube, 588km of waterway through Serbia. Instead of being technologically and organisationally trained to catch up with European and world practice, ports are privatised in the same way as shoe factories. If the locals don't know how to privatize the ports, there's someone who knows. There's no shame in asking. This privatisation of the port has set up only a tombstone for Serbian water transport. It's gonna cost money, and it's already costing. If the merodatives don't know how to subsidize water transport, port operations or shipbuilding, then again, there's someone who knows and is not ashamed to ask. Speaking of water traffic, in the water transport sector, the Ministry, once called, for capital investments, had to take care of it. It also had to take care of the employment of people who were not of the profession, but were party personnel. Let's compare it. Imagine if only one gynecologist worked at a gynecologist’s gynecologist at a gynecologist’s centre and all others were lawyers, biologists, veterinarians, bakers, on a party line. In revising current and future privatisations of ports, we hope that as soon as possible, it should be kept in mind that ports everywhere in the world are accepted as strategically important facilities for the overall economy of the country and that port management is regulated by a special and competent law. The privatisation of ports and ports cannot be accessed in the same way as in the privatisation of industrial combinations or agricultural land, as the privatisation of ports in world practice has been accepted as a special scientific area under the exploitation and economics of ports. Nowhere in the world has an example of the sale of the port or terminal to a company whose basic current or planned activity is not the exploitation of the port, avoiding exactly what happened in Serbia. Certain ports have been sold to companies whose core activity has nothing to do with the exploitation of ports and terminals, and which have no experience in this area. The result of this policy is to shut down port operations and use port locations for needs that have nothing to do with water transport. The privatisation model whereby concessions on already built or planned terminals in ports are given to businesses whose core activity is the exploitation of ports and terminals is one of the many accepted models in the EU. That jurisdiction must be defined by law. Since I've got about three minutes, I'm going to narrow this discussion down and mention these neglected invaluable resources. Every day, millions of euros flow through the Black Sea through the Danube, without exaggeration. The Danube could be the largest Serbian factory with an annual turnover of at least half a billion euros, not counting by-products such as tourism, hunting, fishing and so forth. The plans are made, though, but they're far from realised, given the gain, and they're not that expensive. According to some earlier estimates, it would cost about 220m euros, which is only one eighth of that famous national plan, and from that plan is extremely little given for this particular area. There are master plans, general master plans, which should have been worked on long ago and welcomed, in these days, many things prepared. The second part of the master plan concerns rehabilitation and improvement of waterways by the age of 25. As works to be completed in the short term, the remont of ship's translators on Gjerdap I and II, as well as the removal of all bottlenecks, were imposed. These projects also require the largest investment in the Danube, around 120m euros, and resources are still being sought. The international convention on the Danube navigation regime does not leave us with the current room to collect the use of guides that must be maintained and remounted. That is why we need to ask for grants from European institutions. Mr. Minister, I think you know it, that you are well-acquainted, one of the top priorities, if I can call it that, is the project of complex coastal arrangements and the Danube troughs, which should jointly run for Serbia, Croatia and possibly Hungary, given how the Danube behaves and how it has acted in this part of the last 40 years, it is possible that, over a few years, Apatin remains dry, and part of the Kopački Rit in Croatia becomes an island. Therefore, that part of the stream should be determined to be primarily safe and floating. The value of the projected work was about 10-15 million. Irregularity of the coast leads to interruptions of the waterways in those relations, because so-called Ade and sand move along the coast and stop sailing. We know you're on the Danube... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... on the quota that is in Apatin (just let me finish) over 700 stops sailing due to the threat of the bents, and when it comes to below 150, to stop sailing because these ades appear. Thank you for your attention, and I'm sorry I don't have any more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39076	Thank you, Mr. Squirt. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before I conclude a joint single search, I ask if anyone who has not used his right under Article 93. Does the Rules of Procedure want a word? Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39077	I'm sorry, I don't want to get up. This makes it easier for me. As always, my first sentence is that I am too pleased, not only with the participation of this number of MPs who are very professional, as if ministers were talking about the problems that are on the agenda. I thank all those who spoke, and I will go from lightning to man. I'll start with the ladies. I am grateful to Mrs Milosevic and Mrs Branko Karavidic for giving full support to agreements and laws concerning, above all, this part of the traffic that I am most in charge of, so to speak. You're absolutely right, all your suggestions that are well-intentioned and what can be done, we will. About Corridor 10, Mrs Milosevic, I will speak in the end, as well as about Corridor 7, with special pleasure. In response to Mr Avramovic, I will read immediately, because these issues have been brought through all these other discussions concerning Hungary and this agreement with the Hungarians, I will read, although I can see that you have already done this, these five conclusions that are very important. What are we accomplishing with this Agreement? First, the coordination of investments in rail infrastructure, terminals for intermodal transport and port; two, the creation of an alternative for road transport goods through a modern rail and waterway transport system and the preservation of the environment; three, that road transport from – to an intermodal transport terminal be exempt from paying certain fees and taxes; four, to keep trains in border stations sent by a combined transport system does not exceed 30 minutes; five, issuing reward licences in case of use of combined transport of Ro-La, Ro-Ro. Also, the agreement is reciprocal. Of course, we need our Hungarian licenses more than our Hungarians. And that's one of the problems that we solve in constant bilateral, as they say, conversations, but surely in that part, at least in the clean work, there's no problem. Of course, forgeries and all that's been said, that I'm not getting into the details right now, are a big problem not just in that part, but in all the other businesses, but now it's a matter of some other ministry, and that's what we have to deal with. As for the mixed commission, I answer lightningly as Mr. Avramovic knows what he asked. There is no mixed commission with Montenegro with any authority to deploy this or that. The point wasn't at all about that. So there's no authority. And it's all agreed on the basis of reciprocity. My associates are ready to sit down with you and Mr. Savic, of course, and I, to discuss this in detail, so that we don't bother people here right now. As for the other objections related to, say, Switzerland, Iran, etc., I am now responding to Mr Saviæ, it is true that we do not have a large trade in goods with Iran, but still, let's say, a thousand trucks, as my associates say, are going to Iran annually, still. It's not a small number of trucks. I agree he could be bigger, but today is the situation. As for Corridor, I will also answer to you, Mr Avramovic, in the end. Not to answer, but to say what I mean. As for Mr. Radisa Ilic, the environment is not my sector, but surely the government in this system will not allow such jobs to be done where it cannot be done. I don't know, I'm tied to the Poits and that direction. Now you've heard that we're going to go to that corridor, down from Pojat, through Kruševec, etc., in another way, traffic. But I'm not sure what you're talking about will be done in the Poiats. I'll check it out, I'll pass it on to Mr. Dulic right now, so I'll keep to myself the right to answer you, not to mention I didn't know what it was about. As for the concentrate. I don't know about the 1989 case, but I don't think anyone in this country is going to do that kind of stupid thing. While I'm in that government, as long as I have the strength to follow up on something and control it, I'm sure it won't be. As for Mr Dusan Maric, it's a similar thing, it's again related to the environment. As far as I know, the Space Plan of the Great Plan, it's not in the O.R. right now, so I don't want that, there's a big plan for business in Krnjevo, which I know very well, absolutely in the Space Plan there's no such thing. Is this some kind of activity related to some other thing, I don't know. But I can't, I'll look at it exactly when the decision was made, that is, on June 25th 2009, and see what it says in that decision, so I'll answer Mr. Dusan Maric, probably next week. As for Mr. Nikola Savić, who really has very specific questions. I've already answered for Iran. Let's start with the Montenegrin language right now. I'm famous, the media always has these features, that I don't know the border between Serbia and Montenegro at all, but that's the situation. Montenegro is a state, we are a state, and all agreements, this is the answer to the questions of MPs who have asked, such that mutual agreements and suggestions are important. That's why it's here. I'm not going to spread the subject now, when I went to Montenegro, I forgot I was in another country, so I even made some protocol problems down there. I forgot about the ambassadors and all that stuff, but it doesn't matter now. I mean, we have to respect those international regulations. As far as the agreements you asked about, thank you, sir, which I was talking about, they're all ratified. Look, there are several declarations of European laws here, where there is no need for special ratification, but just accession. We just join these agreements and give it to our ratification. About the ports, I'm not going to go after Mr. Skribic right now, and I'm asking him to listen to this. Of course the privatisation of the port was disorganised and it was the way it was, Mr. Shrkbić explained it nicely. Today, 11 ports are privatized from 13 ports, Danube and Sava. Half of it is held by people who have nothing to do with it, but it's an inheritance. Sam Apatina, Mr Milan talked about it, and besides Novi Sad, all ports are privatized. We're also passing a new law on ports, you know, very soon they'll be here in front of you, there's a lot of discussion, and too much, but well, we'll see, which will precisely define the status of all these ports, and especially those I'm talking about right now, that's 11 international ports, where we're going to solve this issue. But it's the way it is today. Of course, the Danube River as Corridor 7, is what, in traffic terms, and Corridor 10, are related to rail traffic and road traffic. What's going on in the media these days, that's what I'm saying, about these problems about Corridor 10 -- they're gone. You've never heard me say anything that's a problem for you, but that's what I call creative unrest. It's good that everyone in the state is worried that we're all going to work. It's a good thing we're still going to an organization, where, come on, I'm standing at that head of the people who do this job, with the full support of both the president of the state and the government, and of course nothing will interfere with the further course of the business on Corridor 10, what's going on in the media right now. No one has noticed and so far some people have left, and that, very high-ranking officials, and there were no problems, not because we were fighting, but because they can't follow the dynamics, but if you chose me for this place, and if you believe that this Corridor 10 will be finished, travel, at least, in the section between Dimitrovgrad and Subotica, give me that trust, that this job will be done. So don't worry about it, and the next job will be the Corridor 7 and the Danube River. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39078	Thank you. Mr. Avramović and Savić, I must inform you that we have completed the search and that I have the only opportunity to conclude a joint single search and thank Mr. Minister and his associates. I'd like to inform you that we're moving to the next point. Mr. Minister is otherwise in the mood to dialogue with all the members of Parliament, while we continue to work, talk, so I offer you this opportunity.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39079	We're continuing our work. We move to the 91st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON EDUCATION OF THE SPECIFIC AUTHORITIES ON APPLICATION OF THE PROPOSAL OF THE PROPOSAL OF THE PROGRAMMES FOR THE PROGRAMMES ON THE SENSE OF THE NEW CHILDREN FROM THE PARENTS (single Search) You received a proposal for a decision on the education of the Working Party for the creation of a proposal for the law to create formal legal conditions for the handling of the competent authorities following reports of the disappearance of newborn children from the maternity ward, which was submitted by the National MP Slavica Đukić-Dejanović. I remind you, according to Article 163(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours, as well as that this time shall be allocated to MPs' groups of MPs by a proportion of the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, and that shall be the MEP for European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the MEP group G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica Group - 25 minutes 12 seconds; the MEP Group Advanced Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS-JS Group - 18 minutes; the MEP Group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia MP Group – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS Group of Members – six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. Also, I would like to inform you that the mandated representative for the 91st item of the agenda, the SRS Parliamentary Group, is MP Zoran Krasic. In accordance with Article 163(2), paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the promoter, MP Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39080	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a proposal for a decision to educate the Working Party on draft legislation to create formal legal conditions for the handling of competent authorities following reports of the disappearance of newborn children from the maternity ward. Of course, it is a couple of excellances to the human subject, ethical, topic, professional subject, and, of course, that nothing only starts with us sitting here, that the continuity of Parliament's work requires that we continue some unfinished business from the previous period, and in that sense I would just like to inform you that the direct cause for us to go into this activity in this conference was to address the Commissioner for Information of Public Meaning, Mr Sabic, who addressed us in 13th of 12th of 2008 because he had more conversations with the representatives of the parents of missing babies, who in the conversation expressed great dissatisfaction with the absence of information on the effects of the measures on the proposals of the National Assembly's Joint Committee, which this problem treated in 2005, which this assembly declared itself in 2006 and reached a decision on the establishment of a working group. The essence and tendency of this task force's work should have been to monitor all those activities that would not allow an obsolescence institute, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, of course, to determine the truth above all. In that sense, I would like to inform you that I am acting on our rules of procedure, and I say, in accordance with the 2006 Parliament Decision, above all, I addressed the parliamentary groups that gave one representative to form this working group, and then I addressed the Ministry of Justice, Internal Affairs and Health who also gave members of this working group, and, of course, to the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, so that there would be experts in the working group who would contribute their work. There is a proposal ahead of you, which, hopefully, should not cause any dilemma and I am convinced, regardless of what is not technically, but, I say, both ethically and professionally, and deeply humanly, that we will definitely agree here and that we will all be in favour of forming this working group. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39081	Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39082	This is a famous topic, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic explained. It is true that in 2005, there is a large number of our citizens, parents who believe they have experienced, but I would still have to use the words "personal and family tragedy", at the time they were talking about some big suspicion. I have to say that all MP groups, at the time, have accepted the establishment of the Survey Committee, to have a conversation with the representatives, I think, even, that there is an association on the subject. There was a lot of information, a lot of data, simply, despair made people turn to us. Maybe I didn't go too far when I used this word "desperate," but something like that. There is no greater tragedy for father and mother if she loses a child, a child dies or dies, but this is very specific, they couldn't even have that worked-out feeling of parents, mother and father, because someone replaced or stole a child. That was really shocking, I know most of them were watching with the infidel, but some of the data was really inexorable. The National Assembly formed the Survey Committee. I say, all the parliamentary groups took part, they all got involved in it. I have reported more due to this agenda point, first of all, in respect of our late MP Dr Nedeljkovic, who was active in the committee and has contributed to the best view of the problem. I'm going to say a little bit about how there are some problems with the work group and why they exist. It's not about members of this task force, it's about principle issues. I must say, for the sake of the public, and I am going in line as stated in the motion for a decision, that this initiative has been answered by parliamentary groups: LDP, DS, Parliamentary Group of Minorities, SRS, G17 Plus, SPS, DSS, PUPS and New Serbia. Of course, you said here that there would also be representatives of the Ministry of Justice, Health, Home Affairs and two regular professors of the Faculty of Law in Belgrade. Now I have to refer to something that is point 3) of the proposal for this decision, which is the task of the task of the task force. It is all well stated here that the National Assembly at its session held on 14 July 2006 discussed the report of the Committee of Auditors, that the National Assembly decided that the National Assembly should also be involved in a kind of legislative activity relating to amending the rules in the area of criminal law, administrative law, family law and in the field of health. Of course, when spoken in the area of health care, first of all, it is thought that maternity homes don't do these things, that a child is born, and parents get confidence or some confirmation that a child is born dead, or that some other things don't happen, child replacements, etc. But there's a big problem here, I have to say, it goes beyond the importance of just these working groups. I'd say this task force is an ad hoc task force, that it should only look at this problem, that some solutions yes and then include someone who could be an official promoter. An official proposal under the Constitution could be a government, could be the President of the Republic, could be MPs. The Assembly cannot propose itself, even a committee cannot be a proposal under the Constitution. Therefore, someone should take that initiative. I think that the one who has to take the initiative is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because it should most of all propose laws that perhaps we should work on, to be ours, so that I can simplify it a little bit. However, it is incomprehensible to me, is it possible, in our legal system, to quote exactly these areas, therefore, criminal rights, administrative rights, family rights and what we call health care, there are no appropriate provisions that prevent these things from happening and there are no provisions that allow certain procedures of responsibility to be conducted against persons who violate regulations? It's incomprehensible to me, I'm just afraid it's not going to be on that Churchill thing, you know, when you don't want to work out a commission, a working group, they're just going to do something, to fight, they can't agree, the turkey pick doesn't work, and we had good intentions. What are the results? Nothing! I spoke to the representatives of this association and all the parties talked to these people, respecting their situation. I'm telling you, at first she was a non-believer whether it was possible for something to happen – when people started to present some documentation, there was quite a reason to suspect it. They went so specific that they even talked by names and last names, that's what they say today; these twins, now there's someone, and this, and that, and that, I don't want to talk about not devalue this topic today, so that someone doesn't get what I'm saying wrong. It is incomprehensible, is it possible that this area is not regulated by our regulations and is it not possible that the prosecution and the police and other competent state authorities, in the current state of affairs, do not possess that kind of jurisdiction in the matter of responsibility if something has been violated? I think there's jurisdiction. I don't want to devalue the subject, but if they couldn't find Canetta the Frog, they found him abuse of his official position, so they could probably find some work here too. From the point of view of court practice, there is also the possibility that some interpretations of this could be brought under some provision, whether criminal law, whether of any other regulations, etc. Why? Probably this topic is significant, exceeding the strict interpretation of some norms. I have to say this for the future work of the Working Group. We suggested Mr. Paiu Momchilov to be a member of this task force. We want to get involved in this business. We want to help. This is not a matter of political parties, I guess it's clear to everyone. This goes way beyond anything. A man for 30 years searching for his child, some 40 years searching, because they have no doubt they have not received an adequate answer, I must say that some have not even received a logical answer. I have to mention a group of people from Nis who are minor initiators of this, because really when you look at that file, it looks scientific-fantastic. But there's probably something about it. As the formulated point 3 of this proposal can be interpreted as doing something, on the basis of this, we will later amend these regulations, and on the basis of these amended regulations, someone will carry out the activities of 30, 40 years ago. That's what it looks like when you read this. You can nod your head to the will, but it is said just like this – to make up the texts of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements in those areas to create formal legal conditions for the conduct of judicial and other competent authorities, according to the reports of parents who suspect, therefore, according to those reports that have already existed for 30 years. Look, there's something going on today for the future. It can't work in the past as of today. That's why I'm returning the subject. That was already in our legal order. We must not have this decision to amnesty the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office and all other public prosecutors who have been competent to act on this. I'm just distracting you. I don't want any replicas or any disputes. I'm just paying attention that if we get into some business to do it, then we need to do this job seriously, not according to Churchill's methods -- form a working group, they're going to fight, it won't be any of that work. We have a very negative experience with survey committees, starting with the first Survey Committee that was formed there, somewhere, in the second half of 1993. In this building, too. Dafina, Jazda and the old foreign savings committee. That report has never seen the light of day. Meanwhile, there were many more of these survey committees. Barely parties in the Assembly agree on the formation of a polling committee, the polling committee does something, ends something. There isn't! This is one of the few cases where the report of the Committee of Auditors came to the National Assembly, the National Assembly adopted it, took over the commitment in 2006. Meanwhile, several presidents of the National Assembly have changed, I do not praise Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, far from it, but this should not be avoided. It is good that in 2010, too, the implementation of what the National Assembly decided in 2006. Well, of course it's going to be proposed by an MP from the government, that some of you are from the opposition, you wouldn't put this on the agenda, either, but this is the responsibility of the president of the National Assembly, and there's no need to make some miracle out of it right now. Now it's a miracle for us if someone meets their obligations under the law. It's not. It's a normal condition. It's an abnormal state of affairs when the law is broken, and when the regulations are respected, it's a normal state. You know, we should criticize those who break, and now we've introduced a manners to praise those who respect the law. Okay, media surveillance and that's not bad. I do not express doubt or fear, but I warn that if something is done, it should be done in quality. I also express the view that there are regulations in the existing legal system, there are provisions that can and must be resolved. The fact that the authorities weren't active, just to remind you, in those groups of people who suspected this happened was both the judge and the prosecutor and, as I recall, one of the officials of that association was a retired man, but he used to work with the police, so he used his professional skills to go through these copies of birth certificates, maternity reports, etc. Now I have to remind you, since the SRS, unlike other parties, is able only to remind you of what she used to talk about, what she used to stand for. We always stand for it, and today and tomorrow we'll stand for it. We're not ashamed of what we did. We are proud of what we did on the political scene of the Republic of Serbia, but we have some things to remind us of. When it was on the agenda of the Family Relations Act and when the provisions on the adoption of some children were first introduced in the area of family law, there used to be a restriction when it came to sick children, etc., not usually sick, but, like, God forbid it happened to anyone, etc., we then expressed doubts about whether those provisions should stand, then some of us seemed very brutal in the argument, but we talked about some abroad wanting to trade in human lives and organs. Of course, as usual, when the SRS says you're smiling, etc. Already, after a few years, when the story of the Yellow House came out, many of them froze their smiles and took more seriously what we were warning about. The fact is that we go a few months or a few years ahead, it's basically radicalism, root change, something from the foundation to change. And that should surprise you, we're not surprised. We're used to this initial misunderstanding. In order not to spread this subject, and I do not want to devalue the motion of a decision, to be clear, we will support this, but we are warning, notifying all future members of this working group that, in addition to having to do this job effectively, and the National Assembly in an adequate manner responds with a change of these regulations, but also draw attention to the fact that there are quite a number of provisions in the existing legal system in these regulations that allow this issue to be resolved. If the fundamental question that interests these citizens cannot be resolved, then the question of the responsibility of those who, apparently, broke the rules and did damage to all of us can be resolved. Believe me, it's a great shame when we have to discuss this. This is a difficult and painful subject. Anyone who's a parent will understand this situation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39083	Since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, 16 minutes and 30 seconds have been used. The word has a folk MP, Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39084	Gentlemen, since we have a single search, I would like to tell you that the amendment has been tabled by MP Milos Aligrudic at the proposal for this decision, and I would like to declare that I accept this amendment. The substance of the amendment is the proposal to include MP Milica Vojic-Markovic in the work of this body, in Chapter 1 instead of MP Milan Dimitrijevic. The reason is professional and congregation obligations, so there is no reason not to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39085	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) In that case, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of the search for a word in writing, and with the order of the MPs, submitted by the SRS Parliamentary Group, and we move on to the part of the session when the elected MPs have the right to speak, First on the list of speakers, is MP Petar Jojic, after which, MP Zoran Krasic. Please register with the Electoral Group's electronic system. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39086	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Chairman, it is obvious that a revision of Serbian legislation is necessary. This proposal for a decision indicates and confirms that for years nothing has been done in light of the lighting of these suspicious cases, and according to citizens' initiatives and according to reports to the competent state authorities, it is a large number of citizens who suspect – that their children have been stolen, that the fate of children is not known, that they suffer and thus seek help from the state authorities, but the state authorities have done nothing in this case. The revision of Serbian legislation is necessary, here you yourself confirm by this proposal that it is necessary to amend a certain number of provisions of the Criminal Code, which means that the Criminal Code can only be regulated in the right way by this matter, as well as by the Health Law. With parents who came to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I participated in the 2006 talks. There were large numbers who came before the National Assembly and asked for help from the MPs of all MPs, so the Assembly participated, in that part, through their respective institutions, which are committees. But the real results were not in that case, as you can see, this initiative is quite acceptable and should be taken into account only in an appropriate way to address this problem, which is important for some of our fellow citizens. As regards constitutional provisions, in Article 64. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is normised: "Children enjoy human rights appropriate to their age and mental maturity. ''In Section 2, it is said: ''Every child has the right to a personal name, to enter in the birth certificate, the right to know his origin and the right to preserve his identity. ''This provision obliges the National Assembly to adopt and regulate an appropriate regulation, and in my opinion the only regulation and law that can regulate this matter and make those irresponsible and those who have dealt with crime in this area responsible is the Criminal Code and the Health Act. This proposal for a decision, as Mr Krasic said, from his point of view and according to the SRS, is acceptable. With regard to the health care relationship and health care institutions towards citizens, especially children and mothers, I will draw your attention, only so much, that I received one letter from South Banat, more specifically, on behalf of South Banat, a group of health workers from Pancheva, who complain about the state of health in Pancheva, the hospital, and in particular point out that the birthright of the Pančeva hospital and the exercise of the right of the Health Insurance Act and the Health Act. Namely, a mother from Vrsac, Jelena Oliveric, found herself in Belgrade on December 31st to wait for her parents for New Year's Eve. As an emergency, the birth began and she could not travel to Vršac to give birth. She was immediately transferred to Starlight Health Center. That's where this mother gave birth, however, right after she left the hospital, of course, the Stargazer's Health Center sent the account of "Fillials in Pancheva" and "Philial Panchevo" refused to pay this mother 56,000 dinars of birth costs at the hospital on Starar. In a letter, in which they point out, employees of health institutions in Pancheva say – such cases were 170 and that the families and citizens of the Southbanat district were discriminated against. Women from South Banat County have no right to seek treatment in Belgrade. They point to some irregularities, and these irregularities are very large. They blame and accuse Dr Jelena Kovacevic, the chairman of the Medical Commission and the head of the Health Insurance Department at the "Filiala", as well as Smiljka Calic. So they made it impossible for families to take 15km from Pancheva or Kovina, Bela Church, Vršca, Plandišče, Alibunara, Kovacica, Opova, from Pancheva, to exercise their rights in Belgrade. I have to say, this is really unacceptable. This was the reaction. I believe that the competent authorities will have to respond to constitutional rights, and above all, the Health Insurance Act. You can imagine, ladies and gentlemen, that citizens from Panchev and from these surrounding places and South Banat have to travel to Sremska Kamenica for therapy without having the right to do so in Belgrade? These citizens are also exposed to great costs, great suffering, and therefore they need to access the arrangements of these rights that are closely related to children's rights in health institutions, children born, of course their parents and, above all, maternity care. It is not acceptable for us to treat our citizens this way, especially, I must draw attention, Madam Chairman, Mrs Komic, that Pančev's city is where the health status of children and our citizens is and how threatened, or most endangered, in all of Serbia. Imagine, for your information, in addition to those measures taken by both the Government and the Ministry of Ecology, which Mr. Dulic is taking, someone decided to further pollute Pancheva and build, so to speak, in the middle of the city "asphalt base". In that part of the city live mainly our fellow Hungarians and Slovaks and it is inappropriate for these people to experience that their children and they cannot live as they live in other cities. But Minister Dulic also took up the job and ordered Petrochemy and the Rafineria to shut down the pools with toxic substances that pollute the city at times 150 times. However, neither "Rafineria" nor "Petrochemia" are taking any measures to protect and close those pools, and I have information that Minister Dulic also said that the government has allocated twom euros to resuscitate those filters to solve the problem. As far as this is concerned, I would point out, there is a colleague, Novaovic, as a respected lawyer and a great expert, that this area can be regulated and regulated by the Criminal Code and the Health Insurance Act. In the end, I will not take too much time, I would have to take the opportunity to draw attention to you and suggest, Mr. Novakovic chaired the session the other night, on Wednesday, in the afternoon, and that session, in my opinion, was led quite correctly by the Vice President of the Assembly. MPs participated in the discussion, transmission was suspended due to matches. It's not moral and it's not acceptable when the games are over without that transmission continuing. What happened? The matches are over, cowboy films are starting in the US, and the continuation of the session of the Serbian Parliament starts at 01:00 the next day. Why would you allow that? Don't let that happen, Chairman, and also let me draw attention to the director of Television, Mr. Tijanic. Mr. Tijanic, in your Information Programme, do something to keep those weather forecasts from repeating themselves 30 times a day, and that the space on the "Television of the Republic of Serbia" doesn't just have to get those "coquettes" that lead that show in the morning and grin, laugh, laugh at the people, make fun of the viewers! See in the morning when you turn on television at six – weather forecast, 15 minutes pass – weather forecast, all day long, but therefore, please, there is no "Television" on what is the situation in agriculture, no schooling, no health care, no health problems in health care that I don't talk about. There's everything and everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39087	People's MP, please, let's remind ourselves together of Article 103 and the obligation to talk about a subject that's on the agenda, with full understanding of your grades on the TV program.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39088	Yes, it is. You're right, but I had to point this out to you as chairman. It is your right and it is your duty to be respected. To be respected by the Tianic! Tianic is not paid by someone from space, he is paid by the people and is paid by viewers and taxpayers. That's why, I'm sorry, this is what I wanted to point out, because I see they don't respect you. I regret that, and I demand that you be respected and respected by Parliament, not cowboy movies.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39089	Here we agree, MP, Parliament is respected that we respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Article 103, and we are talking about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39090	That's it. That's it. Thank you, and I'm done. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39091	Since Parliament time, 14 minutes have been used, I apologize 12 minutes since I interrupted you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Krasic, he is the last registered speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39092	Let me just pick up where Mr. Jojic left off. Mrs. Comic, you didn't get Mr. Jojic wrong. The Rules of Procedure bind us, but they do not oblige Tijanic, that is the point. But, well, let's get back to the subject. Without deeper entry into what is the essence of this topic, it must inevitably be said here about what our regulations mean, what our laws mean. Laws and regulations, if applied selectively or applied in a limited way, if measured in kilograms, 200 grams is applied, and 800 grams is not applied or this law is applied, this law is not applied, then, people, we don't need to be surprised at these situations at all. One is the quality of the law, and the other is the commitment of those people who need to apply that law. We all need to respect the law, but, you know, when that value criterion changes, or when one comes up, I wouldn't say para-state, parapsychological interests, then we have a situation where, I don't know, more in the media is talking about pets than kids. I think this topic is good today, just to draw attention to both the authorities and those who create public opinion in the Republic of Serbia that a priority must be made. This question doubts whether some children have been replaced, disappeared, etc. In maternity homes, he must get answers, both because of these parents, because of these children, and because of future children and future parents. A woman who goes to maternity care should go with confidence to go to a state institution where the law is respected, applies, where rights are guaranteed. I'm giving one idea to the Working Group and those who should be working on these regulations. Can any crime in this area get old? I'm opening a topic. Can it get old at all? One is a crime, the other is a crime. The crime contains a set of crimes, whether they are the same or different, does not matter. We have to solve this on behalf of our citizens, because of our people. If you don't trust the state, if you don't trust the government, no matter who's in power, don't bind it personally, we're doing this job for nothing. We don't want to talk about this subject anymore, about this agenda point. I'm taking the SRS position. We want to participate actively in this. Our representative will be Dr. Pai Momchilov. He showed for these few dozen years as a member of the SRS and an MP and expert in the area that has touch points with this topic and that he is competent and that he will help and, I remind you again, and present MPs and the public, on our Dr Nedeljkovic, who is once a member of the Survey Committee, we have this obligation to him as a member and to his family, according to his patients, since he was a well-respected man in Gornji Milanovac. That belief was shared by the other members of the Committee of Auditors. I happen to remember that from G17, I mean Snow, she ran this survey board, that it was well done. I think it was Snow White. Yes, Wildlife Dacin, I apologize to Mrs. Dacin. I know it was one of the few topics where we were all unique. Mrs. Comic, I'm sorry if I've gone a little too far with this weather. I've expressed my views on the SRS. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39093	Four minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? (Yes) National MP Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, proposing an act, does she want a word? (No) In this case, and before the conclusion of the Single Search, with the gratitude of MP Zoran Krasic, in the framework of the proposal for an act to express our gratitude and the chairman of the Committee of Auditors, the MPs of Živodarka Dacin, who, as a Subcommittee, led the Committee on Labour, Health and Social Affairs and, on behalf of the Committee, submitted the survey report, on which we will declare ourselves. I am concluding a single search on the motion for a decision, and since we have carried out a single search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the table and on the proposal for a decision in general. Before we set a break, on the basis of Article 85, paragraph 5, I am informing the MPs that we will be working today even after 1800 hours of debate over an act that will at that time be the subject of our work. In accordance with Article 27, today we will set a break of 13.05. This afternoon's work continues in 14.05, with discussion on the 92nd item of the agenda, i.e. the proposal for a decision on the choice of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39094	Good afternoon, Mr. Milivoevich, sit in the bench! That's what Mr. Bucky Angelkovic would say. We're starting the afternoon order. We move to the 92nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a decision on the choice of trustees for the protection of equality (single search) You have received a proposal for a decision on selecting trustees for the protection of equality established by the Committee for Constitutional Affairs. Before the search opens, I remind you that, according to Article 163(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups, a proportional number of MPs from members of the parliamentary group. Is there any need for me to read the time that is necessary? And that: MEP Group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; SRS Parliamentary Group – one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; G17 Plus Parliament Group – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; DSS-Vojislav Kostunica Group – 25 minutes 12 seconds; Parliamentary Group Forward Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; SPS-JS Group – 18 minutes; MEP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds;Sends group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them by these points of the agenda: Parliamentarian Gordana Komic, Parliamentary Group for European Serbia; National MP Dr Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic, SRS MP; we hope that Mrs Judita Popovic will bring authority, so she will be empowered, otherwise I have not read it. According to Article 163(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the National MP's representative, Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, president of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs want a word? (No) I thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) Mrs Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39095	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are currently facing a debate on the choice of the Commissioner for Equality, based on the Law on Prohibition of Discrimination, adopted by the National Assembly. I consider the debate on the choice of the Commissioner one of the most important discussions we have held in this House, which concerns one of the two parts that each policy deals with. I've already on several occasions explained why I'm going to vote for some law or reasoning which is why I'm criticising some law I'm talking about what I think is the subject of every policy. Any policy or change of space, by adopting regulation on changes in that space, well, whether it's laws that we're discussing in the context of the environmental debate, how in the next five, ten, twenty, or whatever years you want ahead, Serbia is going to use its natural resources, so when we're passing laws from the areas where we're changing the space in which we live, where the state of Serbia is defined, then we're talking about policies, the regulations that need to be made so that this space is good for generations that come after us. Construction isn't just a infrastructure, it's not just where there's going to be a mine, where we're going to use fresh water, where we're going to use the area for agriculture, where we're going to use the space for cities, in which we're going to develop Serbia evenly regionally, all of this together is a change of space with our full consciousness and responsibility, all of us MPs, how Serbia will look after the law that we're changing space. And that's one area just as important as the other area that we're talking about today. And this second policy area that changes social ties, the policy that we propose to regulate, that we change social models, that we change what is acceptable or unacceptable in society, the policies that we believe, that once we adopt regulation, that every single one of us will change the life of each one of us living in Serbia, and that it will change for the better, that we will be able to claim that because the National Assembly has passed some laws, some regulations, that change social ties, that change social models for society members, that the quality of life of each of us will be better on a daily basis. And that part is part of the policies involved in our debate today, by selecting the Commissioners for Equality. In three parts, I'll share my exposure. The first is my argument in favour of candidate Nevena Petrusic. The second, a comment on the law itself and, as once elected, with a majority of us 250 MPs, therefore, with 126 votes of MPs, what it will change in its future work, Nevena Petrusic, in social models in social relations, in everything we consider to be socially unacceptable behavior, in social unsatisfactory behavior, in social harmful behavior, in discrimination to anyone, and based on what we have defined as discrimination in the law. Part three, my comment on the context of the course and the time of the candidate for the Trustee and my assessment of what is at that time, while the competition for who will be the candidate for the Information Commissioner, my assessments of what is socially unacceptable, socially undesirable, or should be devoid of value from our society. So, Nevena Petrusic, instead of reading the fertile and long work biography Nevena Petrusic, her results in scientific papers, her results in the sector she was working on voluntarily, i.e. in the NGO sector, where the moss was dealt with, indeed, issues of equality, its results in what it managed to move when it comes to the University of Nis and Law School. I will read the letter of support of Nevena Petrusic for the choice of Commissioner for Equality, signed by 99 NGOs and nine institutional mechanisms, because I believe that the contents of this letter, apart from my personal attitude, is the best possible candidate for this place, is something that best describes the qualities required by the work of the trustees for equality. The letter reads: "We provide you with this letter of support from citizens' and citizens' associations during yesterday to grant the candidacy of Professor Nevena Petrusic for the choice of Commissioner for Equality. Based on direct experience in co-operation with Professor Petrusic, in the past more than 15 years, we know how active and selfless he is in protecting human rights and we believe that he is a person of high professional and moral qualities, which is why we support this candidacy. Professional engagement, Professor. Petrusic, in educational and scientific work and the field of its scientific interest, civil procedural law, extrajudicial dispute resolution, gender studies, establishment and work at the Faculty of Law in Nis, as well as involvement in multidisciplinary gender studies at the University of Novi Sad, specialist studies of Family Mediation at the Faculty of Political Sciences in Belgrade, published scientific papers and research projects, speak convincingly about the professional competences of the candidate to perform the tasks of the Commissioner for Equality. Professor Petrusic has been a prominent activist in civil society for many years, founder and volunteer SOS telephone for women and children victims of violence in Nis since 1993, founder and member of the Women's Research Centre from Nis since 1997, member of the Executive Board of the Victemological Society of Serbia since its establishment in 1997, and more than 50 projects in the field of gender equality, protection from discrimination and gender-based violence, human rights, mediation, over 100 public lectures and workshops dedicated to human rights for activists and activists over 40 NGOs, not only in Serbia, but also in the countries of the region. The trust of a large number of citizens and citizens who have had the privilege of working with it and learning from it has just become an activist in the field of human rights. The overall engagement of Professor Petrusic in the field of human rights, particularly in the field of gender equality, was the reason that in 2009, she was granted recognition by the OSCE mission, by choosing the person of the year, for what she did to improve human rights, not only on the theoretical plan, but in practice. The support we provide the candidate is an expression of our belief that she will best demonstrate her expertise and activeism in civil society at her job. We stress that, besides civil society organisations, support has also been joined by institutional mechanisms for equality, as well as by many prominent figures. ''In favour of the belief that Neven Petrusic will be able to do a job, which I hope, with our 126 votes, I would be pleased to see the political maturity of the National Assembly in the case of the election of the Commissioner for Equality, to show the first result of the dialogue, which is ongoing in this assembly, between us who have different political views on many other issues. It is my assessment, and I hope I am not mistaken, that on the issue of the need to check whether we are proposing a real candidate for the Trustee of Equality may be an agreement of such a kind that the election of Nevena Petrusic ends with a significantly higher number of votes than 126. We'd send three good messages with that. First, that we are not blind and that we are not living out of prejudice over someone's political commitment when it comes to his professional career. Secondly, we would suggest that we demonstrate together our mutual concern that equality, i.e. the ban on discrimination in our society, is actually taken seriously into account. Thirdly, we would show that we can skip more often invented barriers, more frequent stereotypes and prejudices that we feed ourselves, more often completely unnecessary, almost, well, with a cause in political immatureness, attitudes, than there really is as a fact. But I am convinced that if, in the case of elections for the Trustee of Equality, there is no more than the necessary 126 is not far from the day when some similar debate on changing social ties in our society and social models will end by telling us 250 – yes, we want Serbia to change this way, because we see nothing wrong. It can always be better and I have no doubt that the days will come when we will discuss how we can do something better and what each of us can do to make it better, but to agree on the basic directions for changing social ties and social models in Serbia. What will Neven Petrusic do? The Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, which we have adopted in this assembly, clearly defines what are the specific cases of discrimination which will be subject to the work of the Commissioner for Equality. I will list them because I consider them important that, from time to time, this law, and certainly through the future report on the work of Nevena Petrusic, in our Assembly, is a water debate, because I consider such a debate to be of paramount importance for the future of our society. Special cases of discrimination in the Law which the National Assembly has brought, which obviously exist or may exist in our society, are discrimination in public authorities proceedings, discrimination in the field of labour, discrimination in the provision of public services and use of facilities and surfaces, prohibitions of religious discrimination, discrimination in the field of education and professional training, gender discrimination, discrimination based on sexual orientation, discrimination on children, discrimination based on age, discrimination against national minorities, discrimination on political or trade unionity, discrimination on persons with disabilities, discrimination on health grounds. All the numbered forms of discrimination tell us, and the legislator and all of us who voted for this law and those who did not vote, did not dispute that these forms of discrimination exist in our society and that it is necessary to establish a mechanism, an institution, that it is necessary to establish an institutional form of fight against discrimination that is counted as specific cases of discrimination. Before I say what will then be the task of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality under the list of special forms of discrimination, I am obliged to share with you my personal view of what to do with discrimination in our society. Discrimination, as an attitude, occurs when you define anyone on the basis of only one feature and you have the power to just because someone is a woman, which is someone else's religion, which is someone who's unemployed, which is a child, a small and unprotected child, which is a member of a marginal social group, which is, by any means, a member of a group, just because you generalize your attitude towards him and because society doesn't specifically defend you, you "ga" or "is" discriminatory. The Messenger casts smokers. Yes, there is a form of impatience, completely unnecessary, and when it comes to a habit that society wants to declare undesirable. Fortunately or unfortunately for those who use tobacco, they are not subject to this law, so that Neven Petrusic cannot complain. Once we've passed the law. Discrimination as an attitude, therefore, occurs when you generalize based on one feature and then based on the position of power you have, you discriminate against that person. When we adopted amendments and additions to the Criminal Law in 2002, the family law was the biggest problem in the National Assembly to determine that there was domestic violence. The biggest obstacle was to establish that discrimination within the family, therefore, attitude – you are a woman, or you are an old woman, or you are a child, or you are a husband, regardless of who is half and gender, the view that just because you have a position in the family someone else has the right to beat you up, just to break that obstacle that it is not a private matter was a huge step for changes in social ties in Serbia, because we could move on with attitude – no violence, no discrimination can be a private matter for anyone. Every violence is a social problem. When we find that out, I repeat my request to consider a joint vote for the Commissioner for Equality, candidate Neven Petrusic, then we can begin to change the social models that society has given us so far. No violence is a private problem. Every violence is a social issue and every discrimination is a social issue. Why do I insist on dialogue on this? I allow myself, of course, to be argued that I have no right, but living in a society where you have daily cases of violence just because no one says - we can't, we can't give enough, because we are representatives of citizens who won't suffer violence! From the good words, from the magical opinion that the tradition of our people or society in which we live is not such that we do violence does not benefit at all. The only benefit we can have in changing social ties and social models in a society where violence exists is that a sufficient number of us every day, every day, says that every violence, every discrimination is an unwanted social behavior, unacceptable social behavior. You can't beat someone in a family who's smaller than you, you can't beat yourself up at sports events, you can't get on trains and hit strangers, you can't if you're a professor to tell your student that he's a cattle, that he's stupid. You can't if you're in public business to treat other people with no decency, you can't be entertained by violence. Looking at the news, looking around and traveling around Serbia, I noticed that there are a number of people, because no one tells them that this is not to be entertained by violence. According to my deep conviction, this is the last stage in which you can come as a human being, that violence amuses you, that you find it funny that someone is threatening someone, that someone is discriminating someone, that someone is disqualifying someone, that someone is disqualifying only on the basis of one of the qualities that this person has, whatever the traits are, and all the traits are listed in special cases of discrimination, in the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, which obliges us to choose the Trustees for Equality, and our candidate is Nevena Petrusic. How will they fight discrimination? In addition to our obligation to propose on a proposal from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to the National Assembly who is a candidate and other than what any parliamentary group can do, the mandate of the Commissioner is to be elected on a five-year basis and can be selected twice. What can the Trustee of Equality do and in what way can he put his authority in the service to be gradually but persistently and with the awareness of how deeply instilled will for violence is in humans, so what can he do to make the level of violence, to be entertained by violence, to reduce the will to discrimination in every sector of our society? The Commissioner shall receive and consider complaints concerning infringements of the provisions of this law, give an opinion and recommendations, provide the applicant with information on his right and the possibility to initiate a judicial or other procedure of protection, or recommends a procedure of order, file a complaint under Article 43 of this Law for violation of the law, in his name and with the consent of the discriminatory person, ie, if the case before the court, in the same case, has not already been brought before him, submits infringements of the law under this Act, submits an annual report to the National Assembly, warns the public of the most typical and serious cases of discrimination. That's where I'm gonna stop. There's three other responsibilities. Why should the public be warned of the most typical and difficult cases of discrimination? Because the congratulatory world and the decent people are retreating to violence. You're not gonna have to deal with a fool. And that is the most wrong attitude that any of us who is prone to violence, whom Grandma taught what is done, what is not done, so the most wrong attitude is to withdraw from violence, I will not have to deal with it. If there are too many of us who have such an attitude, then the National Assembly is obliged to choose a person who, on behalf of ours, steps out in public and warns us of what amount of discrimination there is in our society and what kind of violence exists in our society. For the last minute, I will practically spend on an illustration for a sentence on the spirit of the campaign led by the election of candidate for the Commissioner for Equality, Nevena Petrusic. The words used in the campaign do not honor anyone, especially those who consider their field of work to be a reduction of discrimination and that their field of work is a struggle for modernised Serbia, in which there will be rule of law and in which every bully will be punished. I understand that passion and emotion and ignorance bear and that people make mistakes in qualifications about someone, such as candidate Nevena Petrusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39096	Time, Mrs. Comic. (Zoran Krasic, MP, from the place: give her a warning. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39097	The MPs insist on warning, I insist that I finish the sentence. I thank both the President and the People's Messenger. I hope that after the election, the work of Nevena Petrusic will benefit everyone, and those who criticized and us who support it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39098	Thank you. I ask the People's Messengers not to receive, but to those who have been thrown away, not to answer. Thank you. The word has an authorised representative of the LDP parliamentary group, Mrs Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39099	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality was waiting, given that the deadline for determining the identity of the Commissioner was 1 March 2010. In the same way, this law on the ban on discrimination, whose first model was handed over to the National Assembly back in 2001. In addition to the LDP waiting for this law to be passed, the law waited, among other things, for those exposed daily to various discrimination. And the Law on Prohibition of Discrimination awaited, among other things, Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It is obvious that Serbia had certain obligations, which according to its laws, and which according to its moral obligations towards its citizens, to put this law on the Parliament's agenda, to vote it and to pass it. Given how difficult it was for the law to reach the Assembly in the first place, how difficult it was to discuss the law, since the law was even in the course of the debate and withdrawn from the procedure at the request of certain religious communities, there was likely to be some resistance to this law, it is clear that there was no need for political consent, there was obviously no consensus on the need to pass this law. The LDP insisted that the law, as one of the conditions of the road map for Serbia's EU and white Schengen, should arrive in the assembly procedure as soon as possible and that it be used as soon as possible. However, when we look at the fact that the law was passed with 127 'for', with one heavy small majority, then it is reaffirmed that the previous finding that there was not a very strong political will to pass this law. After the law was passed, all that followed was a result of the lack and ambiguity of the political will to pass the law. Thus, the procedure of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality follows only that initial doubt, which was so clearly shown in everything that preceded the adoption of the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. Namely, when proposals for creditors arrived in the assembly, one of the candidates had all possible references to be elected. It is about Mr Goran Miletic, who had completed his law school, an internship of 10 years in human rights protection affairs, who had all the moral and professional qualities and qualifications and, in doing so, had the support of 211 NGOs, together with the Coalition against Discrimination, which additionally gave him the legitimacy to be elected by this assembly for the main and most important man to implement the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. However, it is obvious that there has suddenly been some resistance against this candidate, although the other two candidates have not even met those formal conditions for the candidacy that the law has provided. It is obvious that the ruling coalition was afraid of the so-called fourth branch of government, of the NGO sector, that it would eventually have too much interference in protecting all those whose rights have been kind of discriminated against. Then it was clear, when voting on whether to select one of the three candidates, however, decided to cancel the procedure and look for a more similar candidate – than the only one, of these three, who really had all the necessary qualities and conditions to be the trustee. We've got a new candidate. We would really not comment on the person or qualifications or the quality of this candidate. We really believe that the Trustee for the Protection of Confidence is such a significant institution for our citizens that we must not slip some personal demeanor or in some personal views of certain candidates, but rather the debate of the sea, first of all, to focus on whether certain candidates have their own possible conditions, all possible legitimacy for the Trustee. The LDP always insists whenever it can try to put the principles of departmentalisation and professionalisation first. So, if Mr Miletic, as far as his professional career is concerned, had all the qualities and if it did not belong to any political option – we still cannot understand why Mr Miletic did not meet the criteria, according to the ruling coalition?- I'm sorry. It is really inadmissible to have one element of any candidate's decision, which is objectivity, to neglect for someone's or any partial interest, because if objective criteria were respected, we wouldn't have to decide today about candidates. We could finish the job as prescribed by law, which is March 1st, 2010. Why is it necessary to particularly insist on the objectivity of the decision and on the proposals of the law, as well as on candidates, such as the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality? Only in this case can we expect certain systemic progress in terms of law enforcement and in terms of the independence and independence of the candidate to be elected. Because the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, in addition to being brought in, is a significant contribution to putting Serbia on the white Schengen list, it should also be implemented in the work. We are witnessing that immediately after the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination was passed, there were certain problems for this law to be implemented. I'd remind you of the "Peace of Pride" that hasn't been maintained since the state authorities were unable to implement this law. So, starting with the fact that the law, in addition to being passed, has to be implemented, I would also underline that the candidate who is elected must be an independent state body, and that it also decides independently within the limits of its powers. How do we expect a candidate who gets majority support to meet these expectations? How can we expect that the candidate proposed by DS, who has been fascinated by the quality of Mr Miletic, and yet has not given her support to the candidate, will indeed meet those expectations in the form of independent work in the state body, or that he will be independent in his decision? I think that whenever the Assembly decides on such important issues, which and how they affect the development of society, you will have to admit that the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination and that it is one of the fundamentals for the change of this society, which has indeed been largely devastated in the past, therefore, such laws, such decisions, such people who will have to implement this law and in particular, must be completely objectively chosen and fully independent and independent in their work. I insist on these two words – independence and independence, because these are the only words guaranteeing that there is a political will to implement the Law on Prohibition of Discrimination, that there is a consensus in society on this – that the system of values in Serbia is changed and improved. Therefore, we do not have any objections as to the candidate for the trustee, in the name and last name of Ms. Nevena Petrusic, but we have certain objections. First, the fact that it was not respected until when it was necessary to choose the Trustee, which was obviously not respected by the criteria provided for by the Law on the Selection of Trustees and simply passing the non-governmental sector, which was largely behind when Mr Miletic, i.e. apparently some criteria were set outside this Assembly, criteria that were not transparent, criteria that we had no insight into. So, if this whole procedure after the adoption of the Law on Prohibition of Discrimination flowed in this sloppy way, and the ultimate result raises questions, indeed, we have serious doubts as to how this law will continue to be implemented. For us to implement this law, we must also have the support of the coalition in power, and the support of the NGO sector, and the support of society. It is clear that the NGO will do its job as it has so far without this law. However, it is not clear how the coalition in power will change and educate this society, if in doing so, its own law on the ban on discrimination is discriminatory? Because what is it, if it is not discrimination, if some deadlines are not respected and if some criteria are not respected that are provided for in this law? It is clear to us in the LDP that the public, sooner or later, as will all those who are currently in power to understand, and to come up with the same thinking, that this law is of such importance to Serbia that it must not be played with. So let's take the first step, and the first step would be if after the adoption of this law, even if perhaps with a delay, that law itself did not violate and discriminate, as it has been done since April of the month, when the law was passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39100	Thank you. There's a word, based on article 101. Rules of Procedure, authorised representative of the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39101	Ladies and gentlemen, while respecting creativity in the description of the procedure, without intending to deny anyone the right to be creative, the election of candidates Goran Miletic was annulled. I quote part of the record from the session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs "For a proposal for Goran Miletic to be proposed for the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, one member voted, no one voted against, nine members were abstentioned, and five members did not come forward. The proposal was not accepted." Therefore, there is no cancellation in favour of the fact that the application procedure for the Commissioner for Equality is at stake. The second part also refers to my understanding of creativity in the performance, i.e. the neglect that the proposaler, or the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, has lost the criteria or criteria of objectivity when it comes to Neven Petrusic, and that is simply incorrect. That's what the data from her biography is about, in the material that was given along with her candidacy. So all the criteria required by the law, candidate Nevena Petrusic meets and objectivity is relative. And one or two sentences in that name. I like it when the NGO proposes candidates, I like it because the assumption is that in the NGO there are people, equipped with knowledge, skills and awareness of the general interest. I don't like it when this process isn't transparent, so I don't like to caricate a famous sentence – I'm not a member of any political party and I welcome everyone in the study, I'm from the NGO sector. So, if you're a member of a political party, then it's understood that you don't have the capacity to be objective or to have criteria, and if you're from the NGO sector to have it. I don't think it's true either, it's supposed to be the topic of discussion. Therefore, whoever wants to propose any public work must be open to questions and criticism from others. As I have a very low opinion on the transparency of decision-making in political parties, which in my political party knows all the bodies, forums, personalities and all the others, as I am sincerely struggling for reforms within political parties, so I also think that in Serbia there is a form of privatisation of the NGO sector, insufficient transparency, without the necessary reforms and for the non-governmental sector and for the political parties, and I think we need a partnership when it comes to it. Nevena Petrusic's election procedure for disqualification of the proposing's objectivity is unnecessary. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39102	We understood the point of the replica. Mrs. Judita Popovic thinks she was misread. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39103	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I think there is a clear clue in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs which has been the way in which this whole procedure has been going about proposing candidates, deciding on candidates, and so on. I think that procedure can be put into public insight and then we'll see how it all flowed. The important result of the whole story is that Mr Miletic did not make the parliamentary decision. So, the result is "silence," "zero," "nothing," whatever you want, can be said in a picturesque way and it's "disposed." I think it's enough to say about that, you also confirmed that when you voted on the Committee's 'one' member was 'yes', it was Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, and that the 'others' were 'abstained'. So, "no one" was "against," but no one, except Cedomir Jovanovic, did not support the candidate, the only candidate who met all the conditions. Once again, I underline, it wasn't at one meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it took a little longer, so it can't be said that it was so clear and obvious and transparent. Apparently another candidate was waiting, the other candidate was not meeting the requirements. When they saw that they couldn't do it that way, I'm talking about a coalition in power to solve that question, to place their man in the place of the trustee of the ban on discrimination, well, then simply there was a vote that ended the way it ended. Anyway, the result is that the man who had all the qualities, both moral and professional, as well as the internship, wasn't chosen, and we're talking about someone quite third today.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39104	Thank you. Now it's a little clearer, but I just want to say that there's a huge difference between canceling something and "unchosen," so at first you canceled, and in the end, the candidate was unchosen. It's okay. If that's still the basis, there's no conversation, it's legally exact. Mr. Mikovic Srdjan, as a member of the Constitutional Affairs Committee, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39105	Anyway, there are reasons to make things clear here. The fact is that on 19 February I was at the session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and actively participated in the work. The candidacy of Mr Miletic was then considered as a candidate for the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. I have to say that in his biography, which he made up, he gave the information that he graduated from the Faculty of Law in Belgrade in 1999, that he worked in the publishing company "Trick", his publishing company, gave this explanation, and that he worked only since 2000 at the humanitarian law fund in Belgrade. At the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I asked Mr Miletic – since which month in 2000 he started working at the Humanitarian Law Fund. There are many here in the hall who can testify, and for that there is a stenographic record, that Mr Miletic did not know at the Committee's session from which month he worked at the Humanitarian Law Fund. And I'd like to point out what's provided for in Article 28. The law prohibiting discrimination, as one of the conditions, is that the Commissioner may be elected by the person who has at least 10 years of experience in legal affairs in the field of protection of human rights. So, at the very session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr Miletic did not know whether he met the legal requirements or did not meet the legal requirements. Another point is that Mrs Gordana Cusic, who was also a candidate at the time, allegedly does not meet some legal requirements. There were no statements on this matter on the very Committee on Constitutional Affairs itself, but also on the candidate. It's for the truth. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39106	Thank you, Mr. Mikovic. Given that there is a whole other decision on the agenda, I hereby conclude this part of the debate. Does anyone else want a word from the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups? Mr. Markicevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39107	Dear Mr Vice President, honourable fellow MPs and respected citizens of Serbia, who, I believe, are watching this transfer, New Serbia's Parliament Club on the proposal to elect a trustee to protect equality, so none of the New Serbia's MPs had the intention to report, aware of the reality that the proposal that the ruling coalition, in this case DS, is going through safely, not wanting Professor Nevenki Petrusic in any way at the start to trip hands and legs, because of the importance of the work that she needs to deal with and perform with, so we didn't want to discuss, but given what kind of controversy has been going on here for the past half-hours, I am offered to say a few words. We in New Serbia think that the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality must have been elected by consensus, if indeed we are all for respect for human rights, or for the protection of equality, even with this human rights solution, so to speak, and between parties of the ruling coalition, parties of the opposition, professional public and NGOs. In this way, this debate from the last half hour resembles a party struggle, a political struggle where the two parties have their candidates and where, in advance, in some ways, already lowers the possible level of work of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. Is it possible that one candidate would do one way to protect Serbia's citizens' equality and the other in a different way, given the opposite of the views expressed here by LDP representatives and DS representatives? Is it possible that this proposal, i.e. this function, is the subject of party upgrades, and of party interests, and of political interest? As for New Serbia, our only political interest here is that this trustee works for neither the grandmother nor the uncles, that it doesn't happen as it happened a few days ago that we have a secret meeting of the Prime Minister with the '15 most honest, most honest and wealthy people in this country', with everything and the head of the union, and that this meeting be declared secret and that in this way there is discrimination against hundreds of thousands of businessmen in this country, not to say small, ordinary people! It is possible that some economic principles, a new economic policy, were agreed at the secret meeting. Aren't hundreds of thousands of Serbian citizens, businessmen, above all, small, medium, and perhaps large, discrimination because they didn't attend the meeting, and we don't have a report from that meeting to see what the principles of some new economic policy are agreed, what are taxes, VAT etc? So, I'm starting with the fact that a man, a Serbian citizen who is not economically free, is certainly not free. Now because of this discussion that was conducted in the last half hour, I'm asking a question, I won't doubt, so what exactly is this trustee for the protection of equality going to do? Do we, or her, give him the political coordinates in advance, given the level of discussion? There are obviously political, party interests here. I'm worried, although I don't know this lady, I admit that I'm not more familiar with her work so far, but nobody needs to be disavowed and convicted in advance until it's proven at work and that work. I think it's human and fair to say it, and I honestly mean it. Given this kind of discussion, is it now, of course, knowing that someone has to propose someone, well, for instance, it's someone from the ruling coalition, right now it's DS, but this is the way we discuss it in advance. Not us, but the National Assembly, which will adopt with 126 or 127 votes, perhaps I'm naive, I thought 250 people should choose that trustee to protect equality. Mrs. Comic, I am convinced that that is the way it should be, but it also means some process of candidacy and conversation, which means that Mrs. Petrusic is not watching what we are talking about here in a direct transmission, but that she should sit here with us and talk to the MPs. You will say of course – it was on the Constitutional Committee, it was discussed. You know, when I listen to Mrs. Judith Popovic, I don't know why we shouldn't define ourselves as Mr. Miletic. If that's important, and I think it's an extremely important function, now we're going to measure the day or month of his internship, whether he formally meets the conditions. And now you're going to convince me that Mr. Miletic, at all, didn't come to the vote here in the Assembly just for that. Well, it's not! It is not a reason, but because Mrs Petrusic is a DS candidate, which is legally and legitimately your right, because you have the majority and most within the ruling coalition as DS. I may be leaving a bit of a naive position and structure that such functions, such people and women must be candidates for the work they're going to do, to solve fates and minorities and groups, I don't know all of which minorities, both citizens and individuals. It doesn't need to be marked in advance by such a discussion here, where it stands behind hard party bars, trenches and almost shoot each other. Then why didn't we allow the vote to take place on Goran Miletic? Let him come here, man. I don't know much about his work, but I am very suspicious of this discussion about how the candidates are eliminated and how one candidate in the previous procedure has given up. And the man said it was the pressure! Right? Who was pushing him? So, if we have a political bickering here, a burning over various laws, political paths, directions, is this the kind of function we need? I think this is one of the most important functions in the country. Given the injustice suffered by Serbian citizens, individuals, in this country, I think the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality will have the most work to do in this country. It will be reported by hundreds of thousands of citizens. Of course, he's not just gonna solve discrimination against sex minorities, so we don't fool ourselves around here. It says in the Constitution that everyone has the right to work, and we see at the'secret meeting of the Prime Minister with the 15 richest people in this country', that some of them have ships of 100 meters, all of which are well and honestly earned, and some don't have the bread to eat, some of them are in folk kitchens. I think that is the basic principle of inequality, i.e. the postulate of inequality. We, as citizens of Serbia, do not have the same positions at the beginning. Some can't make money for bread, and some will have secret meetings with the Prime Minister! '"Well, I think the trustee of equality will first begin to solve such cases. You know, these citizens I'm talking about, they're not a minority, they're, unfortunately, the majority in this country, the poor majority. And pensioners who have under 11,000 pensions, and unemployed people, and fired people and all the people who are on the streets. When I am told the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, not reducing his responsibility, to say, competences and authority, to solve and the problems of sexual minorities, but as a member of New Serbia, as a man, I think he will first and foremost solve these layers of citizens I talk about, who do not have the bread to eat, who are threatened and who are not in the beginning equal. No, because some of the best students can't pay their tuition, and some can. Maybe they're not as smart as they are, but the dads are sitting in a secret meeting with the Prime Minister. And then where's the equality? I may not be a good interpreter of the authority and tasks of the future Commissioner, i.e., I'm surprised you didn't write here - the confidant. Mrs. Komic, I think you should have said that, not me as a member of the right national party, the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality! And please, Mr. Novakovic, make this right to be in the spirit of the European path that you are promoting here. So, let's all get a proposal here to write – a proposal for a choice of "The Commissioner" for the protection of equality, since it's obvious that one is the only candidate and that person is a woman. Do I need to tell you Europeans that this is where it should have been written – 'The proposal for a choice of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality? ''Here's another reason to doubt that behind these discussions we have heard in the past tens of minutes there are ordinary party and political interests of the parties fighting for their candidates. You know, the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, the Commissioner for Human Rights, the Commissioner for Free Information and the Accessibility of Information, he, by his very function, does not doubt the credibility and biography of these people and women who will be elected and who are already elected, by the very name of the function, already has one reputation for citizens. And when he accuses someone or draws attention to them for breaking, let's say, the Law on Discrimination, on the violation of human rights, I think most citizens will at least at that point believe him, that this man is independent, that he is not a confidant of one party, in this case DS or in other case LDP, but a citizen's trustee, who will represent the citizens in front of the state. All these violations of the Law on Human Rights, Equality, the fight against discrimination, well, that can be done by individuals, by parties, but, above all, I think, this applies to the state and institutions that violate human rights and do not respect equality. So, I apologize if someone didn't understand me very well that I spent these 10-12 minutes, I think you should answer those questions. Perhaps my proposal, which I want to make now, is in vain, as everything here the opposition has been proposing for months and years, to take this off the agenda, first of all because of this candidate, who I'm beginning to believe is a decent, honest and professional woman and she's going to do a great job. I suggest you repeat this procedure, to include, not 253 but 1,500 NGOs, if there are, all parties and the professional public, in a peaceful and cultural way, to come up with a human solution, so that we can all raise our hands here and vote, given the importance of the work that this woman, or man, is going to do, rather than be a matter of party bickering and political interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39108	Thank you. Of course, this isn't a party thing. This is a proposal for a decision of the Constitutional Affairs Committee. The word is Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39109	The Honored Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Law prohibiting discrimination against the procedure for selecting the Commissioners is such that the formal proposal to the Assembly is a Committee on Constitutional Affairs and that the Committee is referred to by parliamentary groups. When the chairman of the assembly, as chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, invited all parliamentary groups to run for office, only two parties responded to the call. Other parties either estimated that they had no candidate or for some reason did not want to participate in the procedure. What was our intention from the very beginning is to get to a candidate who won't polarize society. I am absolutely certain that if everyone now came out of the party trenches and this deep division between the government and the opposition, in order to be absolutely sure, with a calm conscience, they would be deeply convinced that Neven Petrusic is the best candidate to respond in the best sense to exactly what you also have as a need for equality trustee. At one point, the apparent polarisation occurred is due to the fact that the candidate who was proposed in the first round of the proposal did not get a majority. The law says that the Assembly Committee is referring to the proposal voted by more than 50% of the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. We can open a debate about why one candidate didn't get a majority, and why another candidate got the required majority, so he got into this procedure, but I don't think that would get us on the right track. What is important for us now is whether Nevena Petrusic, as a candidate who has received the majority support of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, is a candidate who will best build an institution of trust for equality. According to our deep conviction, Nevena Petrusic is exactly the candidate who will respect the law in the best possible way. So, her professional, working, volunteering, whatever biography you want, her traits as a man who advocated equality through his professional work and through his life, is the best confirmation that she really is the best candidate. The fact that she received and supported 50% of the evidence is that she is a candidate who can get the required majority. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39110	Thank you, we understand. Mrs Gordana Komic, based on the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39111	The replica is to ask for answers to the question why in the application proposal, it's not "the trustee," it's "the trustee." A brief introduction, before I answer, is my deep belief that ignorance is a natural human condition. It's not a shame, it's nothing, ignorance is natural. Learning is an effort, but it's a good effort. It can be fun and learning reduces ignorance. It's something that's interesting to find out and it's no shame not to know, but I have a problem when someone's proud of their ignorance. There's a lot of that in Serbia, and I really have a problem with it. I have no problem with ignorance, but to promote ignorance and be proud of it, well, I have a problem with that and I'm against it. Now there's an answer to the question why "the trustee," not "the trustee." Because that's what the law says. I will be the first, along with my dear colleague Miroslav Markic, to have amendments and additions to the Law on Prohibition of Discrimination, where it will stand: "religionary" or "trustor" or "trustee". You'll have my personal full support in that, and I hope to provide it in my MP's group as well. And what was going on, and don't blame me for interpreting your speech, I really don't mean anything by it, is your statement that it's probably a surprise that a right-wing party in Serbia comes up with such a proposal. I don't. It is probably many, but many of whom I have worked with for years and in the Women's Equality Movement and in all kinds of actions that I want to change models for some in society, I'm considered to be someone who considers none of the parliamentary parties, therefore none of the parliamentary parties are advocates of discrimination. And I will repeat that as many times as it takes, and I know how much difficulty I face when other social actors try to talk to all parliamentary parties about dialogue, because I claim and know that neither in the programme nor in the idea, either party advocates discrimination. Friends who are close to me, whether they're party or they're from an environment that deals with the fight against all forms of discrimination, against inequality, give me the same stereotype that we've shared, that you believe that because you're from a party that calls yourself a right that you can't suggest that there's a female interest. I think this is a good start to work together to make all occupations a female. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39112	Thank you. Mr. Miroslav Markicevic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39113	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I don't know who to replicate to right now. It is equality, but two women spoke at the same time. Do I have the right to two replicas or just one? Okay, since Mrs. Kolundzija is out, there's Mrs. Comic. Most of what she said can be accepted, only to be more precise – who doesn't know, who's proud of what she doesn't know. She'd have to say more precisely who she meant. Mrs. Komic, I can inform you, when this law was passed, the name of the law, was the amendment to the "reliance". Then why did you refuse that amendment? Now look what I'm talking about. You create on purpose, as exclusive Europeans, you are the only one from the European path of the Social Democrats and the Left, and the right party cannot be European. Now, that's because of your perception that you're placing in the media these days. That's why I'm telling you. So, I don't mind that, and otherwise, if you were very well-intentioned, 90% is, here, I'm giving you credit for that, when you were saying the only parliamentary party, maybe you could go over your mouth, here, I'm giving you a chance for a replica, that the only parliamentary party that has more than 30% less represented sex is New Serbia, with pride. Come on, get it over your mouth, and take another step towards a national right-wing democratic party like New Serbia! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39114	Thank you, Mr Markicevic, deputy president of the parliamentary group, the only parliamentary party that has more than 30% less represented sex. I hope Mrs. Comić will be brief, so if we could finish this cycle of replicas, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39115	Thank you. The only New Serbia parliamentary party and the G17 parliamentary party also met a 30% quota. I have no problem in saying that New Serbia's Parliament Group has 30% of women in its composition and that it is 33% of women, I am glad that this percentage is above 30%, and I am glad that because of the atmosphere in which we are having discussions, because I think that through dialogue, it is through debate, as much as we differ on many issues, the only way to really show that we really meant when we passed the Law on Discrimination and that this is the only way to prove that our decision to show our trust to the candidate Neveni Petrusic has the basis in our knowledge and in the criteria, those that are right for her choice. The subject of discrimination, in this case, we are leading the replicas of only one social group, therefore, around women in Serbia, about whether you can interest in the Serbian language and number of women, as the Serbian language requires, we are talking about who is all the subject of discrimination and my respected colleague Markicevic has expanded in relation to the list of individual discriminations that we have stated in the law. But I would like to have such detailed discussions not only about the current debate, namely the election of Nevena Petrusic for the Commissioner for Equality, but also on the committees and what we MPs agree to be the place where the debate will be held, because only in such discussions can the people we exist, who sent us here to do their jobs, to see what the picture of Serbia's future, what our plan for Serbia is for a year, in two years, in five years, in ten years. We say – we propose Nevena Petrusic, our plan is to see how much discrimination is reduced within a year in her report. Who succeeded, thanks to all the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to avoid being the target of discrimination? What good did Neven Petrusic do? And, if it is already said, what is the political interest of the DS, when it comes to this law, it is a political interest – to do its job and to reduce the level of discrimination, such as our political interest to apply the provisions of the law relating to the resolution of the Commissioner for Equality, unless there is a result. If the people who look at us see that we know how to conduct a dialogue, not a monologue, then those who think they have the right to behave rudely... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... Stop acting like one. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39116	Thank you. Of course, it is the interest of not only political parties, but also the interest of all citizens of Serbia. This concludes the circle of replicas. There's no reason. You've all been in here on the right foot. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, were submitted by the MEP Group ZES, the LDP Parliamentary Group and the SRS Parliamentary Group. The word is Mrs. Jelena Trivan.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39117	Since I, Mrs Judita Popovic, mentioned the fact that this law in 2001 began to prepare, however, did not enter the assembly debate immediately, even then working on the law, this is probably the law for which I feel the greatest satisfaction that at the end of the decade came to the assembly debate, which was adopted. Of course, I am not pleased with the great controversy surrounding this law, the unnecessary controversy and unnecessary disputes. I would love to see the integrity of this assembly, but also because of the power of this law, that the story of the trustee should flow into a principled debate, not a street dispute. I think the Commissioner has a great task, not as big as Gordana Komic defined it, because I fear that we must not give the trustee a heavy burden on his back that he can neither by law nor by practical experience to resolve. It will not be a fact that as of this month, we will have the Trustee to resolve that we no longer have discrimination in Serbia. That's why we all have to try our own dictionaries and our own language and our own behavior, and above all with respect to the law, but the fact that we have the Trustee, hopefully, will affect that next year we have a number of processed cases of discrimination, because so far discrimination has been followed mainly by silence and silence. Whether you look at television shows that constantly promote violence against women and children every week, whether you watch political language, television shows of easy content, you will see that there is a culture of acceptance and support of discrimination here. That's why in front of every trustee, whoever it is, the great and difficult task, is primarily to speak courageously and openly about all kinds of discrimination and to fight with these kinds of discrimination and when there is no public support for it. I'm afraid that in the fight against discrimination we rarely have public support when it comes to some minorities, religious groups, political differences. This is not yet a society that is sensitive and ready to jump into the protection of those who are discriminated against. What's encouraging is that at least we've come to a point where people on a national basis and on a religious basis don't publicly get to the public, stamp and discriminate, but there are some kinds of discrimination that people don't realize are discrimination. I think this is an opportunity, and that is why I have taken the floor, that this Parliament is at least something personal to the European Parliament and to open up a big question, and that is the question that the European Parliament is discussing today, these are new forms of discrimination, social discrimination, which are so much more difficult and more serious because the whole world has been hit by the economic crisis. This law and the Commissioner will have to deal in the coming years not with what we are used to – that this law has been passed because of minorities, religious minorities or homosexuals, it has been brought to every individual citizen who, unfortunately, is not aware that he is discriminated against and has the right to protection. At this point, there are serious violations of human rights, above all, social rights, which, as I said, induces poverty and economic crisis, when it comes to working relations, layoffs without legal basis, abolishing maternity leave, non-payment of health benefits, non-payment of earnings, etc., and that citizens are not aware at all, but in slave silence and are not trying to seek state aid. I am pleased that Gordana Komic has read all the grounds for discrimination, so she is one and old. There is one serious, at this point, climate discrimination of older people, who are unconscious, often, in our own language, we blame for the burden on the budget, for the fact that there are, that most of the money we give to pensioners, which is true, but it is also true (shows my colleague) that we are like every European society – old and that we have to seriously take care to see where the line of criticism that enters into discrimination or hate speech towards the old, which, as a matter of fact, makes their position even harder I think the time has come, and fortunately it has come, that after the 1990s we are talking about the types of discrimination that are known in the whole civilized world, and not those non-civilization liquids that we only had in the 1990s. The Commissioner will find a big job to realize that the victim of discrimination can be everyone and that at this point the victims of discrimination are almost invisible, that they are old, women, people in the rural area who have no rights to anything, not even to profit and pension, and that they will have to start fighting by having our support and serious support of the media to hear the voice of that trustee, if Neven Petrusic is elected, and that, apart from the scandal, in the media, he pays attention to and the constant problems that an ordinary citizen has, and about which she from tomorrow or when we choose her, he must start to take care of. I really agree, in order for her to be able to perform her function, she must also have a permanent dialogue with NGOs and that it's great that, we didn't have in the first round, as the ruling majority or as my party, we can suggest someone behind whom such a large number of NGOs stood. I want to underline another dimension of the quality of Nevena Petrusic, which no one has spoken of. It's about the fact that we have for the first time a representative of an independent institution or a woman's body. All independent institutions at this point are led by men and we have someone who's from the inside. It sounds seemingly irrelevant, but imagine how hard it is to deal with human rights in the interior, in small areas and especially in those environments where there is a culture of violations of these human rights. Nevena Petrusic has dealt with violations of women's rights, which still face applause and approval in Serbia, every violation of women's rights, even violence, that is what the most watched TV shows prove to you what I'm talking about. Therefore, it showed incredible courage when it began to clash with windmills in 1993, to fight for human rights and women's rights in Serbia affected by the war. She has both practical and theoretical experience. She's a woman who's managed to survive for 15 years and have her voice heard. In order for the voice and other dissuaded to be heard, with her and her position, we must not only today in the parliamentary debate, but also tomorrow, give her constant support and give her the opportunity to talk about her work and the problems she has constantly. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39118	Thank you, Mrs. Trivan. Mr. Kenan Hajdarevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39119	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the LDP waited two years for the vote on the Law on Discrimination and in March of last year we decided to affect the law and bring it to this Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This is how we showed our commitment to European values and our commitment to this European path of Serbia to the EU. It has clearly become clear that the government has no power to apply this law to a country where we are all discriminated against in full capacity. The proof of my claim is inconclusive in the treatment of this law and the provisions of the laws that speak of selecting the Commissioner for Equality. In February of the month, LDP insisted on departisation and professionalisation, proposed as Commissioner Goran Miletic, an expert who participated in the draft law on discrimination, a man with ten years of experience in the fight against discrimination, in the fight to preserve human rights. We proposed to the person i.e. It was supported by 220 associations and NGOs, those NGOs that have the highest integrity to talk about both human rights and the ban on discrimination. When the ruling majority faced this fact, that a man who did not go under her political, party dress could be elected Commissioner, they stood behind a trustee candidate, a man who served in Milosevic's Information Ministry in the 1990s, a man who participated in the publication of a book that speaks of a world conspiracy against Serbia. The failure to vote on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr Goran Miletic, as a trustee candidate, has enabled the domestic coalition, or DS, to propose to candidate Neven Petrusic, whom we are talking about today. The LDP does not want to enter the professional qualities of the proposed candidate, but we must point out that this is the way of proposing and this is the way the election shows and points to the party character of the proposed candidate. Because the proposed candidate stands for 150 NGOs, with whom the proposed candidate should co-operate in the next five-year term, 150 NGOs who have shown their integrity over the past 10-20 years in the fight against the ban on discrimination and in the fight to preserve human rights. I will say just one example of Mr. Sasa Jankovic, the Ombudsman, who, when he was first proposed for the ombudsman's post and against whom the NGOs were against, did not accept this candidacy, in words, that he did not want to be ombudsman if they were against it by NGOs. His gesture changed the attitude of NGOs to him and today he is doing a great job along with these NGOs. Exactly the meaning of all the laws, and especially the Law on Discrimination, should be that candidate we should declare yes, which is that trustee of equality. What LDP is interested in when we talk about the proposed candidate, is what this candidate will do to some other forms of discrimination that burdens our society. These are forms of discrimination that require courage. These are discriminations both minority and sexual, these are all those discriminations that create such an atmosphere in society today, where hate speech is a perfectly normal thing, because media houses have to decide for themselves who and how they can host on their televisions and their shows. For LDP, the government's attitude towards independent institutions is also disputed. The power adopts the law, then delays the appointment of candidates for these independent institutions, so when candidates for independent institutions are eventually elected for years, conditions for the normal functioning of these independent institutions are not created and conditions for the normal functioning of these institutions are created after public pressure. The evidence is both the Auditory Institution and the Trustee of Information, as well as the Protector of Citizens. We in the LDP think and fear that such a relationship will not be with both the Law on Discrimination and the Commissioner we should choose. What we're interested in is how will the proposed candidate, in such a relationship of strength, manage? What LDP wants to do is fundamentally change Serbia, but we do not want to do it in such a way that, now that we have visas, we will all go where we live better, but in such a way that we will promote those European values and Europe here in Serbia. One of the first steps towards this is the departisation and depolitisation of our lives. When Mrs. Komic spoke about social models and the need to change these social models, I would like to point out that LDP has shown in the past two years that social models are changing. We have shown that we are not an opposition in the sense of words that exists in the minds of most citizens, that we are only an opposition when the government proposes something - that we only vote against. That we are the opposition, that what other opposition parties propose - we vote in favour. We are opposition to the system of values, and as an opposition party in the Serbian Parliament, we behave accordingly. That's how we'll behave in the next period. Our criticism of the election of the Commissioner for Discrimination is more criticism of the way the choice of the Trustees took place, because for the first time our candidate for the Trustee - his candidacy was rejected, he was voted against, and the second time he did not even enter the procedure. And that's the point we want to talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39120	Thank you, Mr. Hajdarevich. The word is Mr. Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39121	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that from this place in the National Assembly we should say that there exists in society and the case and the occurrence of unwarranted making of differences and unequal treatment of people of different races, skin colors, different treatment of those who have different citizenship, nationality, ethnic origin. Unjustified differences are made between people who use different languages, who have different religious and political beliefs. There are differences, unwarranted, according to gender, gender identity, sexual orientation, property, according to birth, according to genetic characteristics, according to health status, disability, marital and family status, condemnation, age, according to appearance, according to membership in political trade unions and other real, or assumed personal properties. That is exactly what we need to realize that there is and that was the reason and the parliamentary group to which I belong, not only to talk about the need to adopt a law on the prohibition of discrimination, but to be the main participant in the process of preparing the vote of the Law on the prohibition of discrimination. And it is this law on the prohibition of discrimination that provides for what the Trustee in the protection of equality should do. The Commissioner for the Protection of Equality receives and discusses complaints about violations of the law; he makes opinions and recommendations in concrete cases; he makes the measures in accordance with the law; he provides the complainant with all the necessary information on his right and the possibility of protection; he submits complaints; he submits a report to the National Assembly on the situation in the field of protection of equality; he warns not only the Assembly but also the public of the most typical and difficult cases of discrimination; he monitors the implementation of laws and other regulations; he initiates the adoption and amendment of regulations to implement and improve protection against discrimination; he establishes and maintains co-operation with certain bodies competent to exercise equality and protect human rights and recommends to public authorities and other persons the measures to achieve equality. And, precisely because all of this is foreseen as the trustee's jurisdiction, I believe Mrs Nevena Petrusic's proposal to be the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality is a good proposal. Dr. Petrusic has so far highlighted herself in the practice of litigation and non-partisan procedural law, the rights of women, children and other marginalised social groups, the legal aspects of family relations, domestic violence, mediation and other alternative methods of conflict resolution. She wrote on her own or with other authors 13 monographs, textbooks, manuals and practices, over a hundred papers from various areas of civil procedure civil, family, environmental and labour rights. She has been involved in many projects, developing a model of legal protection against domestic violence, creating a model for the protection of children's rights in family relations, giving de jure expertise in implementing the Convention on the Elimination of All types of violence against women. She participated in an expert group that prepared a draft national strategy to improve women's positions and achieve gender equality. She was engaged in an expert group to prepare a strategy against domestic violence and violence against women. It stands out in the area of gender equality and consumer protection. She participated in the development of the Strategy for Development of Free Legal Assistance in Serbia. She's a member of the task force to prepare the Social Protection Draft. The president is a working group preparing the draft law on mediation and is vice-president of the Council for Gender Equality of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. She was the first president of the Committee on Gender Equality and Equal Opportunities of the City of Nis. That's all, the fact that she gave over 150 public lectures in over 20 Serbian cities and all the work in a professional job and volunteering, is confirmation that we've reached a good candidate. By the way, as the best graduate law school student in her generation, she won the Nisha "14th October" award and won the Nish University Charter. She is the winner of the Faculty of Law of Nis University in 1995 and the National Charter of the City of Nis in 2008, the awards of the organization "For European Security and Co-operation" personality for 2009, precisely to contribute to the promotion of gender equality and the development of clinical education of law students and other awards and recognitions. When we look at her biography in part, I think we have enough reason to define ourselves and support candidate Dr Neven Petrusic to be elected by the National Assembly for the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. What I particularly appreciate is that Dr. Nevena Petrusic was born in Dimitrovgrad, to speak both Russian and English and Bulgarian, as the language of her environment in which she grew up. In any case, I think it's one thing when we defend the rights of vulnerable people from Belgrade to TV cameras, and it's another thing when we're ready to walk Serbia and protect every vulnerable group of people and every single person who's a victim of discrimination. That is why, because I am firmly convinced that our candidate, Dr Nevena Petrusic, is a good candidate for the Trustee for the Protection of Equality and that he will succeed in doing this job, I invite you, dear colleagues and colleagues, to support Dr Neven Petrusic in the voting day and to elect her as Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39122	Thank you, Mr. Mikovic. The word has a folk MP, Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39123	Well, well, it's hard for me to manage after Mikovic. Nevena Petrusic, born Petrovic is my colleague, Mr. Mikovicu. That's a nice story you've said. We're not expected to talk about this university career right now, the law school dean. That would be illusory. The man who mastered, doctored and that was on the most difficult case we ever had in law school, civil trial. The bride was a brilliant student. Good man. That's probably why it's the dean. This is certainly a political issue, and I will start from that matrix that Mrs. Komic made at the beginning of her presentation, because she said there are three parts: the first part concerning the candidate, the second part of the law and the third part, as you say, the climate for elections, proposals, etc. etc. Let's start with the climate. If someone did an internship at the humanitarian law fund, at Natasa Kandic and Vojin Dimitrijevic, I won't even talk. It's no job internship! Mrs. Komic, I fully support you for your finding that there is great privatisation in the NGO sector, in every respect of privatisation. Some programs have been competing with some international organisations since 2002, and some funds have been received by the government of the Republic of Serbia. I told you about that Buka Kovacevic from Kragujevac, who had a few dozen NGOs within his family. This one's not like that, the humanitarian law fund. In my opinion, there is no criterion – I am encouraged by a proposal of 92 NGOs and ten-fifth individuals in some functions, such as no criteria for me, as Kenan said just before, that someone allegedly the opponent, in an attempt, supported 220 NGOs, and against this candidate of yours is 150 NGOs. I know when I was sued by an NGO, I said, let's see the address, where, what is it, they didn't sue me but they wrote in the paper some criminal charges, they said, let me see in that address if they're there, to see what the problem is. I go there and I kiss the door. I ask the neighborhood, they say – they don't come here for months, and on the site they're so active that it's terrible. So that non-governmental organization criterion with us from the SRS doesn't play any role, if anyone thinks they can do it plus, they're wrong. In the beginning to resolve that dilemma. It's our judgment of value. I do not dispute that some others worship NGOs, especially when it comes to an election campaign, because they support an option, some attack, etc. But it's not today's theme. Given that the debate has been initiated and on this subject, on these issues, I hope you don't mind commenting on that as well. Now, I must say, I like one attitude, Mrs. Comic, which you said. Here, I don't know what's making me do this day, I'm just praising you for something. Something's dangerous. No, no, well, will it be good, I don't know, but here, I have to, you know what I'm praising you for? Because I've been saying it for years. I'm against this kind of animosity and hatred for people who are politically defined. This is where one practice was created, one opinion in public opinion – if a man from a political party it's an apriorio something bad, if he's from an NGO it's very good. Well, what kind of experts, experts, moralists, etc., we used to have 500 and some parties, we now have no idea, somewhere, 30, if he couldn't find an option for his own political views, something's wrong. I'm against it if someone is a member, a member of some political party that he absolutely does not meet the requirements. Why are we devalued political parties? Generally, all political parties should fight for their status in this fight against these indirect influences on politics, such as tycoon, organised crime, spies, etc., but this is another topic. Just because someone comes from another sector, it's like a big expert, and that's a problem for me, I have to tell you. Let me just start the topic. The president of the National Bank Council is also an adviser to the Prime Minister. I think it's incompatible with each other. I'm absolutely sure it's incompatible. You know, in all our regulations, which we've brought here, when it comes to selecting an individual to be a member of a collegiate body, we've always shown a great degree of pain to university professors and we've said there's no conflict of interest. He can be a judge of the Constitutional Court and he can deal with the cathedral, he can do lectures, etc. And we were just making some kind of, if I may say, exception and pain. However, I have to ask a question – when a man achieves his maximum in his professional career, it is likely to be the Dean of Law that it is the most something that a university professor can achieve, what is driving him to do some other jobs that are in terms and from the point of view of academic positions lower in the social structure? This trustee, that's a few steps below the level and importance and reputation of the law school dean. She's the newlyweds of the Faculty of Law in Nis, which now celebrates 50 years of existence in May. Since she's watching this show and she knows all this since we talked, don't worry, I invite her to organize that 50-year-old prom because it's a big jubilee for Nis and it's one of the best colleges. You from Belgrade can jump as much as you want, the nick is better. You Sarajevo guys, what do I do to you? This is just to explain to you what our political views are, that we have nothing against Nevena, why talk about how she mastered, doctored. Well, she was a good student, and if her colleagues chose her as a dean, you probably helped her with DS, maybe she was a member, and maybe she wasn't, it doesn't matter, but we're not authorized to interpret that kind of expertise. How does a student evaluate a professor? He can't! It meets that condition of expertise. It meets the condition of a job internship. I'm sure he's meeting that third condition. I know she's been on the SOS phone for a long time, 1993, etc. And I know that she was with Vodnelic in some combinations, and I objected to her – get away from Vodenilić! I had a right to tell my colleague what I thought about it. This place is all for some political reasons. I really don't see why someone would leave the department to deal with this, and there's still a service to be formed. Now I have to remind you, Mrs. Comic, that second part of your exposure, the law, jurisdiction, etc. I also have to remind you that absolutely unnecessary law. He is in some calendar of EU accession, not disputed. It's on that list. That's where you signed up for "plus." It's a done deal. And that's when I told you, making laws where there's a ban on discrimination, they, from Brussels, will take advantage of and say, well, we can put a plus, now Serbia is done with discrimination, until this law is passed it was all discrimination. Just to draw your attention, we have the Protector of Citizens and we have the Commissioner for Public Information as a constitutional category. This one's a legal category. Remember when there was a speech when the Civil Protection Act was passed, then it seemed to be a joke, but I took it seriously, it's cruel to talk to the Ombudsman, so to the public defender, I asked it to be the 'national tribunal', the one who fights for human rights. I'm sorry, please, a ban on discrimination is a subjugation of human rights of the Anti-discrimination Act, Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, it's like a letter and a head of the same bill. I think this capillaries and the creation of institutions and organs, which, as they say, have no teeth, can only scream, warn, use the media a little bit, make noises, draw attention, etc. But there's no efficiency, because it depends on someone else. We just had a chance to hear a story about violence, and between violence and violence, there's only a difference in legality, the instruments are the same. When the police beat her, she beats the law, when she beats the fan, he doesn't beat the law. It's just a difference, but it's beating. I remind you only a little of violence and force, that these are also two different sides of the same bill. Of course, I plead order. I'm against violence. I'm against any discrimination. Please, if we here in the National Assembly adopt a law on the budget, and we adopt amendments and amendments to the PIO law, and we say, in addition to the fact that pension coordination was not carried out in 2009, there will be no pensions to be brought into line in 2010, is that kind of violence and discrimination against citizens? Think about it. Basically, it is, because one population, because of years and because of pensioner status, has been moved aside. The Assembly said more – we do not respect the law. What are we going to respect? We'll respect something we've changed. So, just a form of legality and legitimacy, which springs from here, is a cover – so it's not discrimination, but it's fundamental discrimination. Yes, it is. The highest form of political discrimination is in this room right here! I have submitted a very nice amendment – 126 will not adopt it. Why? Because it comes from the opposition. (Srdjan Milivojevic, a Messenger of the people, from the place, said, "It is not." Well, that's right, it is. What are you covering this kind of discrimination with? Rules of Procedure! Yesterday, one of your guys was talking about that 126, so a million and so on. And Micun said a few months ago, "Democracy, that is the majority," and the end of the story. Although, yes, but only in one part of the concept of democracy. Why am I telling you this? Be careful, there is no measuring can here, that this is now measured very precisely, very clearly, etc. Furthermore, is there discrimination about what is guaranteed to people, it is health care? Well, there is! Someone's paying for drugs, someone's not paying for drugs. I told you yesterday - get the diabetics back to that list where the drugs don't pay, get them back immediately! It's discrimination. That, if someone has fulfilled the legal requirements to enjoy a right, that already comes to the question of respect for the law. But we here have fundamental discrimination, which goes from this room. That's what to say. Of course, there is no need to exaggerate what we can declare discrimination – there is no need to exaggerate. The next thing I think is important, you see, this system, this methodology, this procedure, how to choose, if I may say so, state officials, and when this election procedure is inserted, if I may say so, from initiative to choice decision, to being in the National Assembly, there are big problems. This is an extremely bad solution that the parliamentary group is the first proposing, and that the motion for a decision, here, in this case, is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. We have a similar situation when it comes to education regulations, financial, etc. The question of politicization is inevitably raised. I think that the procedure that was prescribed, not only in this law, but in others, is bad. He can't get us out of one water called politicization and how to get to 126. Maybe it's not in this case, but that's the picture, it's absolutely the picture, you know. Kenan just said something, maybe the man's right. Maybe he's right. So, these policies could not be avoided, but again I am opening the question – do we need them all to be non-party personalities? Do we need it? Is that how political parties are devalued? Who's in the political party? The parties probably have some who understand each other in some areas. I guess it's not just usable guys whose political function or assumed political function is guaranteed by some material well-being. I guess people join political parties voluntarily, give up actions of their freedom, subscribe to programmes and statutes that accept and represent. It's something normal and expected. That's why you can't get out of the field of politics and politics, and when candidates are proposed, you don't need to prove that someone isn't a member of a political party or some NGO. It's just a picture, because nobody's going to believe you. Now I'm going to take an example, because on TV it's spinning, now it might not have anything to do with this, but as a comparison it can use. They used to say that Jacques Cousteau was a great fan, protector of wild animals, etc. When he died, some archive was opened afterwards, so he said, "He wounded animals to make films to save, you know." So everything can turn around and everything can be true, absolutely anything can be true. It doesn't have to be real, it can be true in some people's heads. Why? Because today's world is impossible without that kind of propaganda and advertising, which basically has manipulation. So we can have a man's perception that he's a great fighter against something -- in fact, he's secretly representing something. Of course, this doesn't apply to Neven. We can't change that picture. We cannot change, as no one can change the picture – that tycoons have a great influence. We're talking about when, a few days ago, there's proof. Ten tycoon families have gathered with Cvetkovic -- the union president has promised -- he will not strike, the government has promised "to cut taxes", they say, we will not draw capital, we will work there. All Dacic had to do was surround himself and drive to CZ, he wouldn't do anything wrong, a lot of things would work out. Many things would be resolved, or I tell you that, you'll smile, and after a few months you'll say, well, it wasn't a big deal, there was some reason he said. We are in principle against this law. I don't want to repeat the debate about this law. That law is over. I don't argue that the law obliges us to understand each other. The law has been passed and every law voted in the National Assembly produces legal facts – binding everything. We who are in the National Assembly may sometimes express doubts, criticism, opinions about something, but it does not give us the right to disobey the law, to understand each other. From a bad law, a bad solution can't make anything good and good. Come on, remember, when this decision had to be on the agenda, the time had passed, or should it have been by 1 January 2010, right? (Srdjan Milivojevic, MP, from the post: It was due in March 2010) Martha? Well, if that's March it's a little over the top, but, well, at the very least. I know it's January 1st, but, well, at the very least, it doesn't matter. Watch out, there's a serious state organization breaking down, and there are some, I have to say, para-state institutions, however many of you represent them as state-owned. Parastate institutions are being created, the nominal, effective government is being moved from state authorities, which can apply this to something that needs to be played by the state government – that is the biggest problem. You've got decommissioned ministries. The other day there was this lady who was the Minister of Telecommunications. She doesn't even have a telecommunications inspector with her at the Ministry anymore. I don't know if the Ministry has 10 people. It went to the side, to some para-state organization, and you can't even get a report on it. Then let's not be surprised what chaos is, which you don't know who's in charge. Whoever's in charge says, "I'm not in charge of that part." That part is in charge of this part. The third part is in charge of this part. Where to organize a man and how to concentrate? How do you solve the problem? Everyone runs away from the problem, he says -- it's not in my jurisdiction, go to that ministry. He goes there, they say -- it's not in my jurisdiction, but go to the agency. Well, it's not an agency, it's a tax office, so it's not here, well, it's not there! That's how the state can't function. Here we have a quasi-state organ without teeth, which is going to write beautiful letters, to start some proceedings, and then ask the most important question: and what are all the laws where we have imposed sanctions on everything that is a violation of the equality and equality of citizens? What's the criminal code for? Why do some other rules that impose sanctions on all those who abuse their rights and some of their powers and violate human rights violate human rights or do something that is an act of discrimination? Is it possible that the Commissioner should warn the public prosecutor what to do? It's not working, it's absolutely not working! There is no protection that is necessary for citizens. We are an opposition party. We have no obligation to vote on proposals proposed by the ruling majority. Everybody knows that, and the promoters know that. You don't need to ask us to support your proposal and vote. I've avoided talking to a person as little as possible, because there's really nothing to say about the proposed candidate. Let's have a little fun, Mrs. Comic, remember the time we had the acting president's duty. And the "executor" of duty? Okay. We had everything and everything, so be careful about what Mikovic said Nevena knew. Micovic, Nevena knows the Serbian language, you just forgot to say it!
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39124	Thank you. The word is Mrs Gordana Komic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39125	With the gratitude of fellow Krasic, the replica, or clarification, through dialogue, about the legal and legitimate position he has that this law is unnecessary. My point is that the law is necessary, necessary. And the reason is that people can't, they won't, they don't know, treat each other without discrimination. And while you're saying that, without regulation, where you're going to list all forms of discrimination, people aren't going to stop discriminating someone else on their own just because it's different by gender, gender, age, by property, they're not going to stop discriminating you by public authority, regardless of whether I'm someone who belongs to the currently ruling majority and you're going to be the opposition, which I hope, clearly in Serbia, will establish as a process that's normal to change. You have one sentence that we listen to here, which is that we can threaten one another to lose the election. That's not normal. Losing and winning elections is a natural thing, but I can't put it into the law, because it already exists in the electoral law, in the number of political parties, in the rules, etc. We know that, we just need to learn how to change our attitudes toward each other because we have different political views. Why do you need that list, that map, that list of discrimination? Because regulation about it is the only way to tell people – that these things have no name so far, that there is no regulation that says what discrimination is, does not mean that it does not exist in reality. Our task is, and there's a part of your exposure that I don't deeply agree with, that we change what we see is wrong in society, whether it's a name or not. I deeply believe that people can change, that the picture can change on both political parties, both Serbia and parliament, and reduce discrimination. The only topic is what to change and how to change, and that can change, is that I believe deeply. And the reason why I think the law is needed at this stage is just to make a clear distinction between what society is about and what isn't when someone discriminates. From the example you set when it comes to a force enforcement officer, that example has nothing to do with discrimination. There is, if someone determines and sues Neveni Petrusic that a police officer has discriminated against someone by applying force, that he has applied force as a form of public authority, conditionally speaking and broadly, just because someone is different, on any basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39126	Thank you. You will receive your word, but Mrs Judita Popovic has applied earlier.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39127	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting in accordance with Article 101. Rules of Procedure. Also, I support that view by Mrs Gordana Comic that this law is necessary. She needs it for all those reasons she listed. However, I would particularly point out another fact, that this law had to be passed and that the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination was passed, primarily thanks to the LDP, which voted in favour of the law in the day of the vote and when the law was supported by 127 MPs in this assembly. So the law passed with a close majority, thanks to the LDP. If that law hadn't been passed then, if we didn't have a law on banning discrimination, we'd still be traveling from visas today. So Serbia's citizens would certainly not make it to the white Schengen list. That's what I mentioned when I spoke as an authorised representative of the LDP on the Trustee today. At that time, I also said that one of the conditions, one of the preconditions for the white Schengen list, was that Serbia would adopt a law prohibiting discrimination. So, in addition to all the reasons that are stated and behind which we are absolutely standing, the LDP has supported, among other things, the law, and for the reason that Serbia's citizens can finally travel as citizens of the world and that traveling around the world can learn something from it all, and that what is good in that world brings back to Serbia, that Serbia continues to dwell and become a more civilized, more cultural and better place to live. For this reason, the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination and how it was necessary to pass.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39128	Thank you, Mrs. Popovic. The word is Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39129	Mr. Novakovic, let me explain some things. I hope Mrs. Comic understands what's going on. It's very simple. Here, let me explain that to you. Respect for human rights and prohibitions of discrimination and guarantees of equality and equality of all citizens are constitutional categories. A human right can be regulated by law, but only in the part of the way in which that right is exercised, if the Constitution has given the order to do so or if there is an assessment that it is necessary to regulate the law, the way human rights are exercised. We are in the congregation about almost all regulations, except for those technical ones, in that diapazon. Now understand one thing, all the regulations that we make, the criminal rules governing family, child and parent relations, health regulations, traffic regulations, all possible regulations within themselves must contain provisions that prohibit discrimination and violation of this kind of prohibition of discrimination, have the rule of sanctions, whether in material law, whether in criminal law. And there's nothing else to do. Who's got to do that? Prosecutors, police, inspection authorities, citizens to report, etc. That's how it's been working for hundreds of years? For hundreds of years, that's how it works. Here it was necessary when you passed that law thanks to the votes of the LDP, on which the white Schengen came, that the last one to come out would be unnecessary! Now you've created an institution that doesn't have teeth, it doesn't even have braces. No teeth, no prosthetics. You disrespected the attorney general, the police, the courts, the inspection bodies, everything possible, because now you need them to remind the Commissioner what they need to do. That's one thing. So, if you had a need to regulate this, why didn't you put this in the jurisdiction of the Guardian of Citizens? He is not the patron of the citizens of the administrative inspection, as you have defined him by the Law on the Protector of Citizens. And he deals with the question of human rights. In that sense, this law is absolutely unnecessary, because all of this is already regulated by our regulations. We had several conventions at the session yesterday, it seems to me that today was one international convention, we have an obligation, ratifying these conventions, to put our standard into our proper regulations.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39130	Thank you. You get it?- I'm sorry. Of course, I get it. Mrs. Komic has been misread.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39132	You're wrong at two points. It is one thing for a public prosecutor to be prevented from carrying out his duties in any way by adopting the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. It's possible that I didn't understand you correctly as you spoke, but the DA has his jurisdiction and is obliged to act by jurisdiction, whether he works alone or by application. That's not what this law is about. I think we all know that here. If you want to change social models, make something socially unacceptable, undesirable in society, then you have two choices ahead of you. It is one thing to pass regulation, regulation, law, whatever professionally called it, I am not an expert on rights, therefore, to prescribe in that member of the law what kind of behavior is forbidden because it is based on prejudice. You must do this on some document, as stated in the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, what we consider to be, on behalf of the change in society, as a legislative body, that it is undesirable. In this article of the law we tell everyone – this kind of behavior is forbidden, because it is based on stereotype, on prejudice, on the suffering of someone else you discriminate against only because it is different. The other kind is that you participate in public campaigns, talk to people every day and try to convince each other in the dialogue that what you think is undesirable and unacceptable is unacceptable for others to accept that it is undesirable and unacceptable. Such laws are the most important laws for me and for that part of the policy dealing with changes in social ties. The prohibition of discrimination has a long tradition of regulation, and in the part where you spoke about the Constitution and the obligations arising from the Constitution you and I fully agree. But these acts are simply not clearly defined enough in any other regulation, they are not the subject of criminal legislation and are aimed at making daily life more quality for people living in Serbia. We will all be behind the sentence verbally – no one needs to discriminate. Which one of us will turn his head in the park when you see a young Roma woman being discriminated against? Who will say, "Don't do it?" Who's gonna turn their heads when you see a son discriminate against his 80-year-old father, or you're gonna turn your head? That's what this is about. We have an obligation to tell all of us – what is desirable, acceptable behavior is that in the park, if you see the discrimination of a young Roma woman, you tell whoever does it – don't do it! You can't do that! That's the point of the law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39133	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Judita Popovic. The remaining time of the parliamentary group is five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39134	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will use this little time left to discuss this item of the agenda to specifically quote Jung, who says, "If a wrong man uses the right means, then the right means seems to be upside down." Somehow, this quote also affects my choice of trustees on today's agenda. Why does it look like that? It seems to me for two particular reasons. The first reason is that this is from the second time an attempt to choose the Trustee, after the past term, and the second reason is that it is persistently trying to hide one fact that even from the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality is actually predicting the role of a controlled political man. First of all, I'd like to remind you of article 28. The law prohibiting discrimination, which, among other things, provides for the working experience of the trustees as one of the conditions. So it's not a work experience. It's a work experience. It is that we do not determine whether someone meets the conditions for retirement, so whether he has a certain number of years for a job internship or not, but whether to choose, to propose the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. So there are some things being chased and that was the basic reason why Mr Miletic was not proposed by the board of directors, in fact, it was an excuse why Mr Miletic did not propose. I would particularly like to point out that in the meantime, the candidate behind whom the coalition in power has withdrawn his candidacy, noting that the candidacy has been politicised. Otherwise, the gentleman was, perhaps still is, a special adviser to the Human and Minority Rights Minister, Mr. Chiplic. So he already works, or worked for the government when he was proposed to be someone who should be independent and independent in his work, primarily independent and independent of political factors, by the government. These are the reasons why this law on the prohibition of discrimination already at its beginning, therefore, in the first year of its application there are such shortcomings as to doubt whether this law will really apply in the way it should be applied or not. I'm undermining again. It's not about who's gonna be elected Commissioner. We assume that the candidate on today's agenda, as far as expertise is concerned, is a valid candidate. However, what is in the background, therefore, all that gives the candidate the opportunity to fail to meet expectations, is, above all, the fear of the ruling coalition, the fear of the authorities that they will eventually be kidnapped, that they will not accept any pressure, anything that the government, or coalition in power, will require of the trustee. Apparently, the government is protecting itself from the NGO sector, obviously not allowing the trustee to be completely independent and autonomous. Therefore, all this I have said does not stem from some philosophical thinking, but stems from the way the ruling coalition candidate, or DS, is proposed for the place of trustee. This procedure by the committee responsible is problematic. (President: Time.) ) Otherwise, I would like to point out once again that the annulment of legal work can also be applied to...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39135	Please, time's up. Thank you. The word is Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39136	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the choice of distinguished and respected Mrs Nevena Petrusic for the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality will certainly improve life in Serbia. A lot of these days have been auctioned out in public with the name of the trustee candidate, and we have witnessed that indeed some have had a huge desire to be the very ones appointed to the Trustee. On the other hand, NGOs, these NGOs, which are expected to be a democratic co-ordinator who articulates dissatisfaction, either by means of solving or not solving problems, have the right to participate in political life in a way that proposes laws, to propose even people who do certain jobs. I'm not talking about Ms. Nevena Petrusic. Her work and her work are much better spoken of by the rewards and results of her work than I do. I think my colleagues in their very exhaustive discussions have shown everything that graces Mrs. Petrusic. I will just point out that it is a great pleasure for me to finally choose one woman to function like this, that I am very pleased that Mrs Petrusic is coming from Dimitrovgrad, because I am a Kruševljanin and I know how responsible the people of Kruševec are doing the jobs that are entrusted to them right now, and I know how many people in small areas have to prove themselves to be elected to public office in the Republic of Serbia. I'm going to talk a little bit about discrimination, because there's been a lot of talk when it comes to discrimination. Discrimination is a source of violence and as such it is socially unacceptable, and with violence and discrimination we face every day. The law prohibiting discrimination is a guideline for getting out of the dark and it is a choice of light in every society and so on in ours. Of course, this law provides for the progress of the state, society, Serbia. The law prohibiting discrimination is a guarantee of freedom, solidarity, social justice, it is a law that is the measure and guarantee of government, but also a restriction of every kind of self-will of every individual. This law represents the unity of economic, political, social and cultural needs and the demands of our society, which have finally been translated into norms. Will there be a little more than 126 and 127 of us at the vote? I honestly believe he will. I honestly believe that everyone today understands the importance of the work to be done by Mrs Petrusic. I call on you not to slave against prejudice, political disciplines, party, political and party disciplines and chains, and not to view discrimination as a party and party category, but rather as a social category, above all a valuable category and a value standard to which we seek and which we want to achieve. I want to look back on the discussions I heard in the O.R. They were very interesting. What bothers me and I have come in is a sentence from one of my colleagues - people and women. I think whoever thinks in this room and anyone who hears a sentence - people and women understands why it bothers every man in Serbia and the world. I have a problem with the sentence, yours and my man. It is not Mrs Petrusic, nor your man, she is a man of all citizens of this country and she will protect the rights of all people in this country. There were some interesting discussions I have to look back on. [[Applause]] He was the first call – whether he has to do the job of a trustee for just 10 years, he can do a little less. If at the start of law enforcement someone shows willingness to break it right away, what do we expect from people who use guns to stop trains to beat up a boy, what do we expect from people who shoot guns at a football game or at a coffee shop in Chačka, like it's a shooting range? Then he says -- he could have a candidate for the trustee, or a candidate, come in here and talk to us a little bit. He can't. The Rules of Procedure are quite restrictive and says they cannot, but all 250 MPs, all interested candidates could come to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. It could have been 250 MPs, if he showed his wish, to declare that he wanted to attend the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I am sure that Mr. Veljko Odalovic would ensure that we have a Committee on Constitutional Affairs in this room, so here nicely across from us to sit down all the candidates who want to be and then to have a nice talk, apologize to them, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The question arises – what is the measure of the law? Justice and justice are the measure of every law. The power of the law has been established by the Constitution, and is limited by the freedoms and rights of citizens and view it as a sauce, on the one hand you have the Constitution, on the other hand, freedom and the rights of citizens. When you bring that scale into one horizon, into one perfect harmony, you have passed a law that perfectly meets the needs of a society. The cantar certainly exists and in the future anyone who from the aspect of the violation of the Law of Discrimination will be the cantar of whom he will be able to and shall be the one who will be able to measure his error on that cantar. I am absolutely convinced that this job will be carried out by Mrs Petrusic with responsibility, security, professionally and professionally, without any party or political interference. When we talk about the Law, the Law that we have passed on the choice of the Trustee does not serve to enhance reality, we do not bring it to idealization for the sake of it. We bring it in because of a future reality that we want it to be better, and as such a law contains the will of most who are always stronger than the will of individuals. This has been so since the weeks since the laws were passed in the civilized world, most people's will has always been above the will of individuals and has been left to the will of most lawmakers. This law we make must be more perfect both in the idea and in the realization. In Serbia's history, laws were often passed that were far more perfect in the idea than in realisation and achievement. Our goal is for this law to be identical both in the idea and in the realization, to bring it closer to the ideal of righteousness and righteousness. I am absolutely convinced that by choosing the distinguished Ms. Nevena Petrusic this goal of making the law equally perfect both in the idea and in the realization, because I think we have found one person who will be able to implement it in practice and in action. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39137	Nice.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39138	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39139	The word is Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39140	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS expressed its position on the Commissioner for Discrimination at the time we talked about the Anti- Discrimination Act, which was adopted here several months ago. He also spoke of his colleague Krasic, the good part, about it. I don't want to say it again, but I want to draw attention to why we think it is and why we claimed it that way, of course nothing has changed today. First, we have the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that guarantees all citizens of Serbia all human and minority rights from the human rights corps, which exist in the most modern European states and democracies. We think that's enough, of course, in the sense that all these rights, both human and minority, are in some way regulated by certain laws, but by laws that, I'm sorry, are more serious than this law. Because if you have the law, or we have the law, and we will have after this session and that trustee for discrimination, and what are the responsibilities of that trustee? I can tell they're gone. There are these powers in the law, but these powers do not oblige anyone, in fact, to anyone. Of course, I'm going to say a few examples of what you call them, independent regulatory bodies, how they do their job and how in vain they really are. Now, I mean nothing wrong and nothing personal against any name I'm going to mention through a function he performs, based on certain laws. What was discussed at the same time, it was written, that we reached the height of democracy when we, as an independent regulatory body, chose a Council to fight corruption? This advice, i.e. Verica Barac at the head of the council, began to deal seriously with corruption, started calling state officials, started, yes, I am talking about the Council, Mr Novakovic, and later I will talk about the Agency. When Mrs Barać, probably, began to bother some of the authorities, because she mentioned a lot of them, because she mentioned the names of some ministers and other officials, their involvement in some affairs, when she tried to initiate, or to support Mr Todorovic as then the president of the Security Committee in the disclosure of the 'Luke Belgrade affair' affair, and then 'evening news', and before that, you realized that you didn't need so much an independent regulatory body, and then, in some cases, you passed the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, and then, I don't know, I can't even today as a lawyer, first of all, that I understand how it is and where the status of that advice is now, and now the Council's affairs are being carried out by the Anti-Corruption Agency, based again, and this was first on the law. Now, how does the Anti-Corruption Agency work? Again, we had every newspaper full of praises about Mrs. Zorana Markovic, if I remembered well that the lady was called and, we didn't discuss her personally, neither will we now, but she promised the strongest fight against corruption, there will be no leverage, she can't wait to get her sleeves together to deal with crime, with corruption. The first exam on which the agency fell is a conflict of interest! The first exam on which all of you fell from the ruling majority, because the same ruling majority is in both the Serbian Parliament and the Vojvodina Assembly, is what you allowed, as a government, to the Assembly of Vojvodina derrogates and the Law and jurisdiction of the Anti-Corruption Agency, by telling officials living in the territory of the AP Vojvodina – they are not subject to the law, they want to be, for example, the presidents of the municipalities and province MPs, or what functions are already at stake. And they've made some kind of decision, I don't even know what it can be called, actually, as a lawyer, I know it can't be done at all, that there's no law that can be put out of force, except for the law. So the law can put out of force some law or regulations of some law. And it's obviously accepted. Now, again, that's how we read in a newspaper whose functioner it is allowed, and who it's not, but it's an absolute mockery of that significant function. Absolutely, uncontested significant functions, such as the significant function of Verice Barac. I apologize for speaking my names now, but since I am speaking for the public and the citizens of Serbia, then it is certainly closer to everyone when I mention the name than when I mention the Agency or the function that it is about. What do we have when it comes to the State Auditor? There was no dispute that there should be a State Auditor, there should be a State Auditor Act. The law has been passed and it's been passed, or... a lot, a lot of time. The deadline of the law was exceeded until the State Auditor was finally elected, so then, one long period of the State Auditor has no office, the State Auditor has no computer, the State Auditor has no one to work with. Do the State Auditor one piece of his job, a piece, he himself said here in parliament, that only one quarter of the work he was supposed to do was done. We'll see what fate will be like and all those misdemeanor reports he filed. He also announced criminal charges, so he couldn't take them. You here as the ruling majority, have not allowed MPs to discuss the State Auditor's Report. You invented that variant when MPs could ask questions to government representatives, or to the president and ministers, and then you from the ruling majority used that session to ask a few questions about the Auditor's Report, so that we could read in the media the next day how the MPs discussed the Auditor Report. Which, of course, is not true! For example, SRS MPs could only ask questions twice in five minutes that day. If that were on the agenda, then we'd have an hour and 27 or 28 minutes to talk about it. You yourself are doing something contrary to what you claim at a time when you pass the law. When the Auditor Act was passed, then everyone swore, in the meantime, until the auditor started doing at least what he had done so far, then every day and in every place we could listen – when the state auditor finally started to work, then there would be no more problems. Then you'll know "who's hair and who's wearing water." It will then be known where every state dollar, or every citizen of Serbia, is going to go, because the money in the budget is, in fact, the money of Serbian citizens, who, based on the basics, which are in accordance with the law, fill that budget. However, when it comes to the specific one, you somehow pull a manual there, you are no longer willing to do such a job seriously. Let me, I can doubt it, and we can suspect that this is because at some point, when these independent regulatory bodies start to work seriously, there are obstacles to the fact that in the course of their work they have to say where a minister went wrong, and where the Prime Minister, who broke the law, who committed a crime, which is a crime, etc. Then there's no more room for further work. That's the impression they get in the SRS and we get that impression. We claim that this is the case, but the citizens of Serbia have that impression. We have another problem with the State Auditor. He should now be reviewing the business of public enterprises. Again, man, he's complaining he doesn't have anyone to work with. Give me more, hire as much as you need. We talked about it, and counterpart Krasic specifically spoke as chairman of the Finance Committee. Let the conditions be made that finally the State Auditor has as many employees as he claims he needs to do his job. Give them decent wages, because if they do a good job, they'll pay, whatever they are, and how they pay off. You have a consensus to solve such problems in this House, but you won't. At least you're showing that you won't, that you don't want to. We have a case of the Commissioner for Public Information, Mr. Sabic. Do you remember how much this man is, he's been crying in public for years, he's got no conditions to work again, no room, no pay, no ability to hire people. Finally, when such conditions are acquired, when a man begins to work, the same problems again. We again learn from the media that Mr. Rodoljub Sabic cannot get information from certain ministers, or ministries, or public enterprises, etc. It is a complete function to which he is elected, and it does not matter whether it is Rodoljub Sabic or a name, we are talking about the Commissioner for Public Information. Then we have the Protector of Citizens, Mr. Sasa Jankovic, and it still doesn't matter what his name is. I would like one of you to tell us what Mr. Sasa Jankovic has done as the Protector of Citizens, in what way, how many citizens, whom the citizen has protected, what rights the citizen has protected. Again, I do not want to talk about Sasha Jankovic or anything bad for him personally, but simply such circumstances are such a political climate that you do not allow the shadow to fall on someone who is part of the ruling majority, and the ruling coalition and government in Serbia. You can't be God's day and you can't be sinless. I hope you're okay with that. We have a president of the state who announces on several occasions a serious fight against corruption, a serious fight against crime, and then when Dragan Todorovic, as a Serbian radical, on the Defence and Security Committee, after the appearance of a letter from Boris Tadic calling on all state authorities to start fighting corruption, asks to call the Committee on such a agenda, then has an obstruction from the DS and has a request and final resolution from that post. Why do you mind if someone who isn't from your political option wants to help you fight corruption and crime? I'm sorry, we think that means that you honestly don't want to. It can't be interpreted differently. Here were the words, colleague Trivan talked about various forms of discrimination, I don't want to challenge the replica, but just to remind myself of what we heard here today, which was why it was necessary to pass this law, and then to choose the Commissioner for Discrimination. Then the colleague talked about discrimination in employment, discrimination against employees, discrimination against women, discrimination against old people, discrimination against people in the rural area. Excuse me, what can the Commissioner you'll choose to do when it comes to this discrimination? All that's listed by colleague Elena Trivan is the discrimination of the state against these groups. Here's how. I'll explain. If there is discrimination against employees or employment, and there is, in a sense, when you come to work to ask you – how old are you, are you married if it is a woman, whether you have your own vehicle, what has nothing to do with what is related to the workplace and the jobs you have to do. We heard here a few days ago that three or four pregnant women were fired in one ministry as part of a reduction in the republican administration. Or, if we know that in the local self-government and state administration under the application of this law that you have passed, a reduction in the number of employees in the Republic administration, it is present in all Serbia that cancellations are obtained by people who do not belong to parties that are in power in some municipality or do not belong to parties that exercise republican authority. These people get fired, and on the same day or day before, you have as many examples as you want, people who are party, who are party to those who exercise power, but who receive them, if the law said, for a certain time, or contract, to be translated into a permanent working relationship. It is a kind of discrimination. Unfortunately, this trustee of yours can't do anything about it. This is the jurisdiction of the Labour Act. This is the responsibility of the ministry, which is in serious charge of the application of the Labour Act, and this is, above all, the jurisdiction of certain courts. When it comes to discrimination, as the colleague said, according to the old faces, well, there is no greater discrimination than what you duped the pensioners two years ago and you don't keep your promises to coordinate pensions with the way you promised them. It's the biggest discrimination. Can Mrs. Nevena Petrusic, when you choose her, fight such discrimination? He can't. She doesn't have jurisdiction and she can't, and no one's gonna ask her about that. She spoke to a colleague about discrimination against women within families, children, too. Can Mrs. Nevena Petrusic, even if she was 50 times better than what you praised her, do something against that and such discrimination? He can't. You agree, he can't. Who can? The competent national authorities. The competent state authorities in this case are the Centre for Social Work as part of the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Combat Affairs, courts, prosecutors, the MUP. Those organs have to do their job and then we won't need this trustee. I'm saying all of this to explain to you why we were against this law and against the appointment of this trustee. So, God forbid we're not against discrimination of every kind and we're not about protecting anyone who's been discriminated against on any basis. We absolutely are, but we think that the way is not good and that it is not fair enough that you are trying to hide such discrimination against such discrimination from some quasi-democratic institutions or democratic institutions, if that's what you want, rather than insisting that the competent authorities do their job. Protecting people in the rural area who, according to a colleague, have been discriminated against again, if there is discrimination, then it is discrimination by the state and by local self-government. How can these people in rural areas be discriminated against urban areas? By having no paved roads. Is that what Neven Petrusic will do? He can't. Because they don't have a water network, a sewer network, phone lines, mobile phones, cable TV. It's all a kind of discrimination, and it's terrible that every village's citizens don't have what they have in town, but they don't, but the trustee can't let them do it. It's state-of-the-art. This can be done by the ministry that has money, held by the NIP, by local self-government, and this trustee can only conclude and the question is whether Mrs Petrusic would accept it as discrimination against people living in rural, or rural areas. I agree with Mrs. Trivan that it is discrimination and is an obligation of the state to solve this problem of such discrimination. The SRS is against discrimination in this society and in this country, against discrimination of each type. The SRS advocates that the competent state authorities do their job independently, independently without, political pressures, without party pressures, that the Ministry does its job, the prosecutions do their job, that courts do their job and that local self-government units are citizens' services, that ministry representatives do their job in the way that the law prescribes them, even bad laws and many, according to the SRS, are bad laws, but whatever it is, the law is to apply and apply it equally to each and that they are all the same before the law. If we were to do so, then Serbia would be a legal state, then it would be either negligible or there would be no discrimination against which you are trying to fight in the wrong way, because by selecting the Commissioner for Discrimination you are Abolishing some of the other bodies I mentioned, the competent state authorities that are the only ones invited. So you can't have an organ that has some kind of authority unless it's sanctioned. It just doesn't mean anything. You know well, and until this Anti-Corruption Agency law is passed, we'll see, I mentioned it at the beginning, how it will essentially apply now that the data of that agency is published, etc., but we saw while the Council is bound by these 'no, no' remarks, some kind of public or secret reminders, which it obliges. The one he commits has so much morals that he will never allow himself to come under such a standard to be given any measure or warning. You were talking about the opinion of NGOs and this candidate and some other candidates who were in the previous session. It's from the SRS aspect of the wrong attitude. Why should we take care of what NGOs think of someone elected by the congregation? Of course, even when the NGOs of each Serbian citizen are mentioned, they associate with Sonja Biserko, Natasa Kandic and those hated figures in Serbia, but even if they are other NGOs, I don't know who they are anymore. Now I'd say charity, so, then, I remember Katherine's Rebrachet. It is also evidence, and these NGOs that are both governmental, but not the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In relation to the government of the Republic of Serbia, they are NGOs, but they are also governments compared to some other governments that don't think well of the citizens of Serbia. Because of our Serbian radicals, it is no argument to you how much NGOs support or do not support this proposal. You noticed that I did not speak about the candidate Ms. Nevena Petrusic, my colleague Krasic said several sentences and more as a student-day colleague, but why? Because we rarely talk about a name and a last name when it comes to a proposal, unless it's a drastically poor choice of the ruling majority, then we make arguments why it's so bad, if it's not such a case, then we mostly don't talk about the name and last name that's proposed because it doesn't matter to us, it's your business, you who are the authority, who are the ruling majority. You suggest, you choose. You don't care what we think about it, do you? That's right. Well, and if you care, go ahead, choose for yourself, take responsibility, anyway. Why do we still not want to talk specifically about these suggestions? Because it is unacceptable for us that you and this trustee and all these trustees, the auditors, etc., which I mentioned during my debate, are constantly arguing, we do not know why, that these are people who do not belong to any party, who are not party-defined. That's just not true. We don't see what you're ashamed of. Is Neven Petrusic a formal member of DS, G17, SPS, which is now all in power, perhaps not, perhaps he is. But if it wasn't politically defined and it didn't clearly show, as some of the political parties in power, that's impossible. We don't blame you, we blame you for why you deceive us, why you deceive the public that it's someone who's a non-partisan personality. That's what we blame you for. And I do not blame you if you are the authority to say, yes, Nevena Petrusić, all of this, is beautiful, beautiful, all that you have spoken about her, and is a member of the DS. Why are you ashamed of that? Why is it that you demean people who are involved in politics and who are partying? Why does someone have to be ashamed to say - I'm an excellent expert, I have a working experience, I have a professional experience, I have that kind of work behind me, but I'm a member of that party too? Why should someone be ashamed of it and be a distraction to be elected as a regulatory independent body? If someone applies the law and really works strictly by the law, then no one will mind why they belong to this party or that party, but we are bothered by hypocrisy. We don't just insist on that right now, whenever you're talking about some regulatory body, some trustee, some agency, and we're saying it's nothing to do with the parties, we've always told you it's not true. I don't know how it doesn't happen for all these years, for the past ten years, how many of you choose these non-partisan personalities, how come you don't get to choose some SRS sympathiser? Believe me, we have both smart and professional and educated, who are not members, such as Neven Petrusic is not a member of the DS. You know, no one's gonna go into membership records and check whether this lady is a member of some of the parties that are in power or not, but you don't have to hide that fact. Just two more things. Article 28 of this law says the Commissioner cannot perform another public or political function or professional activity. The question to which I expect an answer, if you know it, of course, will Ms. Nevena Petrusic continue to be a dean at the University of Low Law? I know he's not right. If someone has been involved for so many years, decades, professional scientific work, university professor, university dean, it would be interesting if we could hear from Mrs Petrusic what it is to give up such a professional engagement, scientific work, the work of scientists, a professor at the university is a scientist, to give it up and to do this job which, unfortunately, means nothing? What Mrs. Petrusic was doing voluntarily in this SOS channel, etc., she will not be able to do anything more than that now, as someone who, in this position, will be appointed by the National Assembly, has no more authority. Also, when someone complains to say that he has been violated by a right, that he is discriminated against, then Mrs Petrusic will quote him a member of 41st, and now I quote him, this law, says – anyone who is injured by discriminatory treatment has the right to press charges. Is it possible that someone who is a doctor of legal science to deal with the team and to give up their careers so that someone who has been wronged by a discriminatory procedure can be told – you can file a lawsuit because you have been violated by law? A little illogical, you have to admit. Of course, Mrs Petrusic has the right to choose. But now I ask you – you will choose, too, undeniably, your right. We're not voting, colleagues, so let's get this straight right now. What do I ask you – this is a second attempt to choose the Trustee? Today we heard all the most beautiful and positive things about Ms. Nevena Petrusic. The question, why, and we had one failed attempt at selecting the trustee, which is how it's possible... (EXCLAIMS: No! We didn't?- I'm sorry. This is a trustee's choice? And he wasn't on the board, so he failed? A suggestion, of course. You had one proposal that didn't go through. Well, don't deceive the public now, because it was on the board, colleague Komic, not in this room. It wasn't in direct transmission, so the citizens don't know. So, well, you will replicate, and you will say – it is not disputed. Here, however, I am asking, since the deadline for selecting the Trustees was March 1st, the deadline was past and was on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, is that right – that is, why didn't you then, or where did Mrs Nevena Petrusic hide herself from you then, and why didn't you go out with such an ideal proposal? That's how you described it today, and I'm not going to question any of what you said about Mrs. Petrusic at all. If that is the case, then the first question for you is: where did you hide it until then? How then did you not suggest it? The question for her is publicly asked – does she think it's good that her career as a scientist, a professor of the university, a dean, replace this business that, we claim, has no function, has no purpose at all? So we believe that Mrs Petrusic is a fighter against discrimination. It has proved to be a humanitarian activity, through this professional, official, professional engagement, but it should know that this law does not give it any special authority. We appeal once again – you are the ruling majority, make sure that those who exercise power, in executive power, in the judicial branch of the government, do their job and do it in the interests of the citizens. We invited you yesterday. We asked you to ask the authorities to protect the citizens of Arandjelovec, because Mrs Petrusic could not protect them from insecurities these days, from the harshest aggression of a political party, for which no one yet knows where it is financed from, and it is called "the Progressive Party". No one knows where he's funding from. We asked the Auditor, and here I return to the Auditor, to determine how all political parties in Serbia are financed, from where each political party in Serbia has the money. It would probably not be a big problem for him to find out how the parties financed from the budget are financed, some probably beyond the budget. He talked about this Stanko Sobotić Cane – about Saric's money, about his money, about Miskovic and about Bek. A lot of money revolves around political parties, some, of course, and it is certainly under the greatest suspicion and the greatest question of how can a party not receiving a single dinar be financed from Serbia's budget? Now, if this auditor of yours would do his job as it says in the law – we would, you would, all of us, and the public of Serbia would have the answer to that question by now. For such reasons, therefore, for specific examples I have been talking about for half an hour – we do not believe in this institution, neither in this law, nor in the true intention of the ruling majority, nor in the right way against discrimination. Now I'm not talking about those discriminations that you were talking about, of course, because against every discrimination we have to fight hard and confront, but I've illustrated the examples that colleague Trivan listed here and showed you – that in fact the state discriminates on citizens. The state also discriminates against disabled persons because it does not allow them, does not allow them to be employed enough, because it does not oblige them to have access enough. How many institutions today, here in Belgrade, not to say in all of Serbia, have that wheelchair approach, how many? Unfortunately, not enough – and not enough, if not all. That's where we have to, and that's not where the trustee can write every day. That he goes past some community, for example, and there's no wheelchair downhill in that municipality, to whom he's going to write - to the president of the municipality, he says "I care" and throw it in the basket? So, no jurisdiction, no ability to force him. So, gentlemen of the ruling majority, make your government, you chose them, make them do their job seriously, every ministry. Of course, this means that you will also force local self-governments where you exercise power and we, where we exercise power, and all parties that exercise power in local self-government – to fight hard against every kind of discrimination. As parties we can and must do our own public appearances, we can, but that is enough from the parties – so what happened three days ago in Leskovac, when again the Committee of the Serbian Progressive Party was saying that the Roma population is an immoral group, as they said, because women get married early. So there are many ways to show both humanity and the fight against discrimination, and those who exercise power, those who are executive power, those who are the judicial branch of power, they are those who are not only "necessary", but who "must". And you, as the ruling majority, can force them – they must also oppose any kind of discrimination in society and deal seriously with the fight against any corruption and crime. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39141	Thank you. Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the search is concluded, do they want the word of the president, or of the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93? (Yes) We will start with Mrs. Judith Popovic, and the remaining time is two and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39142	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is really pleased to us from the LDP when we see how proud you are to have passed the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, especially because we have made a great contribution and with our support this law is voted upon, with a narrow majority of 127 votes "for". We are very glad that this law has come to the congregation’s agenda at all, which this congregation has debated in the first place. We believe that this was extremely brave by the ruling coalition, at least by those who supported the law. However, it is obvious that you no longer have the courage to continue to support the law in such a form and to carry out how it should be implemented. That second step is actually the choice of trustees. Obviously, there's a problem, and obviously there's no political will. Without going into political reasons and any other reason, I can only tell you one thing, I don't think anyone's biography can cover that fact that you didn't have enough power in the next step, or enough courage to support this law as a whole.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39143	Thank you, Mrs. Popovic. The word is from Mr Miroslav Markicevic, authorised representative of the New Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39144	Mr. Vice President, I'm the vice president of the parliamentary group, it doesn't matter. In the semi-distribution and in the semi-serious sense to say that as far as this discrimination is concerned, we of some MPs are discriminated against, some may speak from a pay phone, some not, but well, 'no beam', which the people say, is no big deal. In fact, in this remaining time, I want to think that this is important to the citizens of Serbia who watch this transmission, I say a few words, so I'm getting more and more convinced that what I said was needed, that these are not just formal things that I said, so now I'm telling the citizens openly that I think that trade here has gone wrong, because this is about political interest and partyism. If LDP had been promised this place, so since LDP and NGOs have proposed a candidate who formally does not meet the requirements, well, then we've come to where we've come from. That's why I was saying that conditions should be created, to create a climate where such functions are chosen by the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, so the motion itself is being discriminated. We don't choose the trustee. We choose the trustee. We choose the trustee. Therefore, the proposal for a decision should be read – a proposal for a decision on the choice of ''Trusts' or ''Trusts'' to protect equality. For this reason, if Mr. Miletic had some formal-legal reasons, whether he is ten years old or not, then this is also formal-legal reasons. That's why I asked you to withdraw this, to carry out some relatively restrictive, according to the Rules of Procedure, as Mr Milivojevic says, which is, of course, discrimination, he admits why the Rules of Procedure is limiting, let all MPs and MPs say what they think, to withdraw it, and then, next week, the same after an emergency procedure, create an atmosphere to create conditions for such a function, both politically and human and businessly, that all vote. And, then, to give the citizens a message that this will not be one of the sea functions and some agencies, which we have chosen here as we have chosen, someone voted, someone has not, but that citizens really benefit from it. Because I believe that all the laws we are making here are not just because, Mrs Popovic, which is what someone asked for from Europe, but because of ourselves, because of the citizens of Serbia. It is true, as you say, that the condition for the visa waiver was also the adoption of the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. I wish it was just that law. The conditions are also many laws that are not in the interest of citizens. These are obviously in the interest of the citizens. The EU has, why not say, respected its promise and downloaded visas to citizens. And what did we do? What did the Government of the Republic of Serbia do? Do you, Mrs Popovic, know? Believe me, you don't need this to be a reason for your replica, I'm telling you well-meaningly. The percentage of citizens travelling to Europe before taking their visas off and now that visas are removed is the same. What's he saying? So, at least on this basis, the EU no longer discriminates against Serbian citizens, allows them to travel freely, but is discriminated against by the government of the Republic of Serbia by their poor work, a low standard of Serbian citizens. They don't have the money to travel. What benefit does 90% of Serbian citizens benefit from visas removed? What good do they have from it, on paper, when they don't have the money to travel? They don't have the money to feed. One more thing, I'm sorry Mrs. Comic isn't here. I accept the commendations she made at the expense of New Serbia. You know, we've passed some laws on gender equality, that is, on "equal gender representation in public affairs," that's what it's called, and read - woman. Then here we all agree that one New Serbia that is full, thank God, beautiful and smart women, which I want to other parties, has respected and has 33.33% of women, or less represented sex. Why didn't the other parties do it? Why didn't the Government of the Republic of Serbia do it? And then to be more convincing and prove to the citizens that we are not voting the sea of the law here because someone asked us to, but because it would be good for the citizens of Serbia? Therefore, I propose that DS as a leader of the European road, on Monday, the Administrative Committee, tomorrow, can schedule the Chief Board and, I say, please understand me correctly, the extra colleague in his parliamentary club sends some other functions, and the lack of a colleague puts in a parliamentary group, as New Serbia did. And to prove that they are truly sincere in representing and thinking what they are preaching to us here and what laws and decisions they make. So, what's the problem? Do it, gentlemen, prove it and then the citizens will trust you more. Then perhaps more citizens will be able to move faster and join the EU. So, the main problem is that 80% of Serbian citizens declare themselves in all EU polls, for EU entry, for European values, but that they do not trust the main promoters, exclusive, self-proclaimed, European values, because they obviously do not truly represent it. Here's your chance, gentlemen of the DS, on Monday is the Administrative Board, and I'm going to report as a member of the Administrative Board to ask for an update on the agenda, so just give me a list of women who are missing by number at your MP's club and prove you're on the European path. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39145	Thank you, Mr. Markicevic. I apologize once again, of course I know you're the deputy president of the parliamentary group. The word is by Mrs Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic, an authorised representative of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39146	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia at a session held on 30 March 2010 established a proposal for a decision to elect trustees to protect equality, based on Article 28. The law prohibiting discrimination and pursuant to Article 183. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In an explanation of the motionor, among other things, said the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, at a session held on 30 March 2010, discussed candidate Goran Miletic and professor Dr Nevena Petrusic for the Trustor for the Protection of Equality. After discussing the biography and talks with the proposed candidates, the committee set out a proposal for a decision on the selection of Professor Nevena Petrusic for the Trustee for the Protection of Equality. The Committee proposes that the National Assembly decide on the choice of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality under an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 165(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is scheduled to put forward a proposal for selecting officials during the session of the National Assembly, exceptionally, on the basis of an urgent procedure on the agenda of the session, on a reasoned proposal from the mandated promoter. The adoption of this decision provides for conditions for the start of work of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, as an independent state body in which the work of citizens is a protection against all forms of discrimination. I think it should be a little order in this assembly, Mr. Novakovic, because it is the end of working time, but it takes a little respect and dignity for this assembly. The Commissioner for the Protection of Equality only formally is not authorized to control the National Assembly, the Government, courts and prosecutors, but if he controls the state administration, it is not something independent, outside the government, because the government is covering all of it. The Commissioner for Equality is, in essence, a state body, but, from the point of view of the decision it makes and the importance of its decisions, it is a very important para-state body in this regard. In an organisational sense, as a constitutional category, it is a state body, but it deals with issues of protection of equality. Under the Anti-discrimination Protection Act, the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality is elected, from Articles 28 to 40. We have already heard the choice of the Commissioner, so it is elected by the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The Commissioner may be elected a citizen of the Republic of Serbia who meets the following conditions: firstly, that he is a graduate lawyer; secondly, that he has at least ten years of experience in legal affairs in the field of protection of human rights and thirdly, to possess high moral and professional qualities. The SRS believes that this bill was to come to this respected home six months ago, as it is under Article 63. The draft law on protection against discrimination and Article 61, these members of the law were due to enter into force two months ago, or on 1 March 2010. So he's already late at the beginning. Also, the SRS advocates equality at all levels and fights discrimination. The SRS combats discrimination at all levels and the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, which was adopted in this esteemed House in 2009, prohibits discrimination on any basis, and particularly on the basis of race, skin colour, citizenship, nationality or ethnic origin, language, religious or political beliefs, gender, gender, gender identity, sexual orientation, property, birth, genetic personality, health status, disability, marital status and family status, condemnation, age, appearance, membership in political, trade union and other organisations, by other real, or assumed personal properties. The SRS considers that this law on discrimination is selectively implemented on a variety of grounds. Laws and regulations prohibiting discrimination based on gender, gender identity, disability have been passed. However, what simply burdens us, that is also the reason for the frequent problems we have in the country with violence, which is that people in health are being discriminated against. On the one hand, the media, both printed and written, are filled with various notifications and information about how people with disabilities are helped, that is fine, and that should be done, for people with genetic personalities, however, neither in the newspapers nor in legal solutions that help people who are sick. In particular, there are no principles here or prevention of the mental state of young people. As a result, we fear that during this economic crisis, poverty, poverty and increasing violence, children will be neglected and that the rise in crime will be on a growing scale. That's why we advocate that this population group, therefore, also has health problems, is regulated under some law, not discriminated against. I met Ms. Neven Petrusic as president of the Committee on Gender Equality, she participated in the work of two round tables of the Committee on Gender Equality, when the Law on Gender Equality was discussed. I can't talk about her expertise. I believe that her biography is fair and true, but I can say that she is one great professional and that, in the context of this discussion of the Law on Gender Equality, she is very well involved and taken up, so the consequence of that is the adoption of this one of the roof laws against discrimination, meaning the Law on Gender Equality. There were two round tables, one was in Nis, the other was in Belgrade, and on one round table in Belgrade was also Mr. Sasa Jankovic, Protector of the rights of citizens, a man who deals with all human rights and under these human rights are anti-discrimination laws. What he said on that occasion is very interesting. He pointed to the existence of discrimination in the implementation of the Law on the Protection of Citizens, which prescribed the obligation for the existence of five Protectors for five key areas, and only four were elected, so that the Deputy Protector of Citizens for Gender Equality also covered the area of persons with disabilities. He also pointed out the existence of certain shortcomings in this proposal for a law on discrimination and the abandonment of some norms that would better indicate that this law is implemented in this environment. The SRS sees as a disputed point, which is that the proposal of the trustee does not have to be from the field of NGOs and that the lady who is proposed is not a shortfall, because she has a hundred NGOs and a dozen institutional organisations behind her. So if you were 150, it's not some plus that she'd be elected Commissioner for Equality. The SRS particularly insists on the principle of professionalism, objectivity, independence and independence. We are not sure whether these conditions will succeed, because, as we have seen, it will not be fully independent in its work. So people who have to implement these laws must be independent and independent and that is a guarantee that there is a will to implement the laws in society. It is important that this law does not violate human rights and that the trustee works justly and morally. The Serbian Radical Party hopes that the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality will not be abused for purely political purposes. On the other hand, the Serbian Radical Party is against discrimination against political parties in relation to NGOs and we do not think it is necessary for some person to be from an NGO, to be professional, moral and not to politicise this matter. We have nothing against Ms. Nevena Petrusic, but we are not authorized as an opposition and in principle to vote for this proposal. We have no obligation as an opposition to plead on this matter, and we believe that this should be decided by a ruling coalition that has 126, hopefully, votes. Discrimination, I say, is just one segment of human rights, but it has no efficiency, because it depends on these other laws, which are above it. We are against violence and discrimination, and therefore we must be careful not to disqualify it in some way. Finally, Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia refers to a ban on discrimination. We believe that, I say once again, the Serbian Radical Party has nothing personal against Ms. Nevena Petrusic, but we are in principle against this law because we are expressing doubts, but it does not give us the right to disobey the laws. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39147	Thank you. Before I conclude a single search on the motion for a decision, does the proposing representative, the MP Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, president of the Constitutional Affairs Board, want the final word? (No) I am concluding a single search, and as we have carried out a single search on the draft decision, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on a proposal for a decision on the choice of Commissioners for the Protection of Equality. (Judita Popovic, MP, from the post: Replica. You have no right to a replica, Mrs Popovic. It's a business thing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39148	Reporting under Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I believe that, as vice president of the assembly, I was right, if anything, at least, to declare through the microphone that I am chairman of whether I have the right to reply or not, and not through some discussion at this table. Otherwise, I came forward for a reason, given that the Liberal Democratic Party was called to make some kind of trade regarding its candidate for the Commissioner. So, the Liberal Democratic Party was a formal candidate, but with the Liberal Democratic Party there were 211 NGOs who supported the proposal. That's huge support for one candidate, and that's Mr. Miletic. It's not about any kind of shop. We were also in the first attempt when the candidate was suggested to meet all formal and legal conditions, which he did, he literally had all the conditions that had been laid down by law, and that he had the wrong interpretation of the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, that's the second question again. So I remain that the Liberal Democratic Party has indeed proposed Mr Miletic, but that along with the Liberal Democratic Party, the proposal was also put by NGOs, which is 211. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39149	There is no breach of Rules of Procedure, Rule 104. The right to a replica can't be the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure at all. The Rules of Procedure shall apply uniformly and shall apply to all Members of Parliament and shall not make any discrimination against the function which you and I are currently taking. If you are not satisfied with this explanation, in the day of the vote, the Assembly will plead your injury indicated.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39150	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-16-0.u39151	Thank you, therefore, the Assembly has no need to plead, I've given a good explanation. We move to the 93rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON AMENDMENTS AND DEFINITIONS OF THE DECISION ON THE MEETING OF THE MEMBER STATE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA You have received a proposal for a decision taken by the SRS parliamentary group (number 02-879/10 of 26 March 2010). Before the search opens, I remind you that, according to Article 163 paragraph 3 and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups by a proportion of MPs, by a generally established time interval. I ask the MPs' groups to report for a word, with a order of MPs. According to Article 163(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the proposing representative, MP Dragan Todorovic, want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No application) No one has submitted, no parliamentary group has filed a written application with a number of MPs, so I ask, once again, before I conclude a single search into the motion for a decision, whether MP Dragan Todorovic wants a final word, as set out in Article 44. Rules of Procedure? (No) I am concluding a single search on the proposal for a decision. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. We move to item 94 of the agenda: – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia (No 02-888/10 of 26 March 2010). Before the search opens, I remind you that, according to Article 163 paragraph 3 and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups by a proportion of MPs, by a generally established time interval. I ask the parliamentary groups, unless they have done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 163(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does a representative of the Proposer, the People's MP of Hope Kolundji, want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) I would like to inform you that no one has filed an application for a word in writing. Before I conclude a unique search, I ask if anyone else wants a word that hasn't used their right to Article 93. Rules of Procedure? (No) Whether the proposing representative, the People's MP of Hope Kolundji, wants the closing word to be compatible with Article 144. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? (No) I am concluding a single search on the proposal for a decision. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. We've exhausted everything we're supposed to do today. I schedule a session on Monday, April 19th, 2010, starting at 11.00 p.m., and we will begin with amendments to the 1st item of the agenda, and this, on the draft law amending and supplementing the Refugees Act. Have a nice weekend, get some rest, and at 11:00, we'll be on Monday. I welcome you. Thank you for your cooperation.
