ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47363	Dear Members, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 96 MPs. In order to determine the quorum needed to work, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 95 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions for working under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I remind the MPs that on Tuesdays and Thursdays, following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate, the National Assembly is working on the basis of Article 286(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which states that the President, the President of the National Assembly, the President of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, has the right to request notices and explanations from the President of the National Assembly, the President of the Committee of the National Assembly, the Ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations on issues covered by the rights and duties of these officials and the authority at which they are headed. So that this right can also be achieved at the session of the National Assembly orally, in one address, for up to five minutes, on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and immediately after the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate. Before I give my word to the first of the MPs declared to exercise their right under Article 286, on the basis of Articles 90, Article 2 and Article 87, I give two notices. The first notification concerns today's date. Today is November 25th, by the UN declared the Day of Fight against Violence against Women. I am pleased to inform you, unless this notice has reached you, that the chairman of the Committee on Gender Equality of the National Assembly, National MP Gordana Pavnović Milosavljevic, at 11.00 p.m. today, in a small hall, together with other members and members of the Committee, organised a public hearing "The role of the media in the fight against violence against women". I call on all MPs, who have no other obligations or obligations during the session, to attend this meeting, in the organisation and at the invitation of the chairman of the Committee on Gender Equality, Parliament of the People of Gordana Pavnović Milosavljevic. The second notice concerns the course of work of our day. On the basis of article 87, we'll be working after 1800 hours today. After the session is completed on the basis of Article 286, we will move on to the opening of the 12th item of the agenda and then, if it ends before 1400 hours, a break will be set which will last until 14:00 hours, when we will move to search in particular, and according to the points of the agenda that have been the subject of our joint principle and uniform search. At 4:00 p.m. today, as the last Thursday of the month, a session with members of the government will begin, asking parliamentary questions, which will last until 19.00 p.m., after which we will continue the discussion in particular, i.e. a search in particular. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 286? Rules of Procedure? Yeah. The People's MP, Riza Halimi, has a word for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47364	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in April of this year I referred the question to the MUP that a large number of families from Medvedje, Bujanovac and Presevo, whose children were born in the birthplaces of Pristina and Gjilan, cannot register their children in the parent books born in these municipalities. In June, I got the answer that there was absolutely no such problem. However, another process is taking place parallelly, which is being restarted by the MUP, the Police Directorate in Vranj. A statement in March of this year said that the director of the health home of Hasan Bajram from Bujanovac, a number of doctors, nurses, as well as the management of a private office, Dr Djikic, had been initiated through the MUP, and then the public prosecutor's office in Vranj filed an indictment against the same persons. In fact, the subject of these indictments concerns exactly the problems of registering children born in Pristina and Gjilan, whose parents are from Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedje. It said that specialist reports were issued to Albanian nationalities in the Bujanovac municipality that they had been given birth in their homes, although they had been given birth in the KIM area. This enables the enrollment of 16 children in the parent books of the Bujanovac municipalities and the exercise of the right to parental and children's allowances, as well as the publication of personal documents. This is a problem that I am also trying to do through later parliamentary questions to ask the competent authorities of the solution, because there is no solution at the moment. The fact is that in one family living in that area, a father and one son have a residence, they are citizens of this country, and a woman and another child or daughter cannot acquire that right. Members of the same family, narrow members live in Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedji, and not all citizens. This country doesn't recognise their citizenship, it doesn't give them a place to live. On this basis, no documents, no ID, no travel documents can be obtained. The company is now initiating a court case, in the direction that certain families for their children have exercised the right to a child's allowance, the right to these documents, the procedure against the doctor, the head of a health care institution, is being initiated. I think this situation is absolutely abnormal. I'm looking for urgent solutions. And in the previous discussion when we talked about the rebalancing problems, I said that these life issues cannot be solved first by administrative measures only by the MUP, they cannot be solved only by repressive measures and such indictments and penalties that the court should now impose in this order, because it is a broader problem concerning the period from 1999 to 2001, when there have been armed conflicts in this area and, ultimately, it has been officially declared a state of emergency and war. These problems are being dragged from that time and then there are other problems – non-recognition of documents issued in Kosovo's territory. It's a pension fund problem now, too. And I've run it twice here. Life goes, people die, and they can't exercise their basic human rights to retirement, child support and documents. I ask that this issue be clarified, I ask both the Ministry of Justice and the entire government to deal with this issue more seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47365	Thank you. Before I give my word to the next registered speaker, because of the laps, another apology, just to repeat on the basis of article 87 of our work today, after the debate on the 12th agenda, the 13th item of the agenda will be opened after the discussion under Article 286. At 1400 hours, a debate will be opened in search of the details of the points on which we have completed a joint principled single search. From 16:00 to 19.00 hours will be held a session of Parliament's questions, and after 19.00 hours we will continue the search in detail on the points on which we have completed a joint principled and unique search. National MP Nebojsa Rangelovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47366	Dear Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, I would like to ask Prime Minister Cvetkovic and Minister Ciplic about the formation of national councils, specifically the National Council of Bosniaks. I would first like to ask this question as a citizen and an MP, then as a member of the Legislative Committee of this Parliament and finally as a professor of Law School. In all these qualities, I can only express my surprise for the government's actions and the minister's authority, because their actions are not only defiant to legal standards, but defiance of common sense. To remind you, after the election for national councils, there was no problem in forming any national council, except for the National Council of Bosniaks. Apparently, the government did not like the proportion, i.e. the ratio of the strengths of the elected candidates after the elections, and then the government opened a vicious cycle of informality or delaying the formation of the national council and the accompanying authorities. It was not enough for the government that the authorities of this state, elected in this parliament, have found all the anomalies in this process. The Commissioner for Equality has made clear discrimination in the process of electing and forming the National Council of Bosniaks, and the Citizens' Protector, as well as the Commissioner for Free Access to Information, which has even filed a criminal application for falsifying entries in a special list. That wasn't enough for the government and Minister Chiplic. The procedure was continued by seeking a reason not to form advice in such a composition. We have now come to announce to the Legislative Committee a request for interpretation of Article 98. A law that regulates the process of forming elections and forming national councils, as the government seems to have no other way out. I would like to remind myself that this bill, as well as the whole law, is explicitly clear, that there is no need for any interpretation, and that those who wish to reach for the possible possibility of activating the blank resignations should remember what decision the Constitutional Court has made and what European standards are. That is why I will specifically formulate the question – why is the formation of Bosniak and accompanying bodies' advice delayed? Why does the government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent ministry have double standards when forming the National Council of Bosniaks or will we realise that there are first and second categories of Bosniaks for the Serbian government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47367	The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47368	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask Minister of Agriculture Sashi Dragina and the Prime Minister, if he is still Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic. Two weeks ago in Serbia, a national vaccination of wild animals against rabies began for the first time. This activity was paid by the EU. It is okay, given that Serbia has been having major problems with the rabies of wild animals over the last few years, especially foxes, and that domestic animals, which has been happening in that chain, can still be threatened, and that a rich infection can also be transmitted to people. What is controversial throughout this activity is the fact that none of the authorities, not one of them, and the first one is the Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry, and the Minister of the same ministry Mr. Sasa Dragin, none of them have reported to the public, no public has warned about the activity that follows and will follow for the next five years, no one has explained that this will happen, what is the dynamics of business and no one has explained to the public whether there is a danger to the health of Serbian citizens and their children, and it is not negligible, since this activity is mainly happening in rural areas, or domestic animal health. What's most important, and what the citizens should know, is the bait, or vaccine that's in that bait, that's being thrown out of the plane, safe, can it endanger the health of the citizens and is it dangerous to the health of the citizens? Experts warn that the most important thing in this activity, in this vaccine, is that citizens are familiar with the facts that will take place in connection with this vaccination. They especially need to be familiar with precautions, which is what this activity lacks. A team before the air campaign will be conducted for five years in the territory of all Serbia, as the whole of Serbia has had problems with the rabies of wild animals over the past few years, especially activities related to central Serbia, which had the most problems. The activity will take five years. There will be baits every 250 meters from the plane and it would be desirable for citizens to know something about it, such as, say, on the Ministry of Agriculture website, if this is the way of notification, they say research is that only half of Serbian citizens can view the Ministry of Agriculture website, only so many of them have computers, and I don't believe that those who are particularly in contact with this activity, such as people living in rural areas, are looking exclusively at the Ministry of Agriculture site. So, this notice stands – in case of contact with bait, vaccine, wash your hands immediately with warm water and soap and consult your doctor. Experts further warn citizens not to touch, turn and move the bait vaccines. Why are Serbian citizens not familiar with the fact that this activity is being carried out on their territory? Why aren't they familiar with precautions for humans and for domestic animals? It is very important, why are they not familiar with the fact that these precautions are needed? In other words, wasn't it necessary, before the act of vaccination, to conduct the education of the population, to visit schools and introduce children to what follows and how they should behave when they find the vaccine, wasn't it necessary, except on the website, something small and on television to say, start a media campaign, make shows, videos, flyers? My question about the Minister of Agriculture and the Prime Minister is – who decided that Serbian citizens should not know how to protect their children, their health and their domestic animals? On the basis of which parameters did he decide that Serbian citizens should not be familiar with the facts relating to the vaccination activity itself and that on the other hand, the vaccination of wild animals succeeds? What I asked actually assures me is that this government is so irresponsible that there is absolutely no need to warn its citizens, even what can contribute to the improvement in Serbia. So I ask that the Minister of Agriculture, who meddles in his business, answer this question, and especially the Prime Minister who, unfortunately, is all of us, is who he is, and he is responsible for the lives and health of citizens in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47369	The word has a letter from the Prophet of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47370	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, an expert team helping to prepare the defence of Vojislav Seselj on September 20th, requested the file of a criminal case against the former military court where the defendant was Aleksandar Vasiljevic. We sought this file through the Office for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal and after a dozen interventions yesterday, instead of the case file, we received a reply from this office informing us that the Ministry of Defence, which we found to be the Ministry of Lies, found and felt that our request should not be satisfied because the smart Sutanovac had concluded, as it says in this letter from the Office, that the data from this case could not be used in the defence procedure of Dr Vojislav Seselj. The answer further states that no document in the requested file contains data that could be used. No information on the problems and developments concerning the indictment against Vojislav Seselj has been found in the file in question, etc. So it's just amazing that Sutanovac allowed him to assess whether there was a file and whether any document was necessary to help prepare the defence of Vojislav Seselj and Vojislav Seselj for his defence and that he allowed himself to be the one to assess how Vojislav Seselj would conject his defense. Perhaps Sutanovac does not know that Aleksandar Vasiljevic was a false witness in several proceedings before The Hague tribunal. He was a false witness in proceedings against Slobodan Milosevic, against a group of Serbs accused of crimes in Kosovo and Metohija, so-called. Werewolves three accused of war crimes in Ovcara. Or maybe Sutanovac doesn't know that The Hague prosecutor's office is in every way trying to charge Vojislav Seselj with and prove that his association is a joint criminal enterprise, but it is more likely and we are confident that Sutanovac knows all this but that, as so far, he is trying to help The Hague tribunal, of course not in the interest of Serbian citizens Vojislav Seselj but in the interest of those who run The Hague tribunal. We also met and introduced the public to the role of Dragan Sutanovac when it came to the assassination of Vojislav Seselj in the tribunal, and we did not get an answer on that subject from the regime's authorities. I remind you that Aleksandar Vassiljevic has been known to the general public since the time he robbed the Vukovar bank and moved the money from Vukovar into the sacks, and has become active again these days by being called for camps in Stajic and Sremska Mitrovica. Our question is why is the regime protecting Aleksandar Vasiljevic? Why did the resistance Homen immediately run on TV and say that now is not the time to talk about these camps and about Alexander Vasiljevic? Why does the regime think it's not the time for war crimes to investigate war crimes? Do you know that war crimes don't go out of date and it's always about that time? Gentlemen of the regime, you are asking that in addition to your relationship with The Hague tribunal and the Serbs indicted in The Hague tribunal to surrender to you General Mladic, you are offering a reward to someone who would betray the general. You bring mercenaries, bounty hunters, bounty hunters, and then a few days ago a foreign mercenary Tomislav Nikolic appears, who says he would and will hand General Mladic to The Hague tribunal. Every day we boast in the media how he will do it, as our people would say – what is he ashamed of, Nikolic is proud of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47371	Do any of the other authorised representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups respond to the word that they exercise their right under Article 286? The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? (No) Since none of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups are answering for a word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Borislav Pelevic, Miroslav Markicevic and Dejan Radenkovic. We move to the 13th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia (single Search)) You have received a proposal for a decision submitted by MP Suzana Grubjesic, president of Parliament Group G 17 plus (number 02-2795/10 of 2 November 2010). Before the search opens, I remind you that according to Article 192 and Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups of MPs by a proportion of the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, and that is: Parliament group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; SRS parliamentary group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group G17 Plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; MEP group SPS - 18 minutes; MP group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; MP group Nova Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; parliamentary group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I would like to inform you that on this agenda, the SRS parliamentary group will represent MP Zoran Krasic. If any more parliamentary groups make a decision on an authorised representative, please inform us that we could inform the National Assembly. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the promoter, MP Susana Grubjesic, president of the G 17 Plus parliamentary group, want a word? (No) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want the word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47372	Mrs. Comic, at first I would like to give some information, information that can help with today's debate. All I can say about this item of the agenda is the principle of nature, so MPs whose names are contained in the proposal for this decision shouldn't take anything bad into account in my words, because today's debate doesn't apply to any of the MPs. The G17 Plus MP group has the right, as well as all other parliamentary groups, relatively to the election results, to humanise, to determine who will be a member of the National Assembly's working bodies on behalf of the parliamentary group, but I think this is a good example to see where all the parliamentary groups are wrong. I would ask you, Mrs. Comic, to take another look at this motion for a decision with the secretary. First and foremost, it cannot be sought on the basis of Article 23. Rules of Procedure, this. This is required on the basis of Article 45. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Of course, this doesn't apply to the parliamentary group, that's what all the parliamentary groups do, but the service has to warn, if you stick to the Rules of Procedure and respect for something that's regulation. That's the first thing. Secondly, this decision is made on the basis of Article 45. The Rules of Procedure, not on the basis of Article 24, as set out in the proposal for this decision. Articles 23, 24 are spent on a constitutional session of the National Assembly, and this change is done, if I may say so, under these provisions. Let me immediately draw your attention that Article 297 is the last member of the Rules of Procedure and did not cover Article 45, but from Articles 46 to 67. The Rules of Procedure, given that there is also this transitional period until the constitution of a new calling. So this is a suggestion from the service to keep in mind in the future that when the Rules of Procedure is already applied, the Rules of Procedure should be applied. Furthermore, this decision should not be a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia board, but should be a decision to suspend the member's duties, since we now lack deputies and a new member's choice. It's purely formal-law shortages of this. Let me say, this was done by another parliamentary group in the last session, in a similar way, and I assume that it is a copying, etc., so this is not a grudge to the parliamentary groups, but simply a warning to the service that the Rules of Procedure is looking for something different. But well, it's a theme for you now and you think and watch how you're gonna fix it. This theme when forming or making changes in the working bodies of the National Assembly is an ideal opportunity for us to actually talk about what political life is like in the Republic of Serbia in the part where this political life is realized in the National Assembly. Of course, today’s theme is not the names and last names of MPs, but rather what is regulated by the Rules of Procedure as part of the work of the Committee of the National Assembly. I've got to get my discussion down within what's prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, and I'm gonna try not to get out of that box. The question really arises – is the scope of the working bodies of the National Assembly important and what is the scope of the National Assembly as an organ in these conditions? It's clear to the citizens, it's important that he has 126, so the sparrow will be the falcon. It's no problem to make. Does the National Assembly exercise its constitutional authority? He's doing it in the part where laws are passed in a hurry. What's fast, it's short, you know, and that's our saying. Here, at today's session, we have a united discussion and a merger of incompatible things. What does the rebalancing law have to do with amending the law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing? It's no big deal. But apparently, the National Assembly at that speed works by making noises about something to keep it quiet. How long? To some new occasion when it will open or blow up that topic. Since we are now on the subject of the Committee's agenda as working bodies, we must say whether these working bodies can meet what is prescribed by the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. I mean, technically, I can. But we in the working bodies have a mirrored situation that exists in the plenary sessions of the National Assembly. We can't blame the messengers. Seems a little weird. Why? Because if there is a principle in the Assembly of the parliamentary majority, it is enough to secure the quorum and it is enough to get to 126 in the voting day, why should they do something different at the working-body sessions? There's no need. A team before working-body sessions and we don't have public attention, sometimes some subject that gets away, and as a rule that's the subject that needs to be on the opposite side of the main topic in the Assembly. That's why we've got that board in this hallway, we've got these reporters that get up around half past ten, and when we're talking about ecology here, they're flying you over here and they're asking you some questions about something that might be on the agenda in six months. In this media hall, the public focuses on some other issues that are absolutely secondary to the main topic that has led to the National Assembly. So it's important now that MPs smoke, and it doesn't matter at all whether a good law is about preventing money laundering and financing terrorism. We probably have five amendments for that law, which is ten minutes, and in principle, some parliamentary groups probably used two minutes to show it, because it's a dominant topic on rebalancing. It's a similar situation with the law on banks, the situation with these amendments to the Agency's Law. So it's being pushed under the carpet, something that the media allegedly says is of interest to the public. Can we exercise some control over the government? We can't. Since 2002, no final budget accounts have been adopted in the National Assembly. It wasn't even the subject, it wasn't even on the agenda. Remember, on the agenda there was no final budget bill law. Choose which year you want in 2002, 2003, 2007, 2008, you don't have to choose 2009 because it hasn't arrived yet. Then the question arises in these changes in the compositions of the working bodies - what do the parliamentary groups want to achieve? To fill out the quota. I know what the reason for the G17 plus is, they've simply changed some who have other obligations, and they're MPs, so they don't want to be the reason why there's no quorum for the work of some committees. That's correct. Let me tell you, it has never been a dispute when voting on the compositions of working bodies because there is a ratio that is promoted as a parliamentary principle, as well as a division of certain functions in the working body, where the simple principle applies that no party enters into the staffing of another party proposing its people. That's what needs to be preserved. However, so many parliamentary principles were in the National Assembly, and they were trampled. These parliamentary principles depend on the current interests of some. For example, what applies to some parties in power in the Assembly does not apply to opposition parties, that documentation that passes as acceptable and sufficient for party authorities. When the same documentation appears, some opposition parties are changing the rules. Then you know for yourself, whether it's a true statement of will, whether he brought a memo, whether it was delivered by mail, whether it was this, whether the dove writer flew over the National Assembly. So something always changes. I remind you that a few years ago it was a top democratic principle that those in power should secure the quorum, and then the MPs of the Democratic Party, who was then in opposition, would assess whether they would enter to work or not. Unless there's a quorum, they're not coming in. Now we say it's a principle, let's apply it, damn it, it doesn't apply anymore, it's changed. Democracy was in 1991, the possibility of hearing another alternative, and then democracy was respecting the form. As we heard a few months ago from ideologists, he said - democracy, that's the majority. You see how the genesis of the same concept goes. Then he gets some of his synonyms that are contrary to something called good parliamentary practice. I also want SRS MPs to open the topic, to see how many MPs contribute to the violation of the reputation of the National Assembly and how much they contribute to the violation of the importance of the working bodies of the National Assembly. Let me tell you right now, they're making a lot of contributions. Why do they make a lot of contributions? Because they agree and confirm each other's principles, that everything depends on the will of one man. If he says to pay compensation for using building land and heating, the budget rebalancing will be filled with these things, to change it. If he shuts up, everybody's gonna shut up, 'cause it's some political interest. I am fully aware of the fact that I cannot challenge MPs' initiatives in other parliamentary groups, especially in parliamentary groups that make up power. The plot was done, completely clear. I'm trying to stamp that way, to warn the citizens as sovereigns to take care of what they're doing. When they make a mistake, they agree to those things. There's a time when we can't agree, because we're falling apart, we're hovering over an ambience, and in an hour, we can all crash down. There is the role of MPs as citizens to raise their voice on behalf of citizens. That voice should only be based on the truth and nothing more. That's enough for a start. That we just didn't all pretend we weren't notified, or we didn't hear, or we didn't know. That's impossible today. No more naive. If they're naive, they don't belong in this room. The naive must not enter this room. If they get into this room, the state goes down. Here they have to be vispres, politically gifted, people who don't deal with the dreary reality, but every day in every respect, they're making more progress towards the truth and towards justice. We have a situation to tolerate, so when someone gets hurt personally, they call for justice. So when he gets hit by a personal interest, he gets called to justice. It's nothing new, it happens to all citizens, as well as to those who tolerate quitting, so they won't raise their voice, and when it comes they say wrong. In his case, he felt injustice, and in the case of his neighbor, neighbor, or friend, he had no opportunity to see injustice being carried out. It is similar in the congregation. If you'll excuse me, I would like to open another topic that is also important, and it concerns the political life and opportunities that are happening in the National Assembly. With such a relationship, this country has come into a situation where oligarchs, rich people, and those who have a lot of money, and you know that when someone's damn rich, it probably didn't become an honest way. We've all become hostages of these rich people. They can finance both the government and the opposition, and the existing power and future power, and the existing opposition and the future opposition. They don't care who sits in what position, he pays for it. I'll remind you that somewhere in December 2006, some of those commissions made a report, and she talked to people who were most important to the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In the report he left, and he is Article 102(2). Representatives of the commission have written down, the member must exist in Serbia, because there is some Bogoljub Karic who is able to buy mandates. He, remember, had a parliamentary group that year even though he did not participate in the elections. Don't you think it's already something familiar that's going on in this building, and a little bit, almost every two months we hear – angry opponents become associates. That match plays with everyone, it just raises the question of connective tissue within the parties. What is the connective tissue in some parties, so there are no later smart people who realize that their ideology is no longer the one, but another? We come to the answer – money. Money as universal glue, as a measure for everyone. You've got money, you're the most beautiful, you're the smartest, you're the most desirable, and the whole state has become a hostage of that kind and that kind of policy. Have the conditions changed since 2006? No, they're not. But in 2006, those foreign friends of yours gave you support, because they were confronted and they realized there was a problem buying. Now that they have separated the bag to buy some, they now press you and say: the MP is the owner of the mandate. If it hadn't been for that Djoke from Prcilovica, no one would have known about a party that's been in existence for 20 years. Everything changes. To avoid misreading this discussion and this introduction, interpret it the same way as last year when I told you about judicial reform. Then I used my friend Bosko Ristic, so I said, whatever he gets, it drys up. You were smiling. I think I'm being quoted by some strangers in a report. I think they're quoting me. You take care, everything can happen, but you can't endanger the state and you can't endanger the vital interests of our neighbors, I don't have to tell you about the people, our neighbors, our friends, because when we get out of this room or when we don't do this job anymore, I guess we'd have to lift those heads and walk around, watch those people that we have to see every day, that we can say good day, that we can say goodbye to these people, and don't God forbid it happens, and it seems to me that they're going to run off the street in six months, and convince their friends and neighbors that they're not exactly members of that party. Thank you, Mrs. Comic. I hope I haven't broken anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47373	Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that they are in accordance with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of the search, the application for a word, and with the order of the MPs, submitted by one parliamentary group, the SRS parliamentary group. We move to part of the session on the debate with the order of MPs, and according to reports, in a single search on the proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The first registered speaker is the MP of the people, Srboljub Zivanovic, and after him, the MP of the people, Milorad Krstin. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic is not in the O.R. National MP Milorad Krstin, followed by MP Bojan Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47374	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will take the opportunity, given that we have a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to point out the work of some committees, in fact, of a committee where I am a member, which is the Committee on Agriculture. I always avoid saying how much Milorad Krstin is in the Serbian parliament, but this time I will have to say, in order for the public to know how much I am a member of the Committee on Agriculture. This is my fourth term and I closely follow and I am a member of the Committee on Agriculture, including in times, unfortunately, when Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic was also an MP and a member of the Committee on Agriculture, but this has never been the case. Why am I saying this? I am speaking because we are chaired by the Committee on Agriculture, Zoran Masic, a man who is from some non-existent political party, some Serbian foreign party, simply amazing that you from the ruling coalition have allowed this party in the Committee on Agriculture to have its own president, to have a chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and two other members, with only 21 MPs here in this room or not, and the SRS has only two representatives and members of the Committee on Agriculture. It seems a very important member, because if these two members are not here or we are not here and we do not want to give that majority, this Agriculture Committee often cannot be ambushed and cannot make decisions or consider the proposals of the agricultural domain. Speaking to my colleagues, I have come to the conclusion that they will not come because Zoran Masic, a man who gives himself so much freedom that he simply looks forward to one of the MPs who are not members of the Committee, who come to the Committee, that he can share their pucks, share their warnings, i.e. to take away their personal income by removing them from the Committee or by giving them reminders. It does not matter to him to put agriculture first as shown in this budget rebalancing, i.e. in the future 2011 budget because agriculture is the only branch of agriculture that has brought a surplus of close to a billion... (President: National MP, with full understanding that the topic is broad, though when it comes to the Committee's work and your position on what problems are in agriculture, this is not a topic of agenda. So it's about committees, so please, about the agenda. ) I'm talking about the committee where I'm a member and where I'm not allowed, I want to point out to the public, that it's how the Committee should work. I don't know what I should or should turn to to suggest that this committee is not doing what it says the Committee should do – to discuss a subject that is very important, to schedule before harvest, to bring up the problems of harvest, whether they were before wheat harvest, whether they were before the harvest of the sunflower... (President: People's MP, I warn you, and you and I know what the obligation is to speak about the agenda. It is a completely free and stylish and creative opportunity for every MP to give the agenda point that is currently in progress, but you have moved away, or you are currently speaking without any connection to the agenda theme, and I warn you that you respect the provision of a member who prescribes that we are talking about the agenda. I really don't know, Madam Chairman, what should be one MP who has been in this House for four terms, to whom he should address and point out the failures of the president of a committee and of a very important committee in this Republic Parliament, where I have presented the facts which makes me think he deserves this item of the agenda, without insulting anyone, without violating the Rules of Procedure or anything, but just to let me say that this committee should have a regular session, that we had one visit to our brothers and sisters from Republika Srpska a year ago and that we had to return that visit.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47375	People's MP, you're saying that for the fourth time in the Assembly, so the fourth term, then that claim means that you know the Rules of Procedure quite well. The proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the committee of the authorising promoter is currently on the agenda. I warned you once already that your views and objections to the work of other committees or your views and remarks on problems in sectoral policy dealing with some other committee are beyond the topic of the agenda. Please, on the subject of the agenda, in the way I'm sure you can, as an MP, imitate a member who implies an obligation to talk about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47376	I think I've made my opinion clear enough what I want to talk about and what the problems I should be giving you, and when it comes to committees. I can't understand why I can't talk about that subject, but you're just interrupting me to take my word out like every time or to show me that I don't respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47377	People's MP, before I give you the measure to which I am in charge of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am obliged, for the sake of the public, to say that you are not allowed to deceive the public, nor is your word taken from you, nor is anything forbidden to you. The subject of the agenda is the decision on amendments to the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, namely: the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Local Self-Government, the Committee on Poverty Reduction, the Committee on Gender Equality and the Committee on Education. Your intention to believe that you have the right to speak about your position on the work of the Committee on Agriculture or to speak about your position on what kind of problems there are in the agriculture sector cannot be without your additional effort on the agenda. Please continue your discussion, but including at least a small topic of the agenda we are currently discussing.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47378	I'm sorry, but you really don't want to allow that, since this is about G17 plus, who put this as a part of the agenda, to say something as an MP from the ranks of the SRS, where they make up 78 MPs, where we don't have the right to their chairman of the Committee, which belongs to us, that we don't have the right, but they have 21 MPs with three members of the Committee and president, and we have so many Members of the Committee on Agriculture. Is that scary, maybe? Have I offended or violated someone or have I indicated that there is an injustice against the strongest political party on Serbia's political scene? Is that maybe my fault because I'm saying it? If G17 plus can express his views, putting as a point of the agenda, because it is in the government, I don't know why I couldn't bring up with that point of the agenda and the problems affecting agriculture, the farmers of the Serbian citizens who live out of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47379	That's why, People's MP, which is not the issue of the agenda that troubles citizens. If you, as a MP, think that you are the only one who has the right to violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which obliges us all to observe the agenda, then I must say that you are wrong, or you are wrong. Anything that bothers you can, but at other points of the agenda. Since it is my obligation to help MPs to take care of the agenda, today at 4:00 a.m. is a session of parliamentary issues, where every MP has the right to ask a question he believes the government will know or won't be able to, to help make everything quieter. Last time I warn you, you're talking about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47380	I will address only one more sentence, which is that the theme of agriculture is present every day in this congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47381	Eight minutes have been used by the MP's group, with my apology to the other present, which is not the measure to which I am obliged under Article 103, which is to give the measure of warning to the MP who feels that he has the right and that freedom of speech is to promote the violation of the Rules of Procedure and the promotion of the ignorance of the Rules of Procedure during the session. My apologies. National MP Bojan Mladenovic has a word, followed by MP Borislav Prelic. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic, who was not in the hall, will get a word in the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47382	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, citizens of Serbia, committees are very important permanent working bodies that are considering bill proposals and other acts, considering the state of policy by the government of the Republic of Serbia, monitoring law enforcement and considering a number of other issues in the responsibilities of the National Assembly. The Committee's work itself is of paramount importance. It is unacceptable not to hold board sessions because the ruling majority cannot or cannot provide quorum. Members of the committee shall be elected on a proposal from the parliamentary groups by a proportionate number of MPs, so that the parties that make up the majority in parliament have a majority in the committees, as set out in Article 23. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the greatest responsibility if the parliament or committee cannot work because of their failure to attend the sittings are exactly what they are. So the party needs to change those board members who do not meet their obligation. In Article 25. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly say that the first session of the committee is called by the president of the National Assembly, so I ask why the president of the National Assembly, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, has never called on the Committee on Economic Reforms. Certainly for the work of this committee and how there is a need, and that is precisely why it is necessary for someone to explain why this committee has never been established? It is intended for all committees to work, to meet, to give good, quality, important and adequate proposals to address certain problems. All those who are holding back the work of the board are doing some kind of damage and their shift, i.e. The replacement is necessary and should be done absolutely by all political parties. The ruling majority is the most responsible that so far has done nothing concrete to enable the committee to work, to allow quorum at sessions, because it is known that their MPs are making most of the committees and quorum not dependent on the arrival of other opposition MPs. I am a member of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction and have attended all sessions and participated actively in the work of this committee. We've often had a problem with the quorum. The board is now expanding, an increased number of board members. We had two sessions after that, and they were both very late, because there was a quorum problem again, so they prayed and waited for individual MPs to come, so that they could start working. The big question is whether or not we're going to get anything and anything we're going to achieve by expanding the boards we've had recently. I don't think it's a crucial number of members but their seriousness, responsibility and desire to attend board meetings. What do you get by expanding the board? Absolutely nothing. You could have solved the quorum problem by replacing non-regular board members, who do not attend them, or by intending to attend meetings of those committees whose members are in the next period. Statistics were to be taken out, to analyse the presence of board members, and to publicly state what they are Members of Parliament who do not come at all or who rarely come and propose their shift because they do not participate in the work of their committee. To propose new ones, which would take this obligation seriously, to attend committee sessions and thus enable them to work. When it comes to the Committee on Urbanism and Construction, I hope it will take place soon and discuss construction standards in Serbia. The earthquake in the King certainly requires that the buildings and buildings that are being built must meet certain standards so that they can withstand a certain amount of earthquake as well as a topic that is these days...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47383	People's MP, and I'm asking you about the agenda, with as much freedom as the agenda point means. If I have to tell you once again what committees this is about, I'll be happy to do it, but I have no doubt you know that. Please talk about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47384	Today we have a proposal to replace some MPs as members of the board. I support the replacement of members who do not attend meetings, who create problems and committee sessions cannot be maintained due to the lack of quorum. In this regard, I ask once again what is happening to the Committee on Economic Reforms, because I am a member of this Committee and I have never once again received a call for a session of this Committee, because no constitutional session has ever been held, nor has the chairman of the Committee been elected, nor has his deputy been elected. I must say that only members of the ruling party need to come to the board meeting, as it stands on the website of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, nine members, and five members are MPs from the ZES parliamentary group and one MP to the G17 plus party PUPS. In two years, they couldn't or didn't want to meet. The question arises why this has not been done until today. They may feel that this committee should not exist, that it is functioning, so they have not been meeting for two years or think that Serbia is at an envious level, so the Committee's work is too high and unnecessary. However, the existence of anything, and only on paper, brings no benefit, nothing good, and I don't see the purpose of this kind of action why something that has working conditions never works. As long as things like this are going to happen, too, why MPs are unserious, irresponsible, why they don't come to the meetings of their committees. They must come to them, to be regular, to enable their work, because the committees are very important working bodies that address a number of important issues from the jurisdiction of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47385	Six minutes of MP time was used. The People's Messenger Dobrislav Prelic has the word, and then Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47386	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, here we have today as part of this session of the agenda and this final point where the amendments and additions of the board members are made, and that is quite legitimate, the G 17 plus parliamentary group suggested. I would just like to remind myself of some things, which is how the committee committees of the National Assembly are established, and that, above all, the MPs of the SRS are suspended for the basic right that the Rules of Procedure are imposed, which is how many board members are elected, how many committee members and from which parliamentary groups should be present on committees, how many board presidents and vice presidents of the Committee should have a parliamentary group. I just want to remind the public that the SRS won 78 seats in the last election and that when the committees were established, we were given the chairman of the Administrative Board. We have also received, in a parliamentary agreement with all political parties, board members, however, the ruling majority has knownly denied the SRS as chairman of the Administrative Committee and the chairman of the Defence and Security Committee. I will also remind you that certain committees have not been established either, above all, the Committee on Economic Reforms where the SRS has two proposals, namely Milan Nikolic and Vladan Jeremic, that the Committee on Presentations and Proposals has been established, if I am not wrong a few months ago, and that thousands of demands have arrived in the meantime. The board has begun to work, but certainly you from the ruling majority must provide the majority here and when the session begins, and especially when the vote is, you must have 126 MPs. As our committees meet, given that the ruling majority gives a quorum when they need something, when they need it, and in committees where they chair and where most opposition MPs are on these committees, it happens that the committees do not have a majority and are not allowed to work. Here I think of the Committee on Health and Family, chaired by SRS MP Paja Momchilov, and it is more than clear why it is not easy for this committee to work and work. This is because President Paja Momcilov wanted an emergency session of the Committee because the SRS demanded that the Committee meet and to bring together experts and doctors to prevent the killing of Dr Vojislav Seselj in The Hague tribunal. The direct order was given to Dr Zdravko Mijailovic with the VMA that he should not attend the Committee's session and of course he did not keep it. (President: People's MPs, please on the subject of the agenda. So you can't consider the topic of the agenda the work of other committees or the way you look at the problems in sectoral policies dealing with committees, so I ask you about the agenda topic. I understand absolutely, Mrs. Komic, I just wanted to remind you of our Rules of Procedure, how committees are constructed. I even supported this proposal by the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group, because it is absolutely their legitimate right, that instead of the people who resigned, they are giving their new proposals to the MPs, who came here and even has been here to amend and supplement MPs who have been in parliament for two years. I want to point out that the SRS is, on the basis of the Constitution, legally based on this Rules of Procedure, the right to have a certain number of board members on the basic mandates we won in 2008. That's why we think that many committees and that's one of the reasons why they can't function right now. There are committees that practically do not want to function, because they should, above all, state their position, to directly contact certain resolution ministries, to state, meaning, both their opinion and their position, to assist the ministry in their work. There's a lot of committees that just can't hold sessions because there's no quorum. I want to help you, if you had respected the procedure, that the SRS was allowed to have a number of committee MPs on the basis of the mandates, I am convinced that these committees would function far better and that their work would be safer and better quality and that we would all benefit from it. Here, first of all, I wanted to remind you of another committee, which is the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija. When was the last time that board met? It's just that there's no quorum. We have a transport and communications committee. The current issue, which is one of the key issues currently in the Republic of Serbia, is the sale of Telekom. We had a proposal to include the SRS agenda and our MP Dejan Mirovic, not included in the agenda. The SRS came up with a memo where the Telecom Union signed a contract with Mrs Dragutinovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47387	National MP, I now warn you, therefore, the topic of the agenda is to amend and supplement the board members I quoted as being. As broadly as you wish to discuss, you are free, but the content of the Committee's work and your views on policy in certain sectors cannot be considered this item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47388	All right, Mrs. Comic. Here, if you'll excuse me, a little more. For example, the Sports and Youth Committee, we think that this committee should work far more and that the Sports and Youth Committee should be much more involved in all activities. These are only positive criticisms and this committee is working. We had the opportunity to have our delegation here from our parliament called by the Russian Federation to participate in other parliamentary games a few months ago. I believe you're aware of that. We went along with all the engagements and colleagues of Vuckovic, as chairman of the Committee...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47389	National MP, your experience on the work of the board cannot be considered a subject of the agenda, which is an amendment and addition of the accurately quoted committees of the National Assembly. I'm warning you twice now. I ask you to replace your strategy of discussion during this item of the agenda with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, both you and all the other MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47390	All right, Mrs. Comic, but now I didn't want to criticize the committees so it doesn't turn out that Serbian radicals are just criticizing, I just wanted to commend the work of a committee, let's say the Youth and Sports Committee and say what they are, and I think you should be proud now that our MPs have achieved a good result in the Russian Federation. Since you won't even allow me to commend the participation of our delegation...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47391	Please don't deceive the public. I'm asking you most nicely. So, I forbid you anything. I remind you of your obligation. Your will, however, to say the warning measures during this session, is obviously unconstitutional. There is no larger paradox than having a strategy at the agenda point whose name is Amendment and addition of members of the Committee of the National Assembly, such as that you do nothing but violate the Rules of Procedure with your discussions. Please don't do this.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47392	All right, Mrs. Comic, don't beg me, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47393	Eight minutes and 30 seconds used by the MP's group. The word is a folk letter from Natasa Jovanovic, followed by a folk MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47394	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Grubjesic, I must first address you, since you are the author of this agenda. As chairman of the G 17 Plus parliamentary group, you had absolutely the right to work with us for many years in congregation meetings, and I personally worked with her on several committees. Today we have a replacement, and you have decided, and which is also your legitimate right to concentrate, as I would say, places on some committees by now, already a former colleague, by including some other MPs, as well as a new colleague of Mrs. Elizabeth Paunovic, who I believe will be and how surprises might be, perhaps imagined by the parliament of the Serbian Parliament differently, that the inability of the national representatives to participate in the way that would be necessary, if we are already talking about you fighting, but these are only unfortunately declared values and pure floscule, and Tadic, both you from the DS and your coalition partners, that the Parliament of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is progressing. Twenty years have passed since the renewed multi-party in Serbia and now when I return back, we can see, Mrs. Komic and you have witnessed a time and I have witnessed someone before you in the participation of the parliament, both federal and republican, that MPs have experienced more changes in the restrictive rules and that now working on committees is neither approximately the same nor allowing people's representatives to represent the citizens and to participate in the work of the committee, as was the case in the 1990s. Then what kind of democracy did you fight for? What was this building burned down on October 5th and the coup was made? Which is why you deceived Serbian citizens from election to election and your voters... (President: Please, agenda theme. You'll understand very soon, as a serious woman and as...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47395	People's MPs, I realized that untrue claims, such as coup and all the sentences used, are not the subject of the agenda. I'm asking you about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47396	So, here I am going back to this current time and related to the newly arrived colleague, Mrs Elizabeth, although she has been proposed to work on certain committees, as well as some of her colleagues, will not have the possibility, as we have had years ago, that through the institution of a separate opinion she says at the committee session, because she has been changed, that she disagrees with the position that the committee is taking on a particular matter, will not have the opportunity to speak indefinitely at meetings of the Committee of the National Assembly, because now that time is limited because of the fact that you simply could not be pressured by the SRS, which is the only first and authentic opposition to this regime, to endure more of our criticism from one session to the other committee. You just told some colleagues and Mr. Mladenovic and Mr. Prelic about mentioning some committees that have not been established that they are not on the agenda today. It's only one committee, and you know it very well, Mrs. Komic, the Committee on Economic Reform. Although it is not the subject of this agenda, the committees that are on the agenda today are and how the component and should be one whole if this Committee on Economic Resources is to be set up. On the other hand, as a member of the SRS, I have an exceptional grudge against the ruling coalition and members of the board, primarily the chairmans of the DS, G17 plus and others because they are not using an option which is the only real opportunity for us to face opinions and to take on certain national and national issues – which is co-operation between the board. However, this is happening on the Committee on Foreign Affairs and European Integration, but mostly Mr Moma Markovic, an SRS MP, saying that we do not want in the EU at all and that a growing number of Serbian citizens will be, I am convinced, for such a policy of the SRS, against the EU, that it is very often known, and very argumentative, along with other colleagues, that Kacina, who is proudly acting when he comes here, and deger and others, is giving a lecture and says what Serbia's torments are now under such a stick and under such EU directives. As for the Committee on Poverty Reduction and Local Self-Government, I will talk first about this for poverty reduction. She had a good idea, and you know it, and I know it, because in the working group that regulates the rights of the child, and that committee still has to, in the right sense, exist from the future calling, so, colleague Stojanović Plassic, who morally and honorably acted, resigned as an MP who went to another post, unlike those who stole the mandates of the SRS, headed by Tomislav Nikolic and who had neither honour nor morals, unlike counterpart Stojanović Plassic and, unlike Mr Slobodan Maraš, we didn't have to ask our co-worker, Judith Popovic, why Maraš resigned. He probably doesn't agree with the policy anymore, or he has other plans, as did counterpart Stojanovic Plassic, but he was returned to the election list he was elected from. Isn't that normal and isn't that supposed to be said goodbye? Of course it is. But we will here for the rest of this term to condemn the policies of DS and Boris Tadic and all of you who are responsible here, including, above all, the chairman of the Administrative Committee, Mr Konstantinovic. Namely, the blank resignations held by the SRS and which we have in accordance with Article 102(2). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because it says the MP is "free to entrust his mandate to the election list or political party". The SRS as the largest opposition party to win citizens' trust and the SRS electoral list – Dr Vojislav Seselj is now in a demoral position compared to counterpart Susan Grubjesic. Didn't you have the same proposals as the president of the SRS parliamentary group, which he just tried to talk to one of his colleagues about, to get a seat that now rightly requires a G17 parliamentary group? I must say that Mrs Susana Grubjesic supported us in this and her MP group, but that was not enough within the ruling coalition because there was a revote and blanco resignations which were and which were still owned by the SRS do not apply to you, and it is already known to all Serbia that neither Nikolic, nor Vukic, nor this apostate group of them have any honour or morals. We cannot replace, as Susana Grubjesic does today, the people on these committees. And we have a new candidate for committees, and for local self-government, and for economic relations and development, and for the Committee on Gender Equality and the Committee on Education. There's some phantoms sitting there, people who aren't even MPs. Where are they chosen? What election list? Wasn't it normal to think about it? That's what counterpart Krasic was talking about at the beginning, when the first attempt he made, so the first tycoon MPs appeared in 2006, who more remembers that unfortunate person's name than Bogoljub Karic? When Miskovic flew in, Cane Frog and the rest of the tycoon click with their money to pay Nikolic and Vukic, it should have been a signal for you to change the Rules of Procedure at the same time. But no, it was a joint project that's going to blow your brains out. Because they are now bigger Europeans and bigger Euronists and fanatics than yourselves. You were supposed to change the Rules of Procedure, but not by taking away the rights of the people's representatives, not by giving out opinions, by limiting time, but by harmonising with the Law on Elections. In that regard, RIK declared that election list, the SRS election list – Dr Vojislav Seselj received 78 mandates, namely over a million and 100,000 trusts of Serbian citizens in the May 11th elections and when you saw it, that your goal was to develop democracy and respect the electoral will of citizens, to change the Rules of Procedure and to keep it in line with the electoral lists. You remember yourself, Mrs. Kolundzija, and you, too, Mrs. Komic, were then first elected after that famous October 5th vice president of the National Assembly, the SRS did not want to participate in the committee's work. For what? Because you thought that one force of 176 DOS MPs could do whatever they wanted, trample on the electoral will of citizens who were less for the SRS at the time, but later, as we set out to expose both mafia affairs and to talk about that Western policy that led you to a bad government, confidence grew in 2002, and Dr Vojislav Seselj, as a candidate for Serbia's president, received 1,080,000 votes in the presidential elections. Why didn't we want to take part in the work of the board? You have trampled on the election will of the citizens and when we were 23, after 5 October, you denied us a seat on the boards, including the seats of the president. Was that right? There was just a phone call later. Don't tell me it didn't, because we've had to say it more than once in our first days of touch power and keep insisting on it. The agreement that was preliminaryly made when the constitution of the coercion was carried out is not respected. We're not given either presidential or alternate seats, as it should be by reciprocity. We now have a situation to sit here for some who give you quorum because this Tabakovic, who took the mandate of the SRS, and this Bečić, her party or whatever they call that group, is certainly not advanced in any way because they only work for themselves and for their own pocket, but they give a quorum on the Finance Committee. You're witnessing it. Why would they give you quorum if you're so capable? You wanted and you were able to change the Rules of Procedure and now you have 17 members and you have faster to replace your board members, and they want to make contact with you, they are offered to you for future co-operation, and all because they get such a warrant from the same mentors that you have. (President: People's MPs, please speak with respect about everyone else. I end up with time left for fellow Serbian radicals. This is indeed the collapse of parliament and of all democratic postulates for which everyone who is elected is the representative of the people to fight. Never, as much as you disagree with an SRS policy that has an ever-increasing foothold among Serbian citizens, and our messages... Don't react like that, Mrs. Kolundjia, because only when they're in the MPs' benches... (President: Please, no direct address. It's strictly forbidden by the Rules of Procedure. And the pitching is forbidden, you know. Then you'll have to react when I get hit.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47397	People's MPs, please don't remind me for all of us that throwing is forbidden. Since at this point, seven MPs from your parliamentary group, three MPs from the first, second and third wings could be under threat. So I ask you to do your job, the work of the MP, and let me do my job.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47398	Thank you for that warning. I thank my fellow Serbian radicals, who have always supported me from the parliamentary benches for this discussion, which is also appropriate to the Rules of Procedure, but unfortunately it is not the time that can bring progress and development to Serbia, because under this authority and with such treatment of the opposition and violation of the elementary norms and the Constitution and the law and above all, by taking the mandates we received in the elections, as a list, we cannot expect anything better. We're going to fight for a better time, so I'm sending such messages to the Serbian voters and I'm going to end up with other colleagues, not to mention the name of my colleague, because as you said, it's forbidden to the Rules of Procedure, and Serbia is waiting for Seselj and we will continue to fight in the way he taught us and how we have established these democratic rules, which are respected everywhere in every normal and orderly state, but unfortunately not in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47399	Thirteen minutes and 30 seconds used by the MPs' group. The word has been made by the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic. After that, the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47400	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is a very important topic, as far as the work of the Assembly committees is concerned. I expected a larger discussion, a more fruitful paper, that is, a work that would be directed towards the work of the Republic of Parliament. As chairman of the Committee on Science and Technological Development, I must sincerely say that this committee held over 35 sessions and that perhaps at two sessions, it had no quorum, which shows that it was too much about the seriousness of the work of science and research, which shows the seriousness of all the topics that were present on the Committee on Science and Technological Development. All those in the ministries we called, I must say that they responded to the call, and they were normally trying to answer all those questions that we asked them, in order to be able to direct all these questions towards the work of the Republic Parliament. I am also a member of the Traffic Committee, where you well know the importance of this committee, especially when certain traffic laws are passed, where we all have said so, and supported that legal platform, which should have given one safety to traffic participants. We also wanted to improve the work on infrastructure and on road infrastructure, rail infrastructure, air transport, and it was actually giving a special intonation again, one big, say, weight of the work of these committees. But what is very important, what you are always saying, you warn us to return to the agenda, are in fact the committees in which I was present as an MP, also wanting to improve the work of these committees, i.e. to bring problems from a comprehensive environment where I come from, and also from meeting with citizens, where I somehow felt that these problems on committees could be brought forward, or that this could be re-focused and directed towards the Republic Parliament. It's well known, these are environmental committees and spatial planning. You know, you said that well, just when the Minister of Ecology and Spatial Planning was present here, about the problem of spatial planning, it is today one big problem in Serbia and perhaps one of the biggest...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47401	National MP, agenda theme, sectoral policies dealing with committees cannot be the topic of the agenda item, which deals with the amendments and additions of committee members. So your opinion or even data from sectoral policies can't be a topic of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47402	So you've also directed that work, let me say, to that board, but you know that the problem with the work of certain committees was because of the inability to maintain, because there was no quorum. I ask you, as chairman of this body, and as vice-president of the Assembly, I think that the Assembly should have discussed the weight of the work of these committees, whether those who do not come to these committees, who do not give the quorum, or their presence, do not help the work of the committee, whether these committee presidents who have not called on these committees, were they supposed to be removed or are you probably waiting for time, or are you also responsible for certain problems in Serbia today not being discussed? You keep saying that no one has strayed from the subject, and on these committees you want to discuss, or discuss, the very important problems of citizenship, major problems and topics that should be found on the agenda in the Assembly. That's why I think, you see, despite the fact that there has been a fill-in in certain committees, the Committee on Science and Technological Development has not had a problem with the quorum, and I must honestly say that the choice of people on these committees has been very high-quality, because this committee has been discussing the subject. You say what the topics were and whether we should discuss these topics, we are about topics, because we wanted to call on the Ministry of Finance in one place, and the Ministry of Ecology and Spatial Planning and the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, to assist or give a guideline or one real picture, that certain ministries, especially now in the phase of budget preparation, should be able to provide more resources for certain ministries to function. These are questions, these are topics we should discuss on committees. We can't discuss on committees about someone else or some high policy that doesn't matter at some point or doesn't matter. We are discussing or discussing co-operation with other scientific institutes outside Serbia in order...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47403	People's MP, I now warn you, the topic of the agenda is to amend and supplement the board members, and I ask you that, if you have failed to hear, the topic of the agenda cannot be considered problems, your views or anything from sectoral policies that committees deal with. Our agenda is a change and addition of members, so I'd like to ask you about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47404	Thank you. I believe that certain committee presidents, who are unable to organise or organise committees, should have been here today to discuss the matter, or whatever you say, to be the subject of the agenda, to see...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47405	People's MP, but it's not about the agenda. The topic of the agenda, to which we are obliged, I should remind Members, who in the discussion turned and MPs to read the material of the amendments and additions of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with style and creativity, as well as your colleagues, on the subject, with comments on the work of the Committee, of course it is allowed. Content of the Committee's work, sectoral policies are not a topic of agenda. I warn you to stick to the agenda theme. With an apology for the next interruption, or notice that I am giving to the MPs, the session of the Finance Committee continues at 11:45 p.m. in Hall Two, so I ask the members of the Committee to attend. People's MP, I apologize for giving this notice during your discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47406	Can I go on? Thank you. The fullness of the board must be adequate, that is, by many means, normal, and by the weight of the work of the Assembly Committee... You're distracting me, so I can't concentrate on your interruptions, so you won't let me talk about a subject that's on the agenda, or that's what I think is very important. It's probably a lot of people around here are funny and a lot of people can laugh, but, well, I'm almost done with one of my stories. Time's been going slow for 10 years. In Serbia today, recycled politicians who rule this country are present, and I believe that these committees that are on the agenda today are also trying to devalue the values of the work and of this assembly, and possibly the work of this most important legislative body, but surely know that Professor Vojislav Seselj will come from The Hague very quickly, that he will probably stop this erosion of Serbia and the failure of what is happening to us today. What you're trying to do today with regionalization, what you're trying to do with certain transactions... (Chairman: National MP.) I thank you. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47407	Eight minutes of MP time was used. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. She's the last one registered on the speaker list.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47408	Mrs. Komic, please be kind, how much time is left for the SRS parliamentary group. (President: 23 minutes and 30 seconds left. ) Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, that more than two years ago in this House, one of the basic principles of parliamentary democracy and good parliamentary practice would probably not have been spoken of today on this item of the agenda, because it is common that when the members of the committee are proposed or in the course of the formation of the committee or later, when a party has a need to change a member of the board for some reason, it was mostly not a debate because the principle of how the distribution of seats on the parliamentary committees is done was respected, from how proportionate to which political party belongs to a number of members in certain committees, to which the position of the chairman of the committee should belong to the largest opposition party. This principle has really long been respected, but two years ago that principle was the most harshly violated and since then this parliament from the SRS position is not legitimate because in this House there are people who are called MPs and you call them MPs. I'm sorry, we can't and we won't because we Serbian radicals know that the SRS in May 2008 belonged to 78 assembly mandates. Mrs. Comic, don't be angry, but we must also take this opportunity because this is the opportunity where we can talk about, to remind Serbia's citizens first of all that the SRS has seized mandates in this parliament and based on such kidnapped mandates, there has been discrimination in terms of the number of MPs in certain committees and the number of presidents of certain committees, in particular which committees are concerned with presidential positions when, in good parliamentary practice, they belonged to the largest opposition party here, and the largest opposition party in Serbia's parliament, and today it is the SRS. What happens after the next election, we never talked about it here, we didn't calculate. They'll tell the citizens, we have patience with the citizens. We will wait for them to say in the elections what they think of the consistent policy of the SRS and of some who have changed their attitudes and policies. We are talking about what is the practical state of parliament today. The fact that you do not like what we are saying to you from the ruling majority, and not those from that party that has been formed in the meantime and which you from the ruling majority have allowed to have a parliamentary group in this parliament, from our point of view absolutely the opposite of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, is your business, but you must also endure our views. The colleagues who spoke before me, I didn't want to report that I was warning you of the Rules of Procedure and, in my opinion, some violations of the Rules of Procedure, but you, Mrs. Komic, cannot direct the MP. If the MP wants to explain what's on the agenda, you're directing him in what way he's going to do it. So, we want to bring the Committee's problem through this proposal for a decision that we have on the agenda today, above all, to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because you've completely come up with the work of the board. Not you personally, but representatives of the regime. You've completely disfigured the work of the assembly committees. On the one hand, the media is full of your beautiful stories that the work of Parliament from plenary will be reduced to the work of the board, that the committees will solve the most important things in the world, and here we'll just click the buttons, 126 is for and then that's something that's untouchable. The others will be against, abstentions, they won't vote, it doesn't matter how they behave at all, and everything else you say will happen on committees. If so, and we claim not to, then let's keep these committees in line with this book you've shared with us, and here is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on the National Assembly and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. So let the parliamentary groups be formed in accordance with these acts, and then the committees as permanent working bodies of this Parliament. You won't, and that's what your colleagues tried to tell you how to play the quorum where it suits you, how you do the quorum somewhere, you don't do it. To be clear, the SRS is an opposition party. We'll never give you a quorum in parliament or on any committee. We're not a party that thinks one thing today and tomorrow another, so like Tabakovic and Becic two days ago, they gave a quorum to the Finance Committee and then they go to the cameras, because they can come in front of the cameras, unlike us from the SRS, and they say they're against the budget, against this or against that. So that's what we want to talk about, Mrs. Komic, maybe in a way that doesn't suit you, but it suits us, we talk in our own way. The theme is therefore to amend the Decision on the selection of members of certain committees, I can also read which, but there is no need because this is the proposal of the parliamentary group of the party G17 plus. We Serbian radicals think this is the absolute right of the G17 Plus party. They were, according to their will, Ms. Snezana Stojanovic Plassic, first of all, not an MP, so she was, and now she is not an MP, now the Secretary of State, absolutely their right and I respect Mrs. Stojanović Plassic for accepting her party's will because she is aware that she has been given the mandate in this parliament by her party. We expect that these days we will again have this point of the agenda, where LDP colleagues are likely to change our colleague, Mr Slobodan Maraš, on boards, who has acted as an honorary man and returned his mandate to his party, as he said in the media – aware that the LDP has granted him a mandate in this parliament. What are the motives for leaving the party and going somewhere else or not going? We don't care about that from the SRS. These are within the party affairs of the LDP and let them take care of it. We are talking about what is the interest of parliament, which is the interest of a healthy parliamentary environment that we have advocated, not lately but since there is a multi-party system in Serbia. We are the only party, the SRS, and we are proud to point out that in 20 years, she has never changed her views on parliamentaryism or when we were in power or when we are in opposition. We always think we should pass it on to the Assembly. We always think that an MP should talk about every topic, that there should be unlimited time and we will always think so, and we will always act that way, because they are the only real parliamentary principles. What you're trying to do, I have to tell you, there's not much to do with democracy, and you're aware of that, of course, but you can. You have 126 mathematically raised votes. How many ideological coalitions is that? We don't want to talk about it. It's been a while since we talked about it. There will come a time when there will be an opportunity to talk about it and I would not spread the subject, but just to be noted. Why do we think we should support this decision? Because this is the will of Mrs. Snezana Stojanović Plassic, Veroljub Stevanovic, Suzanne Grubjesic, Miroslav Pejica and Elizabeth Paunovic, but because this is the will of the party G17 Plus. That is why we remind you that the will of the SRS should be respected when we have our hands on it, and today we have the will of the citizens, with 78 mandates. You stole those mandates. You've allowed these mandates to be stolen. One example, one proof to our claim that these mandates belong to us, besides these absolutely clear legal constitutional frameworks. First of all, for the sake of the public, that Tomislav Nikolic, when we ran the SRS campaign, according to the policy and programme of the SRS, the ideology of SRS, the ideology of Serbian nationalism represented by our President Vojislav Seselj and all of us who are followers and his members of the SRS, in 2008, came to some radical gathering and said – I also advocate that one day I will hand over to The Hague tribunal Ratko Mladic, would have gone to such a meeting much worse than Montgomery had been at his recent meeting. And not only that, but it would certainly be excluded from the SRS at the moment, because on behalf of the SRS he could not talk about handing General Ratko Mladic over to The Hague tribunal, because the SRS stance is also related to the UN tribunal and to General Mladic's heroism. Mrs. Comic, let me finish thinking about why I'm bringing this into contact with what's on the agenda. What I'm talking about right now is probably the strongest evidence that the mandates stolen by Tomislav Nikolic belong to the SRS, because he did not get those mandates that he now has because he publicly advocated the extradition of Ratko Mladic, but because he publicly advocated great Serbia and the ideology of the SRS, why we Serbian radicals advocate from the establishment and as long as the party exists we will stand for it. He did not advocate what we advocate to say that Serbia should not join the EU, Serbia should break all contacts with the EU because the EU is jeopardising our borders because the EU is tearing our country apart because the EU is stealing parts of our country. If he'd said something like that, he couldn't have gotten close to EU meetings. No, he was saying what we were saying. If he was actually saying what he's saying now, that the EU is, above all, giving Kosovo, giving Mladic, giving everything alive, just to get hold of EU pre-accession and accession funds, he couldn't have these mandates. That is the problem that you, gentlemen of the regime, have brought into this House. This is no SRS regret. We simply, as Col. Jovanovic said, as long as we are in this House, in this assembly we will remind you that you have violated the Constitution. You made it possible for Tomislav Nikolic to form a phantom parliamentary group, and as a result, it was what colleagues said we did not have as the strongest opposition party of the board of directors, because you couldn't save Tomislav Nikolic and this group he gathered around you, and therefore you did not allow, as usual, that we Serbian radicals as the strongest opposition party that we have the post of chairman of the Administrative Committee. Why don't we have a seat as chairman of the Defence and Security Committee? Because Dragan Todorovic as chairman of that committee on behalf of the SRS raised questions about Bojan Krist, "Luke", "Usce", Caneta Zapca, "News" etc. And you had to stop it. How? To take the position of the chairman of that committee. Here you even personally chaired last week when we didn't have the opinion of the Legislative Committee on some part of the agenda and you said we didn't have an opinion because the president of the Legislative Committee was sick and his deputy didn't want to hold a session of the Legislative Committee. You've misinformed the public. I apologize if it was Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, not you. Maybe that's where I'm wrong, but I'm sure this has been a misinformation to the public. That wasn't true. The chairman of the Legislative Committee, counterpart Vlatko Ratkovic, was the day before that, thank God, alive and healthy, recovered from the disease he unfortunately had sitting in this parliament and could hold a meeting of that committee. Why didn't he keep it? I don't know and I don't care. If you thought the SRS MPs should make quorum because you were unable, although the last time we discussed the committees, you did everything possible to have a majority on all committees, that literally, Krasic said, you can paint the situation from this hall into committees and you still can't provide quorum. That's your problem. Your problem is that instead of 10:00 a.m., sometimes we start working at 12:00, so we have to continue at night, two or three hours after the Business Time, although we Serbian radicals don't think and make a problem when we're working neither at night nor in the afternoon, nor in the morning, etc. We know we're here to work, to represent the people, and we'll never question it. Don't turn the facts, but tell the truth - we can't secure the quorum, let's try again. Admit to the citizens of Serbia what most of you have provided. That is why you are also served by this group of MPs who do not know what is called and who did not exist at the time when elections were held and led by Tomislav Nikolic. That's why they serve you, when you don't have a quorum on the board, they run. When you don't have a quorum in the O.R., they run, and then Tomislav Nikolic says, "So what, those were some meaningless points and it was only the afternoon." God save me. First, what are these points that are being debated in parliament that are insignificant? Who is he who will build up what is significant and what is insignificant? Well, I guess whatever we're talking about here is very important to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and just how important it is whether the quorum is given in the afternoon or in the morning. Unbelievable, but I'm saying, that's what you did and you totally consciously did it. All this led to it, that it was unthinkable, what I said at the beginning, that the devised work of the board as the permanent, working bodies of this Parliament. I must remind you, and that about a year and a half ago, the SRS and the MPs of the DSS joined us and asked to be held by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and that on this committee, Madam President of Parliament who is acting as chairman of this committee, to tell us and to provide us with precise information as to how much work this Parliament has done with the Law on the Application of the Constitution, and how much time have we respected the deadlines laid down in that constitutional law? We didn't get that information until today, and we didn't get that information. Mrs. Dejanovic was then on that committee, because God, the chairman of parliament's committee, so all the media were present, she told the media -- we'll get it in 15 days. That was almost a year and a half ago. We also asked for SRS MPs and were also joined by DSS MPs, we asked that the Justice and Administration Committee be held, at a time when it was an actual public secret to judges at KIM, when it was so-called. The re-election of judges here is current, when KIM judges were threatened to, if they do not accept to work for those KP courts, that they will not be re-elected as judges in Serbia in this parliament. Of course KIM is Serbia, but unfortunately, currently under occupation. We wanted to talk about it. We couldn't talk, because instead of the minister on that board someone came along, it wasn't even this secretary of state, it was one of the members of the ministry. Apparently, Mrs. Secretary was sick, we appreciated that, but we said, "Come on, when are we gonna meet again?" And that was over a year ago and we never met. So much for your relationship with the committees. And it won't be any better when it comes to these committees we're discussing today. Today you will vote on proposal G 17 plus, that Veroljub Stevanović from the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with the Foreign and Local Self-Government will be replaced by these functions and that, instead of him, Susana Grubjesic, i.e. in this second committee, Miroslav Pejica. I repeat, I'm not entering their right, we respect that right. But you won't answer questions, and neither will the colleagues who will be elected to this committee, because this regime has no answer to these questions - what have these committees done when it comes to local self-government and the transfer funds written by all the media, where you are attacked by even the presidents of municipalities that are from the ruling parties, because you blocked the work of local self-government because you don't give them the money that belongs to them under the Constitution? What will you do when it comes to developing economic relations with abroad? Could what Mr. Stevanovic, as a member of this committee, not possibly have been able to explain, as well as Susana Grubjesic, and it concerns, for example, the fact that today in Kragujevac, workers of the "Metals System" strike that they entered the IRS and that they will not come out until their conditions are met, because of the citizens of Kragujevac, it is the former firm "Filip Kljajic", and because they had problems in the privatisation and many have problems, which are criminal privatisations, you, until today, or Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, whose jurisdiction according to our Rules of Procedure, has not been established by the Committee on Economic Reforms. It's interesting that the regime thinks there's nothing to talk about in reform. You're damn right it is. First of all, let's talk a little bit about all the criminal privatisations that are already a public secret. For years, Serbian radicals have spoken and resisted the finger that all privatisations have been committed in a criminal manner, where all damaged employees. In time, the media adopted our information. Of course, they won't say – this is what the SRS used to run, but of course they'll write about it and it's good to write. I'm finishing up, Mrs. Comic. I see I've wasted my time. Time's running really fast, but okay, there's gonna be a chance again. So, of course, colleagues proposed by Mrs Susana Grubjesic have the support of the SRS. I do not enter their motives, we respect the will of the party that won the seats in the elections and we ask that you all respect the will of the citizens who assigned 78 parliamentary mandates in 2008 to the SRS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47409	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, and before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone who has not used his right? Yeah. ) National MP Nada Kolundzija, President of the ZES parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47410	The Honorable Chairman, except of course I have some kind of complaint about the fact that this subject has been misused, that there is talk of something that is not the subject of the agenda and that this is actually a misuse of the time available, I just want to say a few things that are important, which are from these previous exhibitions, where from some of these exhibitions you can really find it difficult to get out what you wanted to say. But some things are incorrectly stated here and the truth is for my sake, and I feel responsible for the public and for the MPs who participate in the work of the board and make a great contribution to the work of those committees, to bring out what are the facts. First of all, we had a point here called the Proposal for a Decision to replace Members of Parliament on individual committees. A member of the 45th says that, on a proposal from the MP group, the National Assembly can decide on the termination of office and the replacement of MPs on a committee. The fact is, that's the agenda point, it would rule out any possibility of talking about 99% of what we've been listening to here today. I would exclude 100% of every debate, because we are now asking the next question – every member of the board, every chairman of the opposition party, including the party that has now misused this topic, was elected by the votes of the parliamentary majority, the parliamentary majority. If we now see this as their way of understanding responsibility and work, then it would certainly oblige us not to vote on any single proposal each time. I would also like to say that the committees held 850 sessions in this term, 850. Every objection and talk about the committees not working and the committees, because the parliamentary majority is not interested in the work of these committees, is simply false. It is also a fact that MPs, in particular some opposition parties, including a party that has now abused this time in the way it has abused, do not participate in the work of most committees. That's true. In addition to the fact that members of our Rules of Procedure say that MPs are obliged to participate in the work of the board and that they are obliged to give the quorum, but whatever they are not, which they believe is part of their opposition work in not participating in the work of the board, let them explain it to the citizens who sent them here. They don't have to explain it to us, because we can't understand it. So if you have a chance to be against something and fight for some idea, then you do it through institutions where you can fight for that idea. Since there is obviously no idea, nor is there any real opposition attitude to the proposals that are coming, then the only way to allegedly express some kind of attitude, to say, is not to give a quorum and not to participate in the work of that committee, and whoever participates is a traitor and it is not an opposition. It's something they need to explain now. So each member group has the right to replace within its parliamentary group. Any parliamentary group may, in case their MP leaves, deploy someone else into the working bodies of the Assembly. In addition to being politically pointless, I think it is extremely incorrect to spend energy, time and everything else in this way to abuse one subject that is undeniable and thus actually try to obstruct Parliament's work. What doesn't contribute to anyone who's been discussing here so far are facts. We will send it to the public, since it is a public document, citizens have the right to see how MPs behave in parliament, we will deliver a document showing how many MPs have participated in the work of the Committee, which I repeat, held 850 sessions.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47411	Five minutes and 10 seconds, the time of the president of the parliamentary group has been used. You have no right to a replica. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47412	In accordance with Article 27, Mrs Comic, you were obliged to draw attention to counterpart Nadia Kolundzija that none of the SRS MPs who spoke about the agenda point said that the MPs proposed by G17 plus should be members of this committee and I do not know on what basis the co-worker concluded that you should never vote for SRS proposals either. So we didn't question the will of the party G17 plus, on the contrary, we claimed all the time that they absolutely had that right. You had to draw attention to them that if something was on the agenda and MPs were talking about it, it could not possibly be the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, because something was not put on the agenda to get over it, but rather to discuss it in parliament. It can't be called obstruction. It may also have been good, and it should have been in line with this article to remind your colleague, you were a member of the DS then, she wasn't, that the entire DS parliamentary group hadn't entered parliament for months and she hasn't used her right to do so, as she says, that she can talk about something, and she won't, in some place, and we didn't mind it. It is simply the party's position, and the basic principle of parliamentary democracy is that whoever is in power, who is in power, must secure the quorum, must provide the majority and plenary work and committees. What would it mean, Mrs. Comic, yours or anyone else's majority, if the quorum is going to give you someone who's an opposition? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47413	There's no injury to article 27, and if there were, I'd intervene. In one word, the President of the Parliament Group of Hope Kolundzija did not injure any of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Your reaction is a hunch that we're not listening enough. So, if I were to give you the right to be warned or warned about the infringements of the Rules of Procedure, that would, and by taking into account the stenograms of discussions of other MPs, mean that other MPs would not come at all from the abuse of business provisions to the right to be heard in parliament. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji has the right to replicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47414	Dear Chairman, I think I'm being misread. I said I don't mind if someone thinks that his political position is not to participate in the work of the Assembly and that he has an excuse for the citizens who chose him, that's their legitimate right. I absolutely don't dispute that right. What I have disputed is how the committees work and how this congregation works. So, with parliamentary majority responsibility, the committees held 850 sessions. It is only important to point out here because there have been completely untrue claims that the committees allegedly do not work, that they cannot work and that the parliamentary majority is responsible for it. Thanks to the parliamentary majority this assembly is working and all its working bodies are working, and whether or not it's a political programme, that's your business.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47415	The right to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47416	Mrs. Komic, you were in charge, based on Article 103, after I called to advertise Article 107. Rules of Procedure, please give me your word immediately after the completion of the presentation of my colleague, Ms. Radeta, because you have seen very well that I have reported for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and this has priority over the replica you gave to your colleague, Mrs. Kolundjia. I believe that the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated, and you, as chairman, have been obliged to act because Mrs Kolundjia, in her presentation, has hurt the dignity of the MPs and the highest legislative body, making the truth about it... (President: People's Messengers, can't the Messenger of the people do the harm you speak of, it can only be the chairman. ) Mrs. Comic, would you please just listen to me politely? You have violated the dignity of the National Assembly, you have not responded. You were obliged to protect all of us here. You can't be in the position of the chairman of the National Assembly as your colleague from your parliamentary group of all the other members of the SRS. Then why did you hurt the Rules of Procedure at the chair? Why didn't you react when the truth was made that we weren't involved in the work of the board? Look out, did you listen carefully? Not to participate in the work, even though it's our political stance and our policy? What was Mrs. Radeta talking about? What was I talking about, all the other colleagues? Interest of each Serbian radical to work on the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but how? At the express will of the Serbian citizens, to belong to us as the citizens in the elections gave us, won on the list of SRS -- Dr Vojislav Seselj. We are unable to do this now. The colleague said, and you did not respond. So what, now you do not want to do it next time you want to make a replacement, or to make a proposal, so let us not say it. That's how you abused the majority, which Mrs Radeta spoke of 126 in number, so you revoted us and stole both our mandates and the position of the chairman of the Committee on Administrative Affairs and the Committee on Defence and Security. What were we bothering you, Mrs. Comic, on the Defence and Security Committee? (President: Two minutes. Because we expose the mafia and fight crime and corruption.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47417	There's no breach of Article 103. It's the only member you've got that's hurt. Since you were looking for a replica in the first wave, I said you had no right to a replica, not a stenogram, but a communication that was past a microphone and a stenogram, that's when the right to speak about the injury to the Rules of Procedure was sought by the People's Parliament of the Prophet Radet and received it. During her discussion, the People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji signed up, and then you did. Since you have not presented any other member who would have been injured, I can only repeat that I am asking all Members of the People not to abuse the right to speak about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and the article 103 is obviously not injured. Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives or those who have not exercised their right to a term of 96? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search on the proposal for a decision. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. Now, in accordance with Article 101 and in relation to Article 157. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set a recess for the session of the National Assembly until 1400 hours. At 14.00 hours, we will continue to search the details of the agenda points on which we have completed a principle common and unique search. Thank you. [[After break – 14.05]] We're continuing the session in the afternoon. A brief announcement of the schedule of time during the afternoon, given that the break on the basis of article 87 has already passed today, but also given that by 1600 hours until 19.00 MPs are starting questions, because of MPs who want to attend either session or session. Just before 16 o'clock, 15 minutes will be set for a brief break just to get the government representatives in, so it will be after 19.00 hours, so with a short break, only to come out, except for the authorised finance minister's representative, so that we can continue the search in particular. People's MPs are asking if there will be flight changes, depending on how valid the parliamentary issues will be. The better parliamentary issues, the more likely they are for flying changes. The minister will be attending the particulars search, I assume he'll be in the O.R. until we finish this reading section when we open the search in particular. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2010. One year, with the proposals for a decision to give consent to the amendments and the addition of the financial plans for 2010. I would like to inform the President of the National Assembly, Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, on the basis of a search in detail in the first item of the agenda of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2010, in addition to the representative, Diana Dragutinovic, finance minister, the session also attends Ružica Stojljković, assistant finance minister. First item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2010, with proposals for decisions on granting consent to changes and addition of financial plans for 2010: 1. The Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance; 2. National Employment Services. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladović, Boris Peljević, Milet Pošurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vuceta Tošković, Dragan Colić, Nenad Popović, Arsen Đurić, Jovan Paladić, Aleksandar Pejić, Željko Tomić, Milan Lapčević, Donka Banović, Milan Dimitrijević, Riza Buha, Milorad Buha, Nemanja Šarović, Miliš Petrović, Miliš Petrović, Miljan Zlat Miljić, Žalić, Žirić, Žalić, Zaković, Žović, Žović, Žalić, Žović, Žović, Žović, Žović, Žalić, Žović, Žović, Žović, Šamić, Mir. You received the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted and the Financial Committee's report. National MP Milisav Petronijevic, written on 25 November 2010, withdrew the amendment with an amendment that he submitted to Article 4. It's a bill of law. National MP Branko Ljiljak, written on 25 November 2010, withdrew the amendment to Article 4. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Before I ask if anyone wants a word, just to remind the MPs that representatives of the parliamentary groups have been authorised from the joint principled search, MP Djuro Peric, MP of the PUPS, MP Zoran Kasalovic, MP of the SPS – JS, MP Nenad Popovic, MP of the DSS – Vojislav Kostunica, MP Vlajko Senic, MP group G 17 plus, MP Dragan Stevanovic, SRS. As far as the time at our disposal, authorised representatives, or president of the parliamentary groups, are concerned, at 15 minutes each. Each MP submits the amendment for two minutes, as well as a representative of the government, with the total time of the government's representative unable to pass three hours and that time being measured as well as the time available for parliamentary groups also to be measured. I ask the authorised representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups, if I may, at the end of my presentation, say from what time to measure the time they used to present themselves. National MP Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47419	I will use the time of the parliamentary group, not the time of power, because I need it for those other laws. In principle, I will explain the amendment to Article 1 which comes down to the general remark of the deficit budget financing that relies on borrowing, where we have submitted the amendment, in fact, we wanted to point out, not to show not the debts that exist, but that the state must function in a way that it can only spend as much as its economy can bear. The borrowing can only be justified in the case of the construction of infrastructure projects and facilities for which this assembly is, and as we have adopted by law in the budgetary system, a report on the effects of future revenues of this today's spending, which should be in line with what we adopted through the amendments to the law as fiscal responsibility. So we cannot adopt laws that only fit into the norm of this Assembly and are called what the Assembly has done on the way to the EU, but we must adopt laws that we will respect. It's only measurable for citizens when we make laws as they apply. The proof that in the rejection of this law, states do not adhere to these criteria is that justice by the practice of modern states and governments in response to where our amendment refuses, all modern states rely on the financing of deficits through the broadcasting of state charters of value and credit. Looking at modern countries means that modern countries are seen for the moment when they're saving. You have as an example one UK, and it has abolished 142 government agencies, and it begins with one who chose wine for the reception and the celebrations of the state, to those who dealt with certain consumer rights. When you look up to the world, look up to the one where citizens will benefit, not just where you will benefit as a government.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47420	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government, which the Finance Committee accepted, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Đuric together submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47421	The President-in-Office, Madam Minister, is talking about reducing public spending in every budget explanation. The state in this case is doing exactly the opposite, increasing the consumption of goods and services by 10% while citizens spend less and less every day. Therefore, this amendment proposes reducing the spending on goods and services by 10% and increasing the isolation of incentives for the economy by 50% and agriculture by 10%. It is inadmissible that the planned subsidies for agriculture should be at the level of 2008. With this rebalance, the economic subsidy is still 0.5% of the total expenditure of the budget. Practically, that's what we've been saying in principle, economy and economic development are not at the priorities of this budget, especially this rebalancing. The government thus shows, specifically the entire government, that it is focused on survival and is working exclusively in the interest of the survival of this government, or the coalition that is in power and does not show any will, and will is shown by concrete facts to do something to help the domestic economy. That's why we stand firm behind this amendment and ask you to accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47422	Anyone else want a word? The MPs Jovan Palalic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted together to the 1st amendment. The word is from Ambassador Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47423	The President-in-Office, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the explanation of why this amendment is being rejected is just talking about the way this government works and the fact in general how the overall state of society is viewed. It is that this government is working by not connecting sectors, not seeing the impact of decisions in one sector on other sectors, not having an overview of the overall situation in society, in the economy and in all segments where it is important to see problems and to solve problems. We have pointed out the problem here, and we have talked about it every time the budget was discussed, and about budget rebalancing and the issue of excise duties on oil derivatives, and we find it inadmissible that, here, the government itself acknowledges in the context of the rejection of this amendment that gas excises are the largest in the region. The fact that he is at the same time trying to explain the retention of this level of excise duties by making it the main source of income for JP Serbia's pathways. This indicates exactly how this budget is filled and this budget rebalance that we are discussing today, by the fact that certain institutions or certain public enterprises are pressured specifically by the finance minister, and that after the government to satisfy their specific interests, without seeing the continent in making these decisions, unrelated to the fact that we have such expensive fuel and the fact that we have such expensive fuel is reflected in all segments of society and economy. At the same time, the fact is that some ministries are campaigning against generally reducing the level of tobacco consumption and smoking, and we have the lowest amount of excise duty on tobacco processing. Instead of establishing one consistent degree of policy, what is now declared by law and all others reduces the harmfulness of use of tobacco in Serbia by increasing excise duties, this way we take care of the interests of only one JP, not other segments of the economy. In this sense, it is acceptable to reject this amendment and especially to explain it, and the only reason is that this will reduce the income of the JP Roads of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47424	Thirty seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is made by the People's Messenger Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47425	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, I asked you six or seven questions the day before yesterday, and I was hoping for quick answers. I was hoping, and I also pointed out in my discussion that I would have the opportunity to hear your answers immediately after my discussion, that this would be the first opportunity when we could discuss the issues of Vojvodina financing there. Unfortunately, I didn't get any answers the day before yesterday. I didn't get an answer to any of the questions I asked. Yesterday you responded in a way. I have these stenographic notes of your speech. I was not allowed to reflect on those sentences of yours because you usually wait for the end of the discussion, wait for all MPs to say what they mean, and then finally give some explanations. According to the Rules of Procedure, no one has the opportunity to ask you a question and ask for clarification. I am forced, Madam Chairman, to use my time as head of Parliament, to try once again to get answers to my questions from Madam Minister. I hope your answers follow up on this speech. If they don't follow again, there's no need for the Minister to answer in the closing statement, I'm still not going to have a chance to ask you another question. I have a feeling I won't get what you're about to say again. You said yesterday, about my dilemma whether the rebalancing proposal is in accordance with the Constitution or not, that the formal legal answer should be received from the Assembly Legislative Committee on this matter and that according to your knowledge, the Committee did not conclude that this budget was unconstitutional. That's what you said from word to word. I don't think the Legislative Committee is in charge of assessing whether any bill or regulation is in accordance with the Constitution or not. It's the Constitutional Court. You certainly know that there were certain laws that the Legislative Committee considered to be in accordance with the law and the Constitution, the National Assembly adopted those laws, and then it turned out that these legislative proposals and later adopted laws were not in line with the Constitution. This was, for example, the Law on Local Elections, which was, for example, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Information Act. The Legislative Committee is not the body which, otherwise, is a political body, one of the working bodies of the National Assembly, is not competent to assess whether a particular proposal is in accordance with the Constitution, this should be done by the Constitutional Court. Only later will we know if these budgets are in accordance with the Constitution. And you said that, and I don't understand why you thought it was important to emphasize it, because of course no one, and at least me, did not question it. You said that you consider yourself to be elementally written, which means that, by one, you know how to read, and by two, you understand what you've read. Of course, I can read and understand what I'm reading, and the citizens of Vojvodina know, and so do the province's secretaries. I agree that you are in writing, but I agree that you also consider the regional finance secretary, Mr Jovica Djukic, to be as written as you or as I am. Last time I quoted to you a statement from the provincial finance secretary, and since the repetition of the knowledge mother is, I would like to read you the same statement and ask you to pay attention to what is the province's finance secretary, otherwise a member of the DS, told the New Zealand daily, on 25 September 2010, "The total amount of the province's budget only nominally meets the constitutional minimum of 7% for the province, but it is still not possible to provide three weeks of capital investment budgets because much of the budget is made up of transfer funds. It's justified that part of the transfer goes through our budget, but it's not justified for transfers to local self-government. It has no basis." Those are Mr Jovica Djukic's words, the province's finance secretary from the DS, and that's part of the interview. I claim the same thing Mr. Djukic claimed. That's what you said yesterday that nowhere is it said that the cost side of the Republic of Serbia's budget should provide those 7% for the AP Vojvodina budget. Also, Article 24. The budget system law says that there are different sources of funding of the mandate of the AP Vojvodina. So 10 to 15 different sources. Those are your words from yesterday. I agree that's the way it is. I took the Budgetary System Act and I looked at what it says in Article 24. The law. Article 24 of that Act shall bear the title – Funding the competences of the AP. There's really at least a dozen different sources, theoretically. But I'm going to tell you some sources under this law, so I'd like to ask you for an answer as to how much revenue the AP Vojvodina has in one year, for example, from other taxes or part of the tax in accordance with the special law. Is there any special law today that speaks of a tax or part of a tax belonging to the AP Vojvodina? We all know it's part of the income tax of citizens and it's part of the company's profit tax. But it says here – and other taxes or part of the tax in accordance with the special law. Where is this special law? Do we have a law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina? Do we have any other law that says that Vojvodina has other taxes that could serve as revenues to the province's budget? Next, it says in Article 24. The law on the budget system is that the sources of the province's administrative tax. I don't know, Mrs Dragutinovic, do you know how much of the province's taxis are in the circuit budget? I'll tell you – that's 0.005% of the province's budget. These are the special additional revenue of the AP Vojvodina of 0.005%. So that's a theory and in practice we don't have much use in the financial sense of regional administrative taxis. The Budgetary System Act states that the sources and revenues from the lease or the use of immovable property and movable items in the property of the AP are in accordance with the law. I also ask – what are the immovableities and moving things of the AP Vojvodina today, November 25, 2010? Has the public property law been passed? Has the state of Serbia changed and today the only state in Europe in which local self-government and the AP do not have their property? What are these proceeds from the lease of movable or immovable assets? It goes on to say: the incomes of the Duke are also receipts from the sale of valuables. What are these valuables? What's that height, roughly, indicative? If we know about the answers to these questions and if we know that they are either insignificant funds, as in the case of provincial administrative taxis, or cannot exist these sources of funding because there is no law on the financing of AP Vojvodina and public property law, then tell me, please, how can the province respect and operate on the basis of Article 184. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, when are practically the only sources of functioning of the AP that it receives from the republican budget? I also told you the day before yesterday, and so says Mr. Jovica Djukic, the regional secretary, that if we look at the structure of the funds that Vojvodina receives from the republican budget, then we will see that around 60% of the province's budget are transfer funds that cannot be funds that finance capital expenditures, because they are transfer funds. And if Vojvodina has no other significant sources of funding other than the republican budget, then how is Vojvodina to compensate for those assets that belong to it and which should exist for the Constitution to be fully respected, not only in relation to 7% but also in relation to three weeks. It's a constitutional obligation and we talked about it the other day, or I was talking about it, and we didn't talk about it because you didn't answer. That's what I'm expecting right now. I asked all these questions the day before yesterday, and you said yesterday you couldn't accept that Vojvodina couldn't affect local self-government in the sense that it was using transfer funds for capital investments, those 6.6 billion dinars. Explain to me, please, by what means of law, under which law does the AP Vojvodina have the authority to order local self-governments on its territory on what to use these transfer funds that local self-governments receive from the republican budget? Based on what law? What is this jurisdiction? According to the current legal order, the Vojvodina cannot order its local self-government to benefit certain transfer funds from capital expenditure. There's no such legal possibility. Only the republican government can order the AP of Vojvodina to use certain funds. For example, 25 billion dinars are used to finance education, education salaries and certain cultural programmes. It's so defined by the budget. But then those assets can't go to capital expenditure. That is why the proposal is not in agreement with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I asked you if you were counting on our votes, do you have the majority to vote on such an anti-constitutional rebalancing proposal? I didn't get an answer to the question. If we don't have to vote for this rebalancing proposal, I don't know why we should assist some other Vojvodinaan parties based in Novi Sad to take away those couples belonging to the citizens of the AP Vojvodina? That's what I'd like you to explain to us. Since I'm running out of time, I'd really like you to give these questions an answer. If that's the case, I still have eight and a half minutes to ask you some more questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47426	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Diana Dragutinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47427	I'm very sorry the MPs ask a question and then they come out. When someone comes out, he's not there, so he's not interested in getting an answer. I really can't answer you more than I said yesterday. I agree with you that the Legislative Committee is not the one who will judge whether something is in accordance with the law, or the Constitution, but you must acknowledge that the function of its existence is to make sure that the laws are in accordance with the Constitution. That's the point. Otherwise, it doesn't make sense to exist. According to my information, I may not have any fresh information, but he, the Legislative Committee, didn't conclude anything like that. You, of course, have read a member of the Law on the Budgetary System, which speaks in which all ways can be financed by the competences of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina and you have indeed cited all sources other than borrowing, which means there is a possibility that the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina should be in charge, which it does. She's in debt, I guess, because she wants to invest in projects that will one day make a huge contribution and thus be able to pay back the increased cost of borrowing. The Budgetary System Act gives the foundation to Vojvodina that it can propose a law that will introduce some tax, which will finance the powers of the Vojvodina. But what I said was, you quoted the words "continent secretary," you were talking about my words today. I was just reading a member of the Constitution, and I said the Constitution just doesn't say it. The constitution gives us a ratio of size. Why, for example, does it not say that the transfer of Vojvodina amounts to 7% of the Republic of Serbia's budget? It doesn't stand anywhere. So that member of the law basically gives a ratio of size and nothing more than that. So I am an economist, and you're a lawyer, and I really only see in words what they say, just what they say, that it writes that little detail, so important that the budget of the Republic of Serbia is obliged to take care of the scale and structure of the budget of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, I would really think that such a proposal is unconstitutional, but it just doesn't write it. So, you always have the opportunity to propose the law, to introduce some fiscality and to either put yourself in charge of that fiscality and thus make sure that indeed three weeks of budgets are capital expenditure. You always refer to that member of the Constitution. I brought the constitution, it just kind of happened in my bag. I also think it should, but this constitution has a large number of members, one of these members is the unification of development. Article 94 says – The Republic of Serbia is looking after balanced and sustainable regional development, I will not criticise any numbers, I know that neither you nor I have been here, so it is easy for us to criticise the Constitution, I do not want to criticize it. But imagine what he says to me, and if I did otherwise, what does this member of the law tell me? Does this member of the law tell me that I should ensure that every unit of local self-government and the budget of the Republic of Serbia is practically singled out for capital expenditures three weeks or 43%, or, for example, from the budget of the Republic of Serbia 280 billion dinars, and it has capital expenditures ten times less? If I were to look at this member of the law, I ask you, if I did the opposite, would that be against the constitution?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47428	Four minutes and 35 seconds, she took advantage of the proposing's representative. He's looking for a word again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47429	There was one more question. I think I've answered everything, but if I expect you to vote for this rebalancing, I always come with good intentions and speak frankly, and not only of you, I expect all MPs, no matter what sides they are on, to support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47430	For another 30 seconds, the proposing representative has taken advantage of the time available. National MP Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47431	It's a real parliamentaryism. I thank you for answering some of my questions. You began to feel sorry for the MPs coming out and not listening. I spoke the day before yesterday, and you answered yesterday. I hope MPs are not expected to sleep in the Assembly Hall. After the day before yesterday and after asking questions, when the day was over for the day before yesterday, here, congregationally, of course, I got out of the O.R., but there was no answer. The answer arrived yesterday, and after your answer, it was not possible to ask questions or reflect on your words. As for quoting other members of the Constitution, there are many members. There is also a constitutional law on the implementation of the Constitution, which is practically in the ranks of the Constitution, and it says that the National Assembly is obliged to bring its legal system and existing laws in line with the provisions of this constitution by the end of 2008. If Serbia had a public property law and if Serbia had a law on the financing of AP Vojvodina or an alternative to that, if you would amend the Budgetary System Act in a way that, in addition to the income tax on citizens and company taxes, you would indicate some of the other types of taxes that make up the incomes of the AP Vojvodina, in that sense, Vojvodina would be able to plan its expenditure more freely and not be fully or in full by 99% to sources from the republican budget, but since that is not the case, it remains only, as you said, borrowing. The day before yesterday, I told you that if we calculate the share of the transfer funds, then we see that about seven billion dinars are missing from funding capital expenditures this year in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. That's about 70m euros. I don't know what the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Finance would say if the AP Vojvodina were to consider borrowing at 70 million dinars. I don't know what you'd say. To repeat, I said, I don't know that you mentioned borrowing as a possible source of funding, and if we look at how much the share of the transfer funds in the budget is, then we'll see that about 7 billion dinars are missing for covering capital expenditures in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, in order to respect the Constitution fully compared to three weeks. I don't know what the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Finance would say if Vojvodina were to consider borrowing 70m euros by the end of the year? I don't know if that would be possible and is that the right way? I don't think the IMF would look kindly at that. The problem is that you forgot this year and all previous years to inform the IMF that you, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, have one constitutional obligation, i.e. to finance the AP Vojvodina. Because of your failure, due to the failure of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we still don't have the law on public property and the law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina. I suggest we pass these laws as soon as possible and then you'd be right to make it much harder for us to calculate whether this constitutional provision of 7% is respected. In this case today, all those who say it is impossible to calculate how much Vojvodina should receive. It's very simple, even lawyers can calculate, which aren't exactly numbers in the best of relationships. We're turning down the transfer funds, what's left of it is 43%, that's three weeks. If not, then the Constitution is not respected. It's that simple. I suggest you propose a law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina and the public property law. The Public Property Act was in the form of a draft on the Ministry of Finance's website in October 2008, so it disappeared and no one knows where it is. If these laws were passed then it would be much harder to prove that the proposal does not comply with the Constitution. This is how I keep saying on the basis of all that debt cannot achieve the goal. It is not possible to provide 70m euros in debt for capital investments in 2010, so neither the Government of the Republic of Serbia nor the IMF would kindly look at it and that Vojvodina is still in a position to depend on the funds it receives or does not receive from the republican budget. I'm saying he doesn't get them.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47432	Thank you. Mrs Dragutinovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47433	If you'll allow me to look back at Article 24. The budget system law, since this is a discussion on one subject, is so-called The constant theme of adopting any budget and rebalancing, we return to it. What I'm saying is that funding the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina is also a possibility of what you said, part of the tax under special law, but so on. The second tax. I don't think anything prevents you from proposing that other law and introducing fiscality and, based on that fiscality, fulfill your constitutional obligation. I also want to ask you something else. They taught me that decentralisation and the purpose of decentralisation is to cut costs. Is this how you said, when part of tax revenues, say, the Ministry of Finance are clean transfers, they go to the pension fund, to the Health Insurance Fund, go to different responsibilities, etc. You're suggesting we cut those funds, transfer it to Vojvodina. So we have to make up for it. Do you suggest that after that, the tax burden or debt of the state be greater, and the purpose of fiscal decentralisation and decentralisation is in general that after decentralisation, the expenditures of the state are lower.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47434	Thank you. Mr. Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47435	I agree, Madam Minister, that the purpose of decentralisation is to cut costs and tax burdens, but I see one contradiction here. You just suggested that we propose a law to introduce new taxes. There's two problems here. It is the first one you spoke of earlier, that we do not consider a good solution to introduce some new tax burden on citizens, and there is another problem – the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina has since 2000 proposed to the National Assembly about 50th of the bill and none of these legal proposals have reached the agenda of the National Assembly, so I do not think that it is the right solution to propose such a law as the MP or Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. I would suggest that it be the Ministry of Finance, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but since we have agreed that it is not the right way to introduce some new tax, I suggest we pass a common law on public property. That must be a better way. This will not make the citizens a loss, so they will win not only the AP Vojvodina, but all the local self-governments. I do not understand why this law is not yet in the congregation procedure. One more question for the end. This solution could solve all our dilemmas. The 2009 budget said that 90% of the NIS sales price belongs to the AP Vojvodina, that 50% belongs to Vojvodina immediately after the adoption of that budget. The funds were received by Vojvodina and 40% after the adoption of the Law of Jurisdiction. I'm asking you where that money is, where's that 150m euros, why didn't Vojvodina get that money when it was planned for the 2009 budget? Is this spent contrary to the 2009 Budget Law provision, or can we expect Vojvodina to receive these 150m euros these days? I remind you there's about 70 million missing. If you could get us those 150, which belongs to us based on the 2009 budget, you would give Vojvodina not 7% but 10%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47436	The word is Mr. Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47437	I'm going back to what I was talking about yesterday, and a little bit wider about rebalancing. I would use the time I have as an authorised representative and to say that we have a steady growth of deficits that, unfortunately, is no longer possible to cover revenues from privatisation and now simple public debt control has been lost and the debt has breached the 10 billion-euro magical border and has increased by 1.6 billion euros in the government's mandate. The specific public debt today is 11.5 billion euros. Most of this public debt growth for these 1.6 billion happened right this year. The effect of this borrowing is more than modest. And again, we don't have new roads, we don't have new jobs, we don't have economic growth, and we're in debt 1.6 billion euros. I think our debt has risen from 26.3% to 38.1%. Let me explain that only during this year's auctions sold state records worth 212 billion dinars. That's two billion euros. The plan is still the upper limit set by 258 billion. So, we have a debt, and we don't have a Corridor, we don't have thermal power plants, we don't have economic growth, it's not invested in the economy, although Mrs. Minister resents me wanting only in the economy, which is what I'm going to do, and I still don't think there's anything more important than the economy, because the economy is going to provide wages and nurses and doctors and teachers and teachers and cops. I'm glad they support me by nodding my head. I just want to say we're in debt at a high rate and we're going to get to this point of 45% of GDP very quickly. It's gonna happen next year in the middle. I ask the question – what are we going to do in the middle of next year if we continue to be in debt at this rate? They add – elections. Very likely. This may be the way to the election, but I'd like those elections to happen as soon as possible, if we knew, because I think with this kind of borrowing, we're going to be very difficult for the next government. One element in the rebalancing that caused my attention is an increase in education. That's good. 892 million more are allocated for education, but it's only good at first sight. The phrase used in the EU is a very good phrase, that society is knowledge, that it invests much more in knowledge, that knowledge is a greater resource than some raw materials, and that's good. Europe is doing very well, but I have to say that this 892 million dinar education increase is for wages only, 97% of this goes for wages. For the internet, for the school workshops, for the right education, for the labs, the computers only go 3%. In general, we have the least educational separation in Europe. There are still some problems with taking practical classes, and I don't think this government is likely to be able to do it, but some future one must be thinking about getting a practical education back to school, because that's something that today feels and the economy at the end of that schooling. The next element that I also liked was that for the first time during this government, there were increased separations for culture. That's good. Investment in culture brings a great deal to the citizens, for their support for their development. These cultural secessions bring enormous benefits to the development of young generations, especially if they are invested in creation that will help to restore our people spiritually. But there's another problem. There has been increased isolation only in this rebalancing process, but from 2008 until today, the detachment for culture has reduced you from 950 to 378 million dinars. The only thing I didn't like about this increase in culture is that the increase refers to the mostly increased cost of cinematography. There are 55 million dinars for cinematography, and only 15 million for literary creation, 15 for international co-operation, 10 million for an idea solution for the National Museum, and 5 for severance employees based on rationalization. What I don't understand is that it goes more for cinematography than for all other forms of cultural creation. I can't understand 55 cinemas, 15 literary creations... They get that there's a lot of party directors, that's why I listen from congregation benches. (President: Please don't let anyone throw away and act even gentlemenly.) ) When we talked about the adoption of the budget whose changes you are proposing now, I asked – did anyone worry in this government that 30% less grain was sown this autumn than in the previous year? With such agrarian policy I think we will have in the near future, not in some distant, very big problem, and I will repeat that agriculture is our largest export branch. Let me just add that that's when the corn when I was talking was nine dinars per kilo and the wheat was ten. Once again, there are five times fewer male cows today than 20 years ago. How we started with these milk subsidies that are the lowest in Europe will probably be even less. I spoke and asked a parliamentary question about the sale of Telekom. I see that probably one of the things this government is going to do, probably the biggest mistake, is this potential sale of Telekom. The DSS categorically advocates the sale of Telekom as one of the most important resources in this country. Telecommunications, or telecommunications infrastructure, is equally important for every country, as well as road, rail or water infrastructure, and selling Telekom today is the same as selling all the roads in Serbia. There's no big difference. Obama at the American Academy of Science has made a request that 51% of graduate students be students of technical and natural sciences by 2020, because the biggest changes in the next 20 years in industry are expected precisely in new technologies and mostly in telecommunications. We are all witnesses in the Assembly, citizens in RS, everywhere in the world that there has been no such technological growth as in telecommunications in the last 10 or 15 years. It is certain that in the next 10 or 15 years it will be even bigger, ten times larger, and ten times faster. A telecom that is not only mobile telephony, but also a fixed telecommunications infrastructure in which several billion euros have been invested in the past 100 years has capital significance for Serbia's future. I also want to say that big companies in the world and in economic theory in one place big companies, especially technologically strong, come up with 10 jobs in small and medium-sized enterprises. So it's in metallurgy, in machine building, in the automotive industry. That's what the representatives of all the parties here, the party of power, said. That's the way it is in telecommunications. By selling Telekom, we're not just selling Telekom. We sell the possibility of small and medium-sized enterprises, which are today co-operatives or Telecom suppliers, which are companies with high intellectual content, especially with high additional value. The highest additional value and the most expensive is intellectual, and this is what these small and medium-sized enterprises do, today co-operatives and Telecom suppliers. Of course we're gonna lose that resource. By selling Telekom, we cut jobs today. I'm telling you, I'm telling you, I'm responsible. It is logical that the new owner of Telekom, especially if it is global, and it will be global, if it comes to sales, will continue to co-operate with their traditional foreign partners co-operated with other countries. He won't be looking for new partners, because if he'd been looking for them, he'd have found them by now. Not to say that our students of electrical engineering, telecommunications that are remarkable, have proven this in all these Olympics as students, and especially as experts, because today in all the telecommunications companies in the world, where they work as professional staff, they have a great opportunity to hire in Telekom, to develop on the most modern technologies. I'm afraid that's going to be a big problem in the case of sales, because traditionally, that's what time has shown, and I believe that the Minister won't argue either, that scientific and research development, even in global companies, is being kept in the country of origin. Yeah, they're sending production. I can go to China, India, Pakistan, I can go to Serbia, but scientific research will keep the knowledge in the country of origin. Today our scientific and research work is working overtime. Here in Serbia our professors, academics, engineers, experts, all others have an extraordinary platform for future development. By selling Telecom, we lose it. So, by selling Telekom, it's lost in every field. That's why we insist that this telecom sale be stopped. Not to talk about the moment when it's done and it's never sold when it's cheapest, but it's another time. And finally to conclude, as for the rebalancing that in this case we have a firm attitude that the rebalancing will not support. We were talking about some flaws in this rebalance. We know it wasn't easy to make, it wasn't easy to make a budget. It's a lot of interest, and we know that everyone's pulling on their side. Let me just say, to conclude that the budget was not a developmental one, it was devastating, it led to the growth of the deficit to 1.2 billion euros, it led to a decrease in employment by 3%, led to an increase in public debt by 15% and decreased foreign direct investment to less than 600m euros. Of course, I would add to that that delay and realization of all, literally all, infrastructure projects mentioned as priority. As far as adjectives are concerned -- a developmental one, which was listed when this budget was made, is only the result of this budget, I think the great development opportunity would be for Serbia a new election, that another government is making a new budget, which would be much more oriented to domestic economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47438	Thank you. The 2nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47439	The article on the amendment to Article 2 is slightly related to the story of a fellow pastor and the answers of Mrs. Minister. What's strange is the recommendation Mr. Pastor received, which is to introduce a new obligation. We can make a commitment, but we don't have any new citizens. It would be a burden on existing citizens, or a million people who produce something, or even a million or five hundred are being held as employees, cannot bear this burden, to bear the costs of such public spending and of such the adoption of laws in which each law carries a new agency, new costs, but not new employment. If you say that the Legislative Committee is the one who will assess whether something is constitutional or not, I must deny you. The moment that in this country, even though I am an advocate and a South Stream and everything we need to do as the country's energy security, and a link to Europe's energy security, when you allowed the unconstitutional execution of an expropriation of a company that is not in majority state ownership, it allowed 126 hands and opened the way to adopt every subsequent unconstitutional law. This is no exception, there are unconstitutional laws which have enabled double functions and are equally destructive to this country's legal system, as well as any respect for the Constitution in this home. What concerns me in the long run, and it should be yours in principle, is that the appetites of public consumption were formed, at the moment when there was an abundance of current incomes. Privatisation was instantaneous and transient income. On the basis of these revenues, the appetites of the state administration were formed. What's going on today? Gentlemen, Serbian citizens, billions of euros have passed through the Privatisation Agency. I don't want to talk about who the director was, or who came, or what it was, or broken contracts, or bad and unfulfilled privatisations. I just want to warn you of one fact. It's created by means of budgets. It started working on a World Bank custody fund project that prescribed that privatisation would be done, where the agency itself signed and controlled contracts, and then pulled out of the state wing, so that the state wouldn't control it when it was incomed. Today, Madam Minister, my colleagues from the government, on page 92 of the Department of Economy and Regional Development, you have a Privatisation Agency as a consumer with 250 million dinars. Someone who charged 5% of the prize for success in privatisation. What a success it is, those who don't work and who are out of a job and can't find it. They'll never find him again, because of the years they're in, a few years to retirement. They have again as taxpayers, at the budget register that we all charge, the Privatisation Agency as a consumer. So while someone's making money at the expense of selling state and social assets, the budget doesn't control it. Was it in the vault, Madam Minister, did you control whether public procurement works, where they deposit funds, how they spend, who they hire as advisors? No, as long as there was money, they weren't covered by the budget or the finance minister. It's a matter of concern for you and a principled question. Today when they need money again, they put their hand in the budget pocket. What worries me, which is about Article 2, is that a similar irresponsible policy is run by the Treasury of the Ministry of Finance, whose minister you are. I'm talking about debts, I'm talking about funding too much public spending, dimensioned when there were transient, one-time privatisation revenues. You're like the vault one of the best customers for the extra dinars he's got in canvas traffic. The best customer for that surplus dinar was the NBS and the Ministry's Treasury. Now let me explain to you what this is all about. You yourself admitted somewhere in March that the NBS had printed dinars under the cover of foreign currency coming to Serbia. It's clear, remember, the governor spoke – no, it wasn't for pears and apples, but for foreign exchanges, for foreign exchange inflows. But what worries all of us is that these dinars are not printed based on domestic economy activity, but only by short-term flows, what was currently entering this country as a stream of foreign capital. Now every aim of inflation that the state was doing at that time as its primary business has caused the concern that we have given you in good time, and you have turned your head together as well as all the means of public information. The question arises – what today when the change of man at the head of the NBS did we not get a change in monetary policy? What if fiscal policy is expected to solve the problems of extra dinars in circulation, when we have an economy that does not generate this new flow of foreign capital, and all of them are used to spending as much as they spend and when this customer called the state for dinars means you, through the Treasury, or the NBS, appear to us with a short-term tail of the NBS rate, make us some of the above-mentioned stable environment. How short-term stability that is, you can see for yourself. The concerns you've made for us, the way the vault behaves, are that you've left the economy without credit. Do you know what circle? Banks get money from NBS, and then you borrow from business banks. You're trying to convince us that it's some high, big policy, the only possible policy, that other countries of the world are funding themselves and that it is the only possible behavior. Serbia's public debt was below 10 billion in early 2009. As much as today, you know for yourself, it's 11.5 billion, but it's already over a quarter of what's called a gross domestic product. We don't mention the total debt, we only talk about the public. That is why I am talking about the destruction of such a way of financing pre-named public spending. The question arises – why did you, as a state, create such a field? You have knowledge, undeniable, you have experience, you have long knowledge of history, and you know that a lot of things in cash flows and in the way it's borrowed, its printing and inflating these balloons have changed nothing. So it's the maladministration of conservative banking that led to the financial crisis. It's just that someone wasn't 5% and 10% of the profits were enough, but they called banking classic gambling. In classical gambling, the state owes no one to protect. Why do you continue to allow banking, not to say lobby, banking sector measures, not to speak to the will, but to fiscal policy measures, to allow banks to act simply rationally. It's their job to borrow the state, that's for sure. Best charge, no risk at all. You're the best customer for business banks. You decided to borrow money from businesses and to borrow money from those who, by nature, should be in debt, which is citizens. It's gonna be hard for you to decide. That's why we had to use the IMF to pull instruments called the Vienna Initiative or the Agreement, whatever we call it. But there's no more good intentions, there's no more economic policy, there's a state out there that I told you yesterday, one month's charters go into three months, from three months to six months. Now that that inflow can't be compensated, to pay for the paper, we're going to the one-year-olds, and when that's not there, what does a gambler do as he sits in the casinos, with the passion of the gamblers? He sends children to bring him family jewelry from home, to sell it, to keep gambling. That family jewelry is nothing but Telecom. Is it really inconclusive to this extent that in public, I only repeat what I hear, that 320m euros are already meant to pay back the debt and that perhaps there is a secret agreement with the IMF, which has been reached, and that in fact it has not agreed on what and how pensions will be paid. We really don't have to reveal hot water, or deal with endless sectoral analyses, debates about prominence and percentages, or waste time clearing up incentives models. This budget shows who deals with subsidies and incentives, how many Ministers of Economy and Regional Development, in order to preserve the coalition government, can spend whatever he wants, regulations and regulations I tell you – this is no longer how it works. It just can't because the host who sells the field instead of eating the dry bread, even though it's for jam and butter, to buy a cow next year, so when he gets milk from which he can make butter and sell something and save it, then he comes to the field, you've made the other way. You left us without milk and literally and in a portable sense, you left us without butter, both in a portable and literal sense, and now you want to sell both the field or that family treasure called Telecom. The bearers of such a ten-year policy do not have the credibility to make reforms or fiscal policies, nor to come forward with a request to vote for one of these budgets. In that sense, it is truly an unrealistic expectation that anyone who thinks about the future, even if he was counting on the next two years, is voting for this rebalancing. No one will vote for him who knows how to add two and two together, and who knows what we have survived in the last ten years. Thank you. I've been using the MP's time.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47440	Ten minutes and 40 seconds of the parliamentary group's time has been used. The Government has submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The Finance Committee has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Jovan Palalic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted together to Article 2 of the amendment. The word is Mr. Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47441	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mrs Dragutinovic, ladies and gentlemen of the Members of Parliament, Article 2 also represents the essence of this rebalancing because Article 2 defines how this difference that has arisen will be compensated. It's very difficult for me to talk about this amendment because before me my dear colleague, Mr. Balint, spoke. The budget was once considered the most important law a government passed over the year. If, in the framework of a coalition supporting the government, such difficult words come to the budget, very argumentative evidence comes that the budget does not respect the basic law, then it is rather difficult for me as an opposition to attack the same act so strongly. Mr. Balint, you're a lawyer and we've known each other a long time. You know that one law is respected from the first to the last member and you can't say that you respect Article 24, and you won't respect Article 78. Mrs Dragutinovic, you have violated the Budget System Act in who knows how many members. It's hard to measure. There's no final bill, and it was supposed to be July 15th in the Assembly. It cannot be justified because the State Audit has not delivered its report. If you think that's logical, maybe it is, then it should have been, when they were amended and complemented by that law, a month ago, in the procedure, nice to say – the final account will be in the procedure only when the State Audit delivers its report and that would be fine. You can't say you won't respect the 1 November deadline when the budget is due to be in the assembly procedure. That's what it says in that same budget system law. If we apply the rules that we respect some members and some don't, I'm afraid we won't get far. Article 2 is the essence of this law. In Serbia inflation turned out to be higher in this year than was planned. Greater inflation results in a higher amount of GDP. That bigger amount, let's spend it. If we bring this debate down to the story of whether we should give social contributions, whether we should give investments, whether we should give it anywhere, we will fully support you there, but then it just means that you don't have any policy and that this government doesn't have any plan, because if we say we should, of course we all should. How far can we get? Also, you can't say there isn't a country that's not in debt. Of course, there is no country that is not in debt and of course there is no serious family, no company that enters any capital investment without borrowing. It's everywhere in the world. But let's see how it is now in Greece, how it is in Ireland and what's going to happen in Portugal and what's going to happen to Spain, what's going to happen to some other countries. That's the difference between countries that know how to borrow and those who don't know it. Article 2 shows the complete collapse of your economic policy. A year ago, you convinced us that the way to cover the deficits by broadcasting state records is an ideal solution that can solve everything. Obviously, it's not an ideal solution. A month ago, we discussed here, 15 days ago, how long it's been, a 250m-euro loan to charge the budget. What are we gonna do next year? You didn't give us any explanation back then, not now, in any way or why the banks that bought those government records won't buy them anymore? What's the secret? Then they want to give us foreign exchange credit, in euros. They're the same banks, there's no others. Those records couldn't be bought by anyone else. That's what politics is all about. If we can narrow it down to whether we should be here, not there, then we won't get anything. Does it have to be? Mr. Colakovic left. Do they need pensions? Yeah, they need pensions. Does she need an education? Yeah, he needs an education. Does everyone need it? Yeah, he needs everyone. But then there's no politics and then there's no priority, because everyone's going to tell us that we should, there's no doubt about it. That's what they said in Greece, believe me. There are no colleagues here from the delegation, we were in Greece a few years ago, they talked the same way, they need everyone, so now they're bankrupt. We were in Ireland. Isn't that right, Mr. Krassic? (Zoran Krasic, from the place: That's right. And there they said they needed everyone, so now in Ireland a miracle happened, a bankruptcy state. We won't get that far.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47442	Four and a half minutes of Parliament time. The word is Mr. Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47443	Mr. Novakovic, I will use the time of the authorised representative. We may also be forced to do so, given that the public, which is necessary to monitor the work of the Assembly, especially now when it comes to budget rebalancing, is objectively questioned when the debate was in principle, here and now in particular, given that we will discuss this in the late night, when I suppose there will be no direct television transmission. But in principle, I will say a few more things, referring first of all to one fact that the government did not find it appropriate to accept from the 60 amendments of the opposition, i.e. to choose as acceptable none. The SRS has proposed only six amendments and we are confident that they were very constructive. We didn't want to question our amendments for a moment, and I'm going to challenge that later, so on. The'social responsibilities' that this government wants to promote through this budget rebalancing, rather than taking the funds that we believe you've committed and predicted for thoughtlessness, shifted among others into the social needs and belongings of this country and into other things that we consider to give certain effects in the medium and long term. Before the amendment comes and talks about them, I'd have to look back on a few things, Mrs Dragutinovic, as you ended your debate yesterday. It is commendable that you have called on Lazar Pachu, but what we must blame you as an SRS for calling on the principles that have led you in the business, which are not suitable for the moment in which the state is located. You chose the fact that all the budgets were deficited. There are a bunch of anecdotes from his life and principles that he has managed, which are more suitable for calling on them and you as finance minister and state of Serbia, given the position of our fiscal system in which we are. It would've been nice if you'd called, for example, if he'd taken it and the king had returned it when the king asked him for money. I ask you today if you, as finance minister, would have the political freedom to return the unscrupulous king of Serbia when he asks for some money. Not only can you not return the king, you and these feudal people from the government can't refuse, not because you don't understand that what they're asking you is not normal, but because you don't have political freedom, because you know that the 126 figure is dependent on the will and commitment of the feudal people sitting in the feeds in Germany 11. That is the essence that burdens this budget and burdens the country's fiscal policy, on the one hand. On the other hand, you won't get me wrong, do you know how Lazarus Patch died? He died flatly, because the minister of the military signed a loan agreement without his knowledge. The last words he said were -- it's over with the constitutionality of Serbia. These are anecdotes, principles, unfortunate events from the life of Lazar Pachu, which are much more appropriate to the situation in which we were introduced in 2000, especially the last government built on the principles on which it was built. Here this pointless budget rebalance was defended, you know what? By promoting the social responsibility of the DS, so we're even asked, if something doesn't suit us to tell us what's wrong with us and what we wouldn't do that you didn't see in the budget. To remind the public and fellow MPs, social responsibility can be dealt with by stable and economic states. The social responsibility that DS promotes here has been proven and questioned, because you do not define the resources of this budget rebalance, to deal with social responsibility by settling something more than what is regular. You misdesigned the 2010 budget. The incoming party has failed, you did not provide funds to settle your regular social responsibilities and therefore we are doing this budget rebalance today, not because the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic is responsible and that is very clear to say. I repeat, the SRS in this segment did not touch at all, we even predicted more funds than the Government for social inclusion. How is it possible that the socially responsible government didn't accept something like that? We didn't dispute the commitment to share social assistance, wages, pensions, maternity benefits, but we dispute the fact that it's not done out of real money. It just doesn't work out of that money. You convince us of our social responsibility, while at the same time in the light of this budget you write that incomes from taxes and contributions have not been realised. At the same time, we say that the economy is growing, that exports are growing, and the number of employees is dropping. It's not us, so to speak exclusive, and we're not SRS irrational, so we don't understand what a budget deficit means, whether it's economically allowed or not. Of you who belong to the government, no one is talking about the structure of the deficit. No one's talking about the structure of public consumption. That's the essence of our problem. You said that evening, Mrs Dragutinovic, the deficit cannot be reduced overnight, but I remind you that in the following year we will have a projected greater deficit than this year at the beginning. In accordance with the fiscal rules and the Fiscal Responsibility Act, it should be smaller in order for the medium-term projection to be achieved as you plan and how you enter into the law. It had to be smaller than it was projected at the beginning of 2010. What other question is asked, and you deny me if I'm right, is 4.8% realistic and how much percent of the fiction is in it? You're comfortable with inflation and price hikes. At the end of that jump, you've covered some of your income, and this isn't a real deficit. What cost 100 dinars at the beginning of the year, VAT for it was 18, and today it costs 110 dinars, so VAT on it is almost 20 dinars. That increase is woven into this revenue side, but it's not real. After all, you know very well how the deficit is fixed and how the deficit can be when the intentions are bad and when the political weaknesses are great, political blackmails in the government are great, the deficit in next year you can figure out to be the one that suits you, not what is real. So here you have an example of putting down your duties on public enterprises, but not getting into that story. You simply cannot challenge the criticism of the SRS or anyone else on the burden of this budget, promoting it as your commitment to be socially responsible, because, in its essence, this budget is not. This budget rebalance is the verification of unreasonable public spending, which is large in relation to revenues, the finding of unreasonable relations and demands within the government. We were very correct. We have proposed amendments to which we are the funds you propose for pure fiction and imagination, we have shifted them to positions that you might expect in two or three years, so that through capital consumption, investment in the economy, in an adequate way, that in two or three years you create conditions for the revenue side of the budget to be ensured and that you can then make your social contributions a much more comfortable and relaxed way. Take a look at the budget rebalance of the funds that are defined and foreseen by the rebalance. How much participation in the structure of this rebalancing, how much participation in the economy, is in capital consumption. You say Mrkonjic has enough money. You read that at the end of your presentation. Mrkonjic has enough money, and the road infrastructure stands. What's the problem? You can't convince us that we don't have a construction operation, but also the government doesn't mind saying that industrial production can't grow the most burdened by standing in the construction industry. What's the problem? What's the problem? If we have the money, we have the surgery, what's the problem, who won't do it? Smite him, point your finger at him, whether you, whether Mirko Cvetkovic, Milutin Mrkonjic, is quite whatever, but we are convinced that it would make sense, we have asked to increase the position that is foreseen for the Ministry of Infrastructure. One more thing, if Milutin Mrkonjic has enough money, that is, his ministry, I will remind you that at the screening of the competitiveness of this country, infrastructure is the biggest problem and one of the first problems, and only then anti-monopolis policy, etc. It's just that some things aren't in agreement and you can't talk about how it suits you. When we defend the budget, then we're socially responsible, but nobody's talking about incomes and resources that will be spent on social benefits completely, I'm not going to say fictitious, but you'll understand. Something that wasn't created, not produced and not earned. What also the SRS resents is what you want and what you want to reciprocate this country's problem and this budget. It's just that it's not an answer and it can't be. You have an obligation and debt both to the citizens and to the public interest and to the national economic interests. This isn't a game. It just isn't. It can't be as simple as Dinkic needs for Fiat, you give so much. Look only at this absurd, we will rebalance the budget for Dinkic's fantasies about Fiat to separate a billion and 300, and he boasts that he expects 4 billion euros in investments in Serbia next year and Fiat will invest 600,000 euros in next year. How much have we spent so far? Hundreds of millions. Who's playing with us? Who's making fun of us? How long are you going to put up with that? A laugh and a circus. That's what I said in the principle debate. As long as you put aside those who can really be our development opportunity, Serbia will be squirming in problems and there we will get deeper and deeper and deeper and I said so. The development opportunity of agriculture, 600 million dinars for agriculture alone, not to return to the story of the milk market, etc. You have in the area of agriculture or following industrial branches a bunch of sectors in which you could objectively direct that money to give effect, to produce results. Additional money there to define and that's what we've proposed to our amendments. From the conditioning industry and beyond. You don't want to keep and help what you're accomplishing, and what in the projection, who knows how many years it takes to start creating something with a cap and a fist, and we're giving it from a budget that's hollow, we don't know where anymore. We have to accept this objectively. This cannot be accepted if we are to look for a 2011 budget projection in this. If the principles of economic, fiscal principles that you used to manage when you were putting together this rebalancing process are in place and when we put together and be done by 2011, it's difficult for this country and it's hard for all of us. Therefore, Mrs Dragutinovic, the SRS believes that you could objectively accept several amendments to hers, would not in any way endanger the state's medium-term development. What's unfortunate is that you might be forced to do something like that, and it doesn't matter to us. In any case, Serbia does not have a certain perspective in economic and fiscal terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47444	National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted the 2nd amendment together. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Rade Obradovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47445	Mr. Novakovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Dragutinovic, the word "deficit" that is often mentioned in our language sounds very nice, but it is always important to pay attention to nice words and fine letters. What does the deficit really mean? That means you earn less than you spend. The basic question for us in the Assembly is what is the deficit in Serbia today. One is what you admit and what is official, and what is the hidden deficit. What does a hidden deficit mean? How much the state owes to the construction and all the other companies and what it plans for another time. It is a deficit, except we don't see it in these papers and in this documentation that's ahead of us, and that's also important to all of us. The budget system law provides for a one-minute transition to a three-year budget, i.e. to make planning for a three-year period. So this rebalancing should be the introduction to next year's budget. When we look at what it says in this rebalancing, we have no idea what to hope for in 2011. Right, Mr. Varga? Mr. Varga is the chairman of the Committee on European Integration, if he says so, then there is no reason to doubt it. What happens next year? What's next year's deficit going to be? Can anyone estimate the rate of the euro next year? What will be the relationship between the NBS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia? The more the euro jumps, the more our debt will be, since our debt is in euros, the harder it will be to pay back and the bigger it will be. What happens to inflation? Where are those measures agreed by the Prime Minister and the governor of the NBS? There's no measure without the law. Those measures don't write these laws that we're discussing. In what way we will implement fiscal sustainability, if there is a constant delay in the moment when this will begin. I don't know if you've had a chance to see the IMF published a very interesting study of the consequences and problems related to fiscal sustainability at the beginning of this month. How are we going to deal with all these problems? It's hard to see from what's in front of us. I'm talking about whether we're coming out of a crisis or not getting out of a crisis. There is only one convincing and secure proof of leaving the crisis and that the country has solved some of its problems, which is employment growth. When the number of employees begins to grow in Serbia, and when the number of unemployed starts to decrease, not by rubbering them out of the records and praising them that they are no longer there are measures, which, if they do not apply within a certain period, are deleted, if they are not unemployed, but these people still do not have a job. At the same time, it is possible that the number of employees falls drastically and the number of unemployed falls drastically. Well, that's mathematically not possible. It is only when the number of employees begins to grow that we can talk about getting out of the crisis, and these documents and these laws that you propose have no argument, that there is not one element that will allow Serbia to start solving problems and exit the crisis.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47446	On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Here you go, Mr Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47447	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS has submitted a series of amendments, and in particular this amendment of mine refers to a guarantee. We have already expressed great dissatisfaction with the state and level of debt Serbia has today. This debt significantly endangers the country's economic future and it is necessary to bring it down to some reasonable, reasonable amount that this country, this nation, will be able to return to some future period. This kind of economic growth that we have, this situation in the economy doesn't guarantee that we can in the long run, that I'm not saying in the medium term that we're paying back debts that are getting bigger and more serious. In particular, when it comes to guarantees, the amount of about 196 billion dinars means two billion euros not full. What's frightening is that in the Republic Assembly, from session to session, we get an increasing number of laws that involve either borrowing this country or a new guarantee. Just yesterday, it seems to me that through guarantees, we have owed citizens of Serbia about 500m euros through direct borrowings. Also, a week ago, we had responsibilities, making public enterprises, which directly states, budgets for about 330m euros. Obviously, this borrowing trend is speeding up. It is obvious, unfortunately, that elections are approaching and that in all ways you are struggling to get the funds and the kind of economic growth. What's commendable is the government's answer. The government has made it very concrete and clear that the foreign exchange inflow affects the strengthening of the financial system, that it will improve the country's macroeconomic stability. Today, unfortunately, we don't have exports, we don't have the kind of inflow of foreign foreign funds we need, we don't have the privatisation funds, foreign direct investments are really minor, we don't have the ability of the economy to be in debt. We have a debt left to the state, that public enterprises are in debt, and what is the situation in public enterprises, which they are working with, I think most citizens are well-known today in Serbia. There are very few public enterprises that can boast of serious profits and I fear that a large part of these guarantees, or at least one good part, will fall on the burden of Serbian citizens, will mean an increase in this public debt. It is obvious that you may be able, with a level of public debt and to deceive the citizens of Serbia and to prove by some mathematics and statistics that public debt is small compared to gross domestic product, but you cannot, the IMF, it has limited you to 45%, it is aware that these public enterprises are often not realistic, they are not sustainable and that in good part they will fall on the burden of citizens, on the burden of some future governments and some future budgets. So, I think, unfortunately, it should be realized that we live on credit today, that we are a debt economy. Worse still, the level of these loans and interest on these loans is too high, we have one interest economy where citizens live worse and worse and the question is how they will succeed thanks to this economic policy and the credits in the future to return. There will be problems for the state too, because there will be no foreign exchange inflow based on which they will be able to repay these debts because our economy and our exports are in a catastrophic situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47448	Thank you. It was used two minutes and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. I'm now setting a break by 4:00, to allow the government to enter and take its seats. Mr. Krasic, since he can't speak so briefly, will have the first word after the break. The way, time and timing are explained before work begins. So we continue at 4:00 p.m. questions to the government, which I urge to enter the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47449	Dear People's MPs, since today is the last Thursday of the month, and in accordance with Article 205(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we approach the question of MPs in the period from 16:00 to 19.00 (Sending of SALANIAN QUESTIONS) Deputy Secretary-General of the Government of the Republic of Serbia by letter dated 25 November 2010, in accordance with Article 205(2) of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have informed that the following members of the Government are not able to attend today's session, at which the government is asked parliamentary questions: Ivica Dacic, the first vice-president, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, Jovan Krkobic, Deputy Prime Minister, Mladjan Dinkic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Regional Development, Oliver Dulic, Minister of Environment and Spatial Planning, Saša Dragin, Minister of Agriculture, Forest and Water Management, Snezana Malović, Minister of Justice, Petar Škundric, Minister of Mining and Energy, Dragan Sutanovac, Minister of Defence, Vuk Jeremic, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Milutin Mrkonjic, Minister for Infrastructure, Snežana Škundric, Minister of Mines and Sports, Minister of the Republic of Kosovo, Minister of the Republic of Kosovo, Minister for the Republic of Kosovo, Minister for the Republic of Kosovo, Ministers of Kosovo, Minister of Education and Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister for the Republic of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister for the Republic of Kosovo, Minister for the Republic of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister for the Republic of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister for the Republic of Kosovo, Minister for the Republic of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Ministers, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Ministers, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Ministers and Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister for the Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Kosovo, Minister of Please take care of the dignity of the Assembly, we MPs. Before we move on to asking parliamentary questions, let me remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which refer to the way MPs are asked. The MP shall have the right to ask a parliamentary question to the individual Minister or Government under their jurisdiction pursuant to Article 204(1). Rules of Procedure. The parliamentary question must be clearly formulated in accordance with Article 204(2). Rules of Procedure. The presentation of the MP asking the question cannot last longer than three minutes, as provided for in Article 204(4). Rules of Procedure. The President of the National Assembly will warn the MP who asks a parliamentary question if the question is not asked in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, or if it is not addressed to the competent authority. The government, or the minister, must reply orally immediately to the oral question. If a specific preparation is required to respond, they shall explain this to the MP in writing, within eight days of the date on which the question is asked, and as provided for in Article 206(1). Also, according to Article 207. The Rules of Procedure, following an answer to the parliamentary question, the MP who asked the question has the right to comment, for a maximum period of three minutes, on the answer to his question or on the additional question. Upon receipt of an answer to the additional question, the MP shall have the right to declare his response for a maximum of two minutes. During the duration of asking questions and giving answers, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia shall be applied accordingly, by not allowing replicas and references to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, as provided for in Article 216. Rules of Procedure. Accordingly, I ask the MPs to file applications to ask questions. At the same time, I remind you that the order for asking parliamentary questions will be determined according to the practice of work so far, so that, in turn, the first word will be given to MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, and then MPs from at least to the largest parliamentary group. We're moving on to asking MPs questions. The first registered speaker is MP Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47450	Dear Prime Minister, respected ministers, on 6 March 2009, I asked the question of the Minister of Economy and Regional Development in writing about what he would do to prevent discrimination announced by the public auction procedure, when privatising the Company of Bratstvo in Presevo? Although I reiterated that question on several occasions and verbally, to this day I have no answer to this very important question for the most underdeveloped municipality in the country. I also asked a written question to the Prime Minister on February 3rd this year, which I also have no answer to, and the question was asked after a superficial and non-essential response, which I received from Minister Dinkic, in connection with the disastrous privatisation of the protection company Elektrocontact in Presevo, which was sold for ridiculous 260,000 dinars, means that for 2,500 euros, a company that had 6,000 square metres of attractive building land, which is likely to sell at least 500,000 euros freely. Solid manufacturing machines, an object of 329 square meters and at least one apartment, which has already been sold for 20,000 euros, left 30 workers on the street and 30 workers who, at the time of privatisation, were fired, and have not yet been able to court by law to exercise their rights, which the buyer took over by contract. We're in the same situation with the July 7th company. There's workers on the street. They have not even managed the judicial way so far to enforce the law provided for. I am now asking the prime minister and the government whether they should go to Belgrade in front of the government, whether they should block the roads in order to achieve legal rights, to finally prevent catastrophic malfeasances in which social property is absolutely evaporated in a very short time, what the generations have been doing, and I am absolutely convinced that there are major manipulations, and that so far no concreteities have been done to stop it. We tried. Three minutes. ..... Deputy Minister Ciric promised to come to Presevo, but he did not come.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47451	Thank you, Mr. Halimi. Here you go. The Prime Minister wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47452	Good afternoon, everyone. I'm glad to see you after the break. I couldn't make it last time. I expect today will be filled with interesting questions and answers. As far as this particular question is concerned, unfortunately, we don't have a real minister here, so I'm going to pass on the question and we're going to try to give a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47453	Here you go, Mr. Halimi. You have the right to an additional comment or an additional question.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47454	I have an objection. I have not received any answers from Minister Dinkic until now. That's why I spoke to Prime Minister Cvetkovic. I expect, if Mr Cvetkovic is unable to answer specific questions, that people in the government take over from the Ministry of Economy and give answers to these questions. It's about life issues that need solutions, and it's urgent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47455	The word is from the MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47456	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, since there are no certain ministers, which I thought were necessary to present their views and views on the issues I'm going to ask, yet I think the Prime Minister is here and he will be competent to pass on what I will criticise here. My question concerns a catastrophic elemental disaster that has struck the citizens of the Kings. The prime minister had a chance to see for himself. In the context of the circumstances, we were together in Grdica, where the victims were recorded in the King. The question is whether the state will take some broader social action, in terms of collecting aid to the King for the modalities that used to be for Montenegro, Skopje and Banja Luka. Many of you who are older here, who are employed, know how much funds have been allocated to the parts of the SFRY for years. I think that something like this needs to be triggered because all the help that will come at this point will certainly not be enough through this budget rebalance and the rest of it, to repair the consequences of the King's earthquake. I would appeal to the Minister of Education and ask a specific question for him. Is it possible for certain colleges, at the scientific and teaching councils, to express their position to the students from the Kingdom, the group of New Serbia has already asked the question, but I will repeat it because the representatives of the government are there, that students from the territory of the Kingdom municipality, who are not on the budget, for 2010/2011. freedoms from paying tuitions at primary schools and higher schools. Also, I'd like to ask the Minister of Energy a question. Is it possible for the citizens of the King's tax to be reduced through accounts arriving to the citizens of the Kings, as well as the subscription of RTS over a period of one year? We welcome the action that the director of television had with the mayor of the Kings, but this is a principle of volunteering, so that the wider involvement of RTS through this kind of help would certainly welcome the citizens of the Kings, too much because there are no families in the King who have not suffered any harm, and priority is given to those who have lost their homes, houses, who now live in some conditions without their families, in their neighbours or in some collective centres.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47457	Mr. Milan Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47458	I've already had a chance to speak to an MP, since he's from the King. I have heard many ideas these days about how to help citizens individually, how to help the economy of kings and how to help the King in general. Given that various resolution ministries are in charge of implementing such ideas, next week we will have a meeting to determine the final list of measures the government can take, and we will do so in accordance with the proposals of the resolution ministries. I think the ideas you've put out are very good, but let's leave it to those in charge of system regulations and actions in a particular sector, that they give a final idea. Yesterday, the Serbian Chamber of Commerce was involved, also in line with our agreements and the co-ordinations we had. As for the economy, next week we will bring concrete measures that would go towards economic harmonisation. Right now we're focused on taking care of physical faces and that's what the focus of action is at this point. I expect that by the end of this year we will have more than a hundred installation houses set up, that by the end of this year we will be sharing the significant amount of material needed to repair housing. As far as collective housing facilities are concerned, rescue projects are being done. The idea is to do recovery projects. They are expected between January 15th and February 1st, and we expect this period to be the period when the restoration of objects of public character will begin. As for one school, music school, as far as the Institute of Public Health is concerned, they'll have to start over, from the ground up. This is in the shortest lines as things now stand in the King. We expect all children to be in school benches on Monday. At this point, another 2,323 are not in school benches, and tomorrow more than a thousand will leave, and Monday they will be in school benches. I would say that in this sense life is returning to some normal flows, and next week we will inform the public, in line with the proposals of resolution ministries that will be taken to that end. I find the ideas you brought to me personally and the ideas you have now presented very useful and I expect an answer from the competent ministries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47459	MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47460	Given the great problem that has hit the citizens of the Kings and given the shortness of time to ask all the questions, respecting all that the minister has said and all the efforts that the government has made, it was specifically my question to Mr. Minister that according to the moderations, as it was once made for Montenegro, for Macedonia, or for Skopje, to do something about Banja Luka, because this is something that is likely to solve many problems over a long period of time. Of course, it should not include citizens in Serbia who have their own income up to the average of receiving in Serbia, 34 000 to 35,000. These people should in no way be involved in any such action, since it is extremely difficult to live and since it does not meet their needs. Mr. Minister, with all due respect to everything you've said, I believe that everything I've said, let this be not a specific parliamentary issue, but an appeal for the entire government, the citizens of the Kings absolutely deserve all this because they've been opening their homes for the unsettled, for the refugees, for the displaced persons since 1941, and for the 90s through the wars, for refugees from Croatia, and for displaced persons from KIM in 1999, and all those faces, in view of this catastrophic disaster that came to the King, have suffered certain damage. So we have a reverse insurmountable problem in the King. One more thing, since the ministry's representatives are there, there must be another kind of help. This must be a good thing to do. We hope that it will help the citizens of the Kings, but make sure that what happened to the citizens of the Kings does not affect those projects that were to be done in the King before the earthquake, primarily the construction of a sports hall, a closed swimming pool. Let us not allow each other to be consumed, for in order for the material and immaterial damage of the citizens of the Kings to be met, all of this must be built and done. I appeal to the ministries that all the events that they have in terms of seminars, symposiums, social activities will bring to Mataruska, Vranjska Banj, because through this the King will live in the presence of the citizens of the Kings, or ministries and other people who will come to the Kingdom will surely show that the King is not only in this situation, without any desire to politicise. I say it out of my heart, because in the King it's much harder than the citizens of Serbia have any idea of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47461	Thank you. Minister Milan Markovic has a word. Would you like to get a pay phone?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47462	Mr. Spasojevic, I really appreciate all that you said because you said all this and out of the camera to me personally, so there's a lot of politicization. I know you're genuinely concerned about all this and it's been a pleasure talking to you, as we're going to talk about in the King. Make sure I'm the biggest lobbyist in this direction you've ever talked about. It's just objective possibilities. We will indeed do everything possible to help the citizens of the Kings. Right now our estimate of the preliminary in terms of objects is that it's something between two and two and a half billion dinars. When it comes to total damage without loss of profit, the problems of companies that are so few now seen, which are huge, the damage is over five billion, or over 50m euros, and it may even reach up to 100m euros. It is very difficult to assess now and in line with this, I am sure that in 2011 the sources of financing will be found by the King's earthquakes, especially in view of what you mentioned that the King before the earthquake was in a very difficult situation, caused by a number of economic problems, but the fact that the open doors received a large number of those people who needed to get away from it. Therefore, I hope that we will continue to cooperate on this matter. We'll do everything we can. Next week we will inform the public, and we will follow the situation together, open to any suggestion, criticism or good proposal. Thank you again for your help. I think you've helped a lot, and that's how it's gonna be in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47463	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47464	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Cvetkovic, the Honorable Minister and Minister, I will first read one sentence from the European Commission's report, with congratulations on what the Government has done so far, allowing us to get a questionnaire on which to work, and this sentence that describes these joint sessions of ours – the Assembly continues to regularly hold sessions attended by members of the Government. However, these sessions are formal, not contentual. We think it's bad, that there's no reason for anything like that, that the situation in which our society is, and we don't only think about the economic crisis, but all the other problems that shake us, in fact, is binding for both the government and the opposition that these are opportunities on which, with dialogue, controversy, uncompromising elements we need to formulate a policy with which we're going to change this country. Yesterday's meetings and announcements that we can expect confirmation of the candidacy next year are making a lot of commitment to us from the LDP, but also to the government. That is why I want to ask you, Mr Cvetkovic - what will the Government do to solve a compromising problem, to remove obstacles that are not due to our weakness, but to inability, not to use any other word and difficult term, governments or individuals in the government, and to remove any irregularities that follow the imminent and necessary reform of the judiciary? I'll be specific, Mr. Cvetkovic, I'll ask you. You are the Prime Minister who made a bill reforming our judiciary and forwarded the version of this proposal to the Venice Commission, the Council of Europe and the European Commission in Brussels. After that, we discussed the law here in Parliament. The MPs who elected you, the ruling coalition MPs are witnesses, as well as opposition colleagues, that we in LDP reform of the judiciary supported more content and with more arguments than the ruling coalition itself, but I must tell you that there is nothing that would make us agree to humiliate the Assembly and compromise our sincere intention to help this country build and affirm an absolutely equal branch of government, which is certainly judicial. How is it possible, Mr. Prime Minister, that one version of the law be sent into the world and the other one here to Parliament?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47465	Time. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47466	At first, I would like to thank you for the words of support related to European integration and to say that this support is very important to us, given the scope of the affairs ahead of us. As you know, we received a questionnaire of 2,483 questions and immediately organized ourselves in a way that would enable us to complete the questionnaire and return it by the end of January next year. I have to say that this questionnaire, or answer that questionnaire, will, on its basis, show the state it is, and that means that, apart from the questionnaires, it is of much greater importance to us, or at least if not more than the same, especially if we want to get candidate status and term for negotiations in the next calendar year, to act on the observations and suggestions given about our progress report. I mention this in particular, because when we had the talks yesterday in the allocation of questionnaires, in its essence, a much larger part of these talks was dedicated to the way and the organisation, how to ensure that an objective progress in the next few months was made in the direction of correcting certain shortcomings that were observed. In that context, you said well, one of them also refers to judicial reform. In fact, I must say that this problem was dedicated to a special meeting attended by the Minister of Justice and a delegation from the European Commission. I received information from that meeting, which is about to say that the meeting finally defines the tasks to be done and what it would be that, if we were to finish, we would positively end the judicial reform. I also have to say that I am not a lawyer and I don't understand all the legal issues that are open, but I am interested in personally being involved in the organisation of the implementation of the action plan that has been set up and spoken to. We also asked that we also have a link to the relevant representatives of the European Commission, who would follow progress in answering these questions. So my answer is that everything that has been given to us as an observation has been taken very seriously, and we will pay full attention to the answer, or to making progress in these elements, where, as you said, the judiciary is one of the six most significant issues.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47467	Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47468	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Cvetkovic, this is a major advance in our dialogue compared to all the sessions we have so far. I must tell you quite honestly that we were not born with a mistake, so that birth actually became disabled in the matter of reforming our judiciary, but obviously there was an intention to cheat and parliament, which in itself was not particularly difficult. Our European partners, of whom we expect understanding and support in one of the jobs we are doing, during yesterday's talks attended by representatives of parliamentary groups, say, I was ahead of your party and asked that our European future, the ability to arrest Mladic, never be conditioned again. It's obvious that this country is doing everything in its power to do this job. Why should someone trust us to do everything in this business, when it's obvious that we tried to trick them, without any need to reform the judiciary? And those are the facts. We reacted seven days ago, seeking an extraordinary session of parliament to discuss the judiciary, with one single motive, not to allow this government's prank, because unfortunately Mr. Cvetkovic's only description of what the government did to the Assembly, not to allow it to be an argument in unargued criticism of judicial reform. Because to the most extent, what shortened judicial reform was, in fact, the result of the resistance of those forces lost in the 2008 or 2000 elections, but kept their influence and control over the judiciary. That's why this job is so important. Those mistakes you're talking about, showing willingness to correct them, are deeply compromising. That's why we need to honestly talk about it, ask a question – why is that? Why are people elected to key institutions in the flea market atmosphere? This condemns Serbia and people to flea life. We don't want that. We want a reformed and independent judiciary. We propose that the first Deputy Prime Minister, Djelic, who is in charge of European integration, conduct a non-inquisitor investigation on his own, remove from this job all those who did this, and then change the laws here in parliament to allow for the full reform of our judiciary and thus deny all those criticisms that follow the reform of the judiciary, which is actually the ambition that never changes in Serbia to maintain acquired positions in another time, on grounds that are not judicial but deeply political.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47469	Time. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47470	I'm going to say very briefly that I don't believe she was and that she was becoming some intention to do something wrong. I know it was a big problem, and you said yourself that the judiciary was inherited as it is. I know it's a huge job. I know there's a huge number of opponents to the judiciary. I know this government has taken on a really, really hard job. The perception of errors with the help of people on the side, and the acceptance to enter into a solution, i.e. the correction of mistakes made, I think is one significant step that will lead us to this basic goal, which is candidate status, but also that will allow us to have the judiciary independent and perform exactly the function that is expected of it in one European state.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47471	National MP Slobodan Samardzic has a word. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47472	Okay, Mr. Prime Minister, clearly you can't say what I said, but it's your weakness, not my strength. We have great understanding for your minister of justice, much greater than the entire government. But this is not her private reform, among other things, we supported the reform in order to reduce the pressures it would face from those who needed to reform the Serbian judiciary. That's true. But we do not allow a sign of equality between our uncompromising desire to change the Serbian judiciary and bring out a clear court for everyone, to put a sign of equality between it, and to establish some new domination in the judiciary. We need to change the laws that will remove these systemic obstacles to the creation of the independent judiciary that your government has set up. It's impossible for that to happen. It is impossible to send one document to the Venice Commission, Brussels and the Council of Europe, and to send another version of the law here to the Assembly. Finally, don't force me to do this is a correspondence between the Government and the European Commission. It's been going on for months. It warns you that such a thing is impossible. We don't need Stefan File to educate us and teach us order, at least not to us from LDP, and I trust most of us in the Assembly, our need is free and independent justice and we will create it. The relationship to this anomaly must be rigorous, for it will be an example for any future abuse. We will assist you in this, both you and the Ministers of Justice and all those who seek this help, and we will not compromise you. You have unlawfully extended the funding of judges who have been set up in another time, you have violated your own law and you expect us to assure people that they respect those laws. These are just some of the indiscipline of your policy in the judicial reform process. We invite you back to that idea that you're working with and you're on your way, why you've got our support. Otherwise, you will have more opposition and critics in us than in any other opposition party.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47473	Ambassador Slobodan Samardzic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47474	Dear People's MPs, members of the government, Serbia is in one of the latest campaigns these days. It's a campaign I'd call 2,500 questions. So, I'm not talking about the fact that Mr. File came to Belgrade and brought so many questions to which so many answers should be given, but I'm talking about a campaign, so something that's part or most important part of this process of European integration, which is convincing the people that it's all actually going to some of its established course and with pretty good results. As that thing really stands, it's a topic for another story, in any case, I would just briefly say that these campaigns are something that goes by road, and our reality of approaching the EU and European integration is going by noise. However, there is one area of government policy that is just the other way around, so a policy that seems quite successful, and not to have some campaign, but to be kept silent, constantly silent, and the politics itself is kept in one great secret. It is a policy of Euro-Atlantic integration, therefore, something similar to European integration, and it is essentially something else. In that matter, the government seems to have good results, but the public and citizens of Serbia have no idea. If that were the case, I would illustrate in one sentence, although there are more but most important sentences from the declaration of NATO's last summit in Lisbon, which took place in 18/19. November of this year. So that sentence is -- we welcome and continue to support the express commitment of the Serbian government to Euro-Atlantic integration and to welcome the strengthening of co-operation between NATO and Serbia. So, the commitment of the Serbian government to Euro-Atlantic integration is welcomed. So, my question here, I see Vice President Djelic here, he deals with European integration, and this is in some relationship, so to him. When and where did the Serbian government decide that Serbia should join Euro-Atlantic integration? I want to say that Euro-Atlantic integration, as well as European integration itself, would mean that the state has or is leading its policy with a view to entering that organisation one day, these are European integrations and just because it is a policy to fully integrate into the system, it can be undermined by the expression of integration. For NATO, I do not know that Serbia has such a policy and that it has ever made such a decision. In addition to that question -- when such a decision was made, I would like to ask another question for Mr Djelic in this regard. Is Euro-Atlantic integration and European integration a two-way thing or is it one and the same track? If it's a two-track thing, what's the difference?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47475	Mr. Bozidar Djelic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47476	Mr. Samardzic, it's hard to go against reality. The reality is that the EU Enlargement Commissioner was in Belgrade yesterday and brought a questionnaire. The questionnaire is a key moment for obtaining candidate status, which the commissioner himself said was expecting next year, that it is within the realm of reality and said there is also a possibility that Serbia could open formal negotiations to join the EU by the end of the term of office of the government. Mr Samardzic, I don't know what is forest for you, what is road and what is ditch, but what is certain is that those policies that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia chose in the previous elections yield results. Not only has the transitional trade agreement been signed, not only has the EU decided to start the ratification process of the Stabilisation Agreement and 11 countries have ratified the document, which is a very fast rhythm that confirms the determination of EU countries to see Serbia as soon as possible as possible as a full member. I also want to thank the Republic of Austria because last week unanimously, and we know that there are not many domains in that country where at least everyone agrees on one thing, the whole of Austria has agreed to ratify the Stabilisation Agreement with our country. Finally, on October 25th, all EU countries unanimously gave the European Commission the green light to come to yesterday's visit and that Serbia is working to gain candidate status. If anyone needs a little more evidence than this, I don't know if you need more, but I think all of our citizens are very clear. More than two-thirds of our citizens want Serbia to become an EU member, and no one in our country or very rare idealise such a structure. There is a gap between the percentage of our citizens who want Serbia to be a full member and those who have a positive opinion of the EU and I think that's good. It is good that we have no illusions about the fact that possibly Europe would solve all our problems, because that will not happen. We need to solve our problems on our own. On the other hand, our citizens see well that this is one contribution to stability and peace and through significant support for the European budget. Here, for example, this morning, through the support of the European budget in Pogorevec, we gave 20 keys to internally displaced persons, mostly Roma from Kosovo, that is 400,000 euros. I don't know what reality is, but believe me, what they told us is that one big contribution to their lives. Now, about Euro-Atlantic integration. Austria is not a NATO member already mentioned, it is an EU member. Vice-President Biden, during a visit last year, said in talks and afterwards said that at a press conference, that America would like Serbia to become a NATO member, but that it is not after seeing America leading that alliance condition to join the EU. I was present with President Tadic and at a meeting with Mr Sarkozy, who confirmed the same after that, that France, which, by the way, returned to NATO after a long period of absence, does not expect Serbia to join the NATO Pact, the alliance, to become an EU member. Here things are very clear and in this home your party and the party I belong to voted for a resolution declaring our country's military neutrality. It should not be surprised, therefore, that if it is about Serbia, the NATO Alliance, which is not the EU, and when it talks about relations with our country, it talks about Euro-Atlantic, because it is a Euro-Atlantic organisation. I would like to remind you, Mr Samardzic, that during the government led by your party's president, Serbia became a member of the Partnership for Peace and when Mr Kostunica received this in a dowry from President Tadic, who largely provided it, not only did you not refuse that gift, but you and past DS, who was not then in the government, the beginning of working within the Partnership for Peace. We thank you for that, and therefore this government, of course, continues to work within the framework of the Partnership for Peace. It is a framework for working for Serbia that will fully fulfill it in a way that, for example, meets a Russian Federation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47477	Thank you. Mr. Samardzic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47478	You, Mr. Prime Minister, have made more comments about what I said than you have answered my question. But when it comes to this famous reality that you're talking about, I would remind you that Serbia has paid a very large price for these steps in the reality it has received, visa liberalisation, and this package of 2,500 issues. In addition to that general price she paid to give up Kosovo, to get into all this, I will remind you that visa liberalisation was obtained when Serbia gave up its citizens at KIM, that they cannot enjoy the benefits of visa liberalisation. It's a fact and it's a reality. Secondly, this questionnaire would never have come if Serbia had not accepted the EU resolution, which it wrote for the UN General Assembly. Serbia wrote its resolution. There was no stone left on the stone, another resolution was written and a questionnaire was received. We know the price for every success and every great reality you speak of. There's as much price as you want. You're talking about a trade agreement. It cost, you don't have official data, you only have one official record that between March and May 2009 it cost 30m euros, which is big, that's your data. For the whole year, according to that data, it cost four times as much, so 120m euros. Serbia paid 120m euros for the trade agreement, which no country that signed the SAA has paid. So that's reality and that's that price. When it comes to questions you haven't answered is the next thing. I read one part of this resolution. I don't know if you read it. Namely, what you said about the Partnership for Peace and if this is the level and dimension of Serbia's co-operation with NATO, you must deny this resolution. It says here that they welcome Serbia's definition of Euro-Atlantic integration. Euro-Atlantic integration is not a Partnership for Peace, it's something much more. It is the country's decision to co-operate with membership and there is no such decision, and that is the purpose of my question. So you're either going to have to deny what the Summit and NATO did, and I expect your proper courage in that regard, or admit that they're right, and that you're actually hiding that fact. That's my question I didn't get an answer to.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47479	Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47480	Mr. Samardzic, we've been in government together and I have to say that we've often had very contentious discussions, but it seems to me that you're getting more and more mad at some school debates that have nothing to do with what's real. That's what I'm telling you honestly. Where do you get the idea that when NATO cannot say anything other than that it is a Euro-Atlantic organisation because it is, when it welcomes our relations that exist only in that legal framework, which is defined by the resolutions brought by this assembly, you are trying to find some form of analysis or psychoanalysis of NATO, what would they want to say by commending us? They don't want to, they can't praise anything else than what we're doing and what's our country's official policy, our country, and it's military neutrality. One more thing, I'm aware you're not an economist. However, it is important for European integration to know a few figures. Let me quote you a few of them. In December 2000, the EU decided unilaterally to lift customs duties on products exported from the Republic of Serbia. The savings, quite officially, represent more than two billion euros, which our exporters would have paid if there had not been such unilaterally allocated trade preferences. The figure you quoted is those customs duties, the lack of customs duties, which we did not charge because, of course, as a future EU member, in line with the signed Stabilisation Agreement, we started to apply. It was not for nothing either, because, as we know very well in December of last year, the EU decided to accept the implementation of the 2009 transitional trade agreement as proof of our capacity to implement the whole Stabilisation and Association Agreement. In this way, we have saved a year to measure that transitional time, because it is a Stabilisation and Association Agreement in the transition to the state of the signed Agreement and to join the EU. About all of this, including those famous debates over Article 135. The Stabilisation Agreement, then some questions, I think it is best for our citizens, who look at us, for those who have the Internet to go to the Government of Serbia's website and to see well on the sides of two, that, as was the case with the Stabilisation Agreement, the Kosovo issue is seen exclusively in light of UN Resolution 1244. For those who do not have the Internet, it is here in the same way that it was with the Stabilisation Agreement, where we negotiated together, Mr Samardzic, remember, this document is statusally neutral on Kosovo. When we talk about the EU and the resolution we have submitted, I must tell you that the way you represent and the way that does not speak favorably about your relationship with our allies regarding Kosovo within the EU, because one Spain, one Greece, one Slovakia, one Cyprus, and how our allies were to make it very clear that in no way is Kosovo's independence recognised, because there are those who have not recognised and the opposite of what many have said will happen if Serbia submits such a UN resolution, that 50 countries will recognise Kosovo, that is not the case. We have Honduras, with a government whose legitimacy many countries dispute at this point, of course, it's the statehood of Honduras, there's Kiribati and Tuvalu. We will agree, we are far from 50-60 countries that many have said will happen when such a resolution is passed. This is very clear to our allies, and because of this, the fact that we have submitted one resolution and where we are calling for dialogue with Pristina, it is obvious that anxiety exists in Pristina, it is now very clear that the dialogue that we have with full support of all EU countries and those who unfortunately have recognised Kosovo and those who have not recognised Kosovo are a strong asset in our hands for the upcoming dialogue that will be much less asymmetric with much more balance than was the case before.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47481	National MP Slobodan Samardzic, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47482	I'll be much shorter than Mr. Djelic. First, when you mentioned our joint action in the government, I'll remind you of something in the terminology, I was the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Serbian Government. We've had our differences over this termology several times. The defence ministry sought to call this whole process Euro-Atlantic integration, Serbia's co-operation with NATO. I was against it and we threw those expressions out because Euro-Atlantic integration means a decision to enter NATO one day. Therefore, if NATO welcomed Serbia's decision to accept Euro-Atlantic integration as I quoted, then you must deny it. As for your explanation of the preferences and of what we have damaged, by prescribing, or by implementing a unilateral trade agreement with the EU, it is one of the most common things. Its EU preferences give to every country that enters the status of a potential candidate not only gives status to every country, but also to many countries around the world. It's nothing new to her. It's some zero position of her trade policy towards the whole world. It only imposed a commitment on Serbia, or Serbia itself made an obligation to unilaterally apply the Trade Agreement and thus pay customs. So, regardless of how the EU does not apply these same agreements. Tell me, please, one country in Europe that has had special costs in its customs policy towards the EU, I mean that agreement that it has implemented, of the Trade Cooperation Agreement. No country except Serbia, and no matter how much damage it is, and it can be between 30 million and 250 million. That's some range where the polemics were. Serbia is the only one who paid, and you are now speculating that Serbia has paid only about 30 million, and it has received 2 billion. Other countries have gained even more by being freed by the EU. That's the difference I insist on. Finally, as far as this UN Resolution is concerned, you are actually making a complete mistake here, is the resolution advocates dialogue with Pristina, but you gave up on what you claimed until the day before the adoption of that resolution, which is that you will open negotiations on Kosovo's status. I'm sure of what I'm saying. You have actually taken it off the agenda and moved on to what the EU has ordered you to do. He can write in those papers whatever he wants, and that Resolution 1244 is in effect. It's important how the state behaves, and she de facto recognizes the state, it's not worth it. The chairman. The word is from MP Dejan Mirovic. Dayan Mirovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since it is a very important issue for the RS and its citizens and in economic, political and any other sense, my question is addressed to Prime Minister Cvetkovic and please answer me in a clear and defined manner. The question is - why are you selling Telekom, a company that had a net profit of 150m euros only in 2009. Why are you selling a company that has 10,000 employees, and you said in an interview with the press daily that it's because it's supposed to be better private than the state. However, after the major economic crisis and the practical privatisation by the US government, Fani May and Freddy Mecca do not stand at all. Also, you certainly know as an economist that the English state has practically nationalized a large part of the eight largest banks on the island. You certainly know that Germany, from which the potential buyer, the most serious potential buyer, Deutsche Telekom, comes from, has provided a great deal of help to Dresden Bank. So, that's your excuse that private property is better than state property, you'll allow 2008 is not true. You also have a letter from the professional public, in fact from 130 of the most famous experts in this area from Berkeley, Colombia, other universities in America, Australia, Switzerland, who decidently oppose the sale of Telecom. On the other hand, the union held one session in Banja Luka on November 12th and workers again, so not only did the professional and economic public say against it. On the other hand, in your government, the Deputy Prime Minister claims that Telecom is being sold for debt repayment. You were the finance minister in 2007, you know that it was sold before that "Mobtel" and the money went to repay the debt, and you certainly know that from 2006 to 2008, the external debt of the Republic of Serbia rose from $19 billion to $30, so that economic reason doesn't stand. Also, explain to me how it is possible that exactly the minister present here in an interview for the NIN on 21 October, if I am not mistaken, says that after the sale of Telecom, the prices of services will increase, there will be layoffs, so there is no economic reason to sell Telecom. So I ask you specifically to answer this question and tell me if Telecom is being sold because the European Commission's representative in Serbia, Mr. Deger, requires it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47483	The word is made by Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47484	Dear People's MP, if I would like to give you a concrete answer to this last question, that is whether Deger or any of us in the EU is asking us to sell Telecom, the answer is no. Why is he really on sale that's the thing I want to talk about and give you the answers, but of course I'm relying on some of the things you mentioned. Only the issue of selling Telecom has its own, so to speak, professional reasoning and pro and counter arguments, but of course it also has its own political connotation. When we look at the political connotation, there is one rather strong position that is generally about - that public enterprises are the prey of political parties and that the only way to stop them from being is for the state to come out of their ownership. I believe that attitude also supports the majority of you sitting here independent of which foreigners belong. Therefore, the question of whether or not to sell Telecom from this point of view exists in a certain sense in a very different way than in the way it is set. So, on the one hand, you have just one insistence to get the state out of public enterprises, and on the other, it stands on my surprise, and suddenly there's a whole other requirement for the state to survive in a public enterprise. I would now like to move on to the economic field and give an answer, not from a political point of view, but from an economic point of view. The state should not deal with the economy, should not collect profits from its public enterprises, and should practically remain only in those sectors and segments of economic activity, which otherwise have high external effects and for which you do not have interested private investors to remain in them. As long as you have a monopoly, and we are practically in a period of transition coming out of a monopolies economy and moving towards a market economy that we have achieved in a good way, but not completely, you have to keep the state in monopoly sectors for a while, so you don't create private monopolies. It was a typical situation with Telekom Srbija. By opening up the possibility of creating competition, besides mobile telephony, that it now enters the fixed telephony segment, we "Telecom" Serbia are exposed to a sharp competition that he cannot withstand unless he has the opportunity to participate in a competition based on an identical starting position as other competitors. What does that mean? If you didn't sell Telecom, not only would it not make those profits you're talking about, but it would have to go down and down because it would face competition that's much more flexible, not related to problems that are otherwise related to all public enterprises, not to the salaries of the manager, not to the salaries of the company itself. It's a much better and more efficient solution for private firms. So opening up competition is a sure sign and a commitment to start selling Telecom. On the other hand, who doesn't need to sell Telecom, because it's making profits, because it probably has the next sentence behind it, and those profits need to be taken by the state, which has been the case so far. It is this kind of activity that is a sure way to stop development in one pro-pulsive branch that is basically infrastructure and necessary for the development of all other branches. What you're saying about certain interventions of the state that occurred during the crisis and which were short-lived, I must tell you that we also have major interventions in the branches that were ahead of the collapse, such as the railways, coal mines with underground exploitation, etc. It's something that's not politics and that's not specific, and we'd like to get out of it as soon as possible. So, it doesn't exist, and you mentioned the professional public who is against the sale of Telekom, and I haven't heard that professional public. I've heard individuals. Looking at the whole, the most people I've talked to, and believe me, I've had the chance to talk to them a lot, I haven't heard any serious professional opposition selling Telekom. The second question is now about the debts I'm going to look back on after you ask me a question.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47485	Dejan Mirovic's additional question, three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47486	I'm specifically asking you right now: who are these people you've been talking to? This is a public document, public petition 103 distinguished experts from America, Britain, Australia, these are experts working on the most prestigious universities in the world. Please, this has been made public in our public. I don't know who these people are, please tell me. Secondly, these were not short-term measures. If you convince me that Fanny May, Freddy and Mac have become private firms again, I'll say you're right. If you convince me that a month ago Hippo Alpe Adria did not get a guarantee from the Austrian state, I'll say you're right, but that's not the case. In economic terms, everything changed after 2008 and you can't deny it. On the other hand, I agree with you, you said there are political elements in the sale of Telecom. That's what the union claims, and so do these experts, and so do we, but then we should say it openly and say that no economic interest of our citizens who make up this country has to sell such a successful perhaps only a successful public enterprise. We can talk about the railway, we can talk about other losers, but tell me at the moment of the economic crisis when your President of the Republic says that the economic crisis will last another year, you're selling one company that makes a net profit of 150 million euros, that's about 10% of the budget deficit somewhere. It doesn't make any economic sense. You're saying it's a monopoly of domestic enterprises. Is there a better monopoly of domestic enterprises or Deutsche Telekom, which will generate profits towards Germany and the EU, which is clear to fire a large number of employees, which you have not denied, which will increase service prices? If that monopoly is better for our country, then I really don't know what to tell you? Please answer my question specifically – what is the economic interest in selling Telecom? When it comes to political interest, I understand that, but it's not the topic we're talking about today. Secondly, it's our people, 10,000 employees, which is almost 10% of all public sector employees. These people have families, they have their own people who support them, they're not some imaginary people who live on another planet, so now, because of some failed economic theories that turned into dust, we're selling a public company. Please answer me specifically. You're an expert man, and in an economic way, why are you selling Telecom?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47487	The word is made by Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47488	Dear People's MPs, first of all, I want to say that I don't think this is a forum that we would discuss whether the concept of market economy has been abandoned in the world and we've moved on to state governance. I'm saying that's not true. If you think the state was supposed to go back to business, then that's something I've heard for the first time now. I've heard of the individual interventions we've been talking about, but that the concept has changed as you say – it's absolutely incorrect. As for the very economic logic of the sale, I've already tried to explain it to you, but, if you want, I'll repeat it. By opening up the competition in a sector where you say yourself that it works 10 thousand people, and I guess you'll have a problem with it being left to work eight thousand, so basically, we would, if we left those 10,000 people behind and let go of the competition, then in a few years, it would be zero, because that competition would take over the market. We're just trying to protect those eight, not ten, we're going to sell it, not destroy those 10,000 people. Secondly, this dividend that is withdrawn from this, it is worse to extract dividends from companies and to use it for state needs, because others who are involved in that market, which are also creating the same dividend, will use their dividend to strengthen and modernise their capacities. If you think it's possible to artificially stay on the market with one, let's say, state-of-the-art management, I'm telling you that it's not true and that wherever the country has competition and not withdraws from the sector, it stays inside, its businesses always lose that game. I mentioned problems with public procurement, actually, now I mention them. I mentioned problems with people. You can't go into a public company that's a state property to give an adequate salary to management because then it's looked at in a different way. If you don't have an adequate salary, you don't have adequate management. And not just management, you can't give engineers as much pay as they'll give that competitor of yours. So, there are thousands of reasons to say that this may be the last time to enter the privatisation of Telecom, because by staying in state property, with competitors showing up, he can only lose. Of course, there's another story here, and that's why there's a pretty big opposition, which is that Telecom has a series of local suppliers on its side who are afraid that the big player's coming is going to lose his job. I am firmly convinced that this is not true and that they will continue to provide these services as they have so far, primarily fighting to remain on the market with their quality and their prices. If they succeed, and I'm sure they will, then their fate and even their growth is guaranteed, not just the growth of the telecommunications sector as a whole.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47489	The word is by MP Dejan Mirovic. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47490	Unfortunately, you haven't answered my specific question. Who are these people, who are these experts who claim it's economically cost-effective to sell Telecom? Secondly, I'm going to give you a concrete example of what will deny you in terms of state and private ownership. It's the City Bank, the City Group, which is a privatization advisor, look at miracles, and Telecom and Deutsche Telecom, and you certainly know that as an economist, 45 billion dollars just from the FED and the U.S. finance ministry. Please, it disproves everything you said in the previous presentations. Also, I don't think that economic growth can only be reduced to GDP, the phrases about competition, the phrases about the EU without an alternative, but it's the main thing for people to work and not lose their jobs and to increase their employment from day to day. If you think it's okay to be more unemployed in Serbia and that our people are losing their jobs, to be higher prices after privatisation and that it's good for some economic theory that's obviously no longer in the field of reality, then I really don't know what to tell you. Then, again, it is political reasons for selling Telecom, and it should be made clear and loud, and it should be accepted accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47491	The word has a national emissary, Natasa Vučković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47492	Dear Prime Minister, members of the government, we return to the issue of European integration. Yesterday, the Commissioner for Enlargement handed us a questionnaire from the European Commission, which was, of course, an expected step after last month's Council of Ministers' decision to forward our application for membership to the European Commission. It is certainly one of the very important moments in the process of our European integration. The government announced a team yesterday of very high dynamics and optimism, if I may say so. They announced the maintenance of European integration councils, the development of an action plan in the very short next period, and that the government would send the answers to the questionnaire to the European Commission by the end of January 2011. However, today when we look at the questionnaire, and we've all had opportunities to get acquainted with this document today, it seems to us all to be a very big job. I'm simply curious what the government is building on its optimism that by the end of January this big deal will be able to do? Another issue that also concerns the European integration process is – what does the government intend to do in 2011 on the plan of further strengthening our administrative capacities? Serbia, of course, is being commended in continuity for the strength of its administrative capacity from European integration, but we are also aware of the need to have a significantly stronger administrative capacity at the moment we open EU membership negotiations. Does the government also see the problem as it intends to start solving in the following year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47493	The word is made by Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47494	If I may, I will try to give an answer, and Vice President Djelic will answer the question. I would like to remind you that at the moment this government was formed, our European integration was at the very beginning, and before the government was formed, on the question of whether it would go that way at all. After the formation of the Government, there was first ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in this Parliament, followed by the start of the implementation of the Transition Agreement, then the liberalisation of the visa regime and our delivery of the application for full membership, and then the transmission of our application to the Commission. Yesterday we had this solemn moment when the questionnaire was delivered to us. So, as you can see, practically from the very beginning of European integration, almost all major events have occurred since the formation of this government. We want to continue at this pace and expect, as I have already said, that in the next year, not only should we submit the questionnaire and answer further questions, but also to get a positive opinion, candidate status and plus to set a date for the start of negotiations. So that's our goal. We had opportunities at today's session to hear one opposition MP who is not satisfied with our impact on European integration. I took that as the biggest compliment, given that he came from a party that was, at least so far, against European integration, and now I see that he would probably want them to be caring, as soon as he wasn't satisfied with what we had the chance to do. I promise we'll speed up what's up to us, this whole job, and if we're ready, we've made teams, we've made action plans, and we're going to work intensively to make what's left of us come true next year. As far as administrative capacity is concerned, you are right, we must count on strengthening our administrative capacity and especially in areas where even some, if you will, new areas, with which we have not had the opportunity to do and do so together and in agreement with our partners from the European Union. I would just like to remind you that when we make a decision to reduce this public sector and costs, we have excluded those parts and jobs that are related to European integration and be assured that in this context we will make sure that we respond to our obligations.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47495	Would you like to ask an additional question? National MP Natasa Vuckovic, additional question, three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47496	I would only ask for an answer to the question – how is it planned to fulfil the obligation that the Government itself has announced to provide answers to all questions by the end of January? I understand that some advances of answers have already been prepared in advance, because you've been anticipating a number of questions. Finalizing the answer is something to follow. How will this work be done by the end of January, since it is a very big job?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47497	The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47498	A large number of our citizens know that since December of last year, so more than a year, we decided to give a warrant to our administration to prepare the answers based on the questionnaires received by our neighbours, which are a little further in this process than we are. It was done and in May this year we prepared all the answers, some of them had already been translated into English, not all of them, based on these other people's questionnaires. The first flat-rate analysis based on our official questionnaire shows that somewhere between 80 and 90 percent of the question is something that covers less or more, mostly more than less, with this previous work. That is why, as was the case with the implementation of the Transition Trade Agreement, which he essentially saved in Serbia for a year, this paper shows that the way Serbia treats European integration is not some, to say, approach to waiting, to delay, to do when we have to, but we have enabled this work to have the European Commission with us yesterday, and this is also the Prime Minister's announcement, to speed up further, and that the opposite of what we said by yesterday, which is that we will prepare by the end of the first quarter next year all the answers, we will do so by the end of January next year. That's possible, most of all thanks to this previous work. I am grateful to all those in our administration who are often forgotten, who have been very dedicated and without any obligation to do so. Yesterday we already had a meeting with them, at 10.00 hours we had a meeting with Mr. Phil, at 12:00 we had a meeting with the Council on European Integration, which will be included, as will this assembly, as well as social partners, as local self-government, civil society, social partners, all of us will be involved in working on the answers to this questionnaire, because we want these answers not only to be some dry formal bureaucratic work, but to really be a way to speed up reforms in our society. How did we organize ourselves? By already today, and this is important for our citizens, we will underline that this questionnaire is organised around all future chapters based on which we will negotiate for our EU entry. In other words, if we look at a few months in advance, when we finish later on the questionnaire and in February, and by June of next year, we get additional questions, the European Commission is sending technical missions to see if everything is really as we say in this memo, we will have the opinion of the European Commission, which, I am deeply confident, will not only recommend that Serbia get candidate status at the end of next year, but also what is more important, it is that it gives us the date when and formal negotiations to enter the EU will begin. We want the best for our neighbours, but in one word of warning, Montenegro, whom we congratulate for the European Commission's recommendations, which will be translated to obtain candidate status in December this year, the same Montenegro did not get a date for starting EU entry negotiations. Albania, whom we congratulate for being on the expectations of their citizens and which is now a reality, within a few days, that they, as with our citizens, can travel without visas to Schengen, Albania has not received candidate status, so that this process for Serbia looks good, but has no guarantee. Our efforts, our work, the work on reforms in the first half of next year on the basis of the response, but also the action plan, which will be adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the middle of next month, which will focus primarily on those key points of the reform programme identified in the European Commission report, is all that gives us confidence that we will not only get candidate status, but we will start negotiations. What we will do next year on the part of the European Commission will be their starting position for the negotiations and what we will determine through the work on this questionnaire and obtaining candidate status will be the initial negotiating position of the Republic of Serbia for what will be the multiannual process of negotiations and finally, EU accession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47499	National MP Natasa Vučković, commentary, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47500	I thank you for your answers. I would just like to make one comment on your answers, to draw attention to one opinion, which says that European integration consists of three elements, one is reform, the other is partnership with the EU and negotiation and the third is communication. I would like to draw the government and the public's attention to a study done this week, a BBC survey on how our citizens are informed of European integration, where it is pointed out that reporting is quite bureaucratic, that there is no picture of how the reform will be a improvement for citizens. Of course, criticism refers to the media and is how they will learn from this research, but I think that for us as a parliament, but also for you as a government, it is very important that we take this research into account. It is up to us in Parliament to improve the debate on laws and improve communication with citizens, but I think that the government should also take a step forward that in the coming year, which will certainly be crucial in the process of our European integration and in the application of the reforms that we have initiated, that the information it provides to citizens is more concrete, more life-saving and that indeed citizens can understand how a certain new standard, the new value that we are introducing into our system, will be something that represents a improvement for their lives and for their work. I think that only if we understand reform can we count on reducing the resistance to reforms on the other hand, that we will ensure their acceptance and real application. That's my proposal to the government to improve communication next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47501	The word has a folk MP, Aleksandra Jankovic, and after that, MP Zoran Ostojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47502	The question was addressed to Ms. Justice Minister, and since justice is absent today, I will ask the same question to the prime minister. Is the proceedings against ten members of the Patriotic Association "The Face", arrested on 10 October 2010, a violation of the elementary rules of criminal proceedings, since there is no evidence in the court files that would support the suspicion that the defendants committed a criminal offence that they are being charged with and are still in custody? I must say, Mr. Prime Minister, if you are not informed that ten members of Obraz – Mladen Obradovic, Krste Milovanovic, Milos Popovic, Marko Lazarevic, Dusan Ilic, Dobrice Radonjic, Igor Marinkovic, Nikola Vidovic, Srdjan Savivić and Nemanje Armus, are being held in Belgrade. Except for Krsta Milovanovic, who was deprived of his freedom on October 14th, all were arrested on October 10th, when your Pride Parade was held in Belgrade. On that occasion, Secretary of State Homen promised the public that the state's response would be creepy, senior prosecutors and senior court judges in Belgrade are clearly trying hard not to disappoint him. In order for the state to respond to the youth conflicts with the police to be truly creepy, it was necessary that the arrested persons remain in custody as long as possible until the trial begins. To achieve this, their alleged transgression had to be brought under the weight of a crime for which the prison sentence had been threatened for over 10 years. After longer thinking, perhaps confidential advice from those who require a gruesome response from the law enforcement authority, Deputy Public Prosecutor Vera Stanic qualified alleged crimes as violent behaviour at a sports event or a public gathering. Not to argue that on October 10th there was physical violence on the streets of Belgrade, I responsibly argue that this violence did not happen either at a sports event or at a public rally because the pride parade was not a public gathering at all. In fact, a public gathering in the legal theory is considered such a gathering of citizens that everyone can participate in in principle. So, let's say, every sports event is a public event provided that those who bought the tickets can attend or come in on time if the entrance is free of charge. So the pride parade wasn't a public gathering, it was a private party. They could come to the meeting place by going through three outings of police protection only those who had invitations and were on the invite list, such as coming to private parties or birthdays. Even none of the uninvited could set foot on the streets to which that parade was to pass or stand on the sidewalk on nearby streets. In other words, there was nothing public about it except public daunting when the footage of this extraordinary parade was shown and when police proved to be very protective of the Pride Parade, as protected by fairies and residences of a number of state officials. None of the detainees and defendants can be put on the burden of violent conduct at a public rally because there was no public meeting on October 10th.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47503	Three minutes. The word is made by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mirko Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47504	Dear People's MPs, I answer because I think it's polite to answer the question, even though I can't go in with you in the controversy of the definition of the public assembly, whether or not something is or isn't, but in any case, I believe that if someone broke the law in the sense that they've overcome what's in the law, using regular means, they can handle it. I really don't know who these people are or when they're arrested, but since you asked the question, with this finding I've given, I'll pass it on to my colleague, Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47505	Right to an additional question, three minutes, MP Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47506	Mr. Cvetkovic, I'm also not an expert on these issues, but I am informing myself, I wonder who they are, and then I have the right to ask a question. Of course, all the defendants have the means to defend themselves, but what's question number two is why after more than a month and a half, although there's no evidence of anyone who's been in custody for a month remains in prison with the inability to defend himself from freedom. The next question for you who are the layman in this area, as well as for me, but you are the prime minister of this government: who is the B92, the Insider, selected as state attorneys and judges? You know, what we've had a chance to see on this television code, on this show on two occasions, are accusations against everything that is Serbian, not only against an organization like "Duveri", "The Face", "1389", fans, Metropolitan Amphilochy, Vojislav Kostunica, but against all of us who don't want to give up our national identity, our spirituality, morals, language, letter, history, national culture and statehood, meaning, against all of us who can't agree with the so-called transparency. "Death to the State" parade. Who authorized B92 and Insider to be the prosecution before the prosecution. If the lack of formal education allows them to be editors on that television, it is nevertheless necessary for prosecutors and judges to be formally educated and appointed. Next thing I know, a man works in your government, do you support Secretary of State Home's statement that the state's response will be creepy? What does that really mean? Does this mean calling on totalitarian democracy? You know, this kind of media pressure is very similar to some of the former times that we've all fought, the times of some dedicated films, the guys who disappear from photos, fake documentaries. Isn't it against the constitution, Mr. Cvetkovic, to stir up hatred for the second and different opinion by showing with music from the American horror film "Prediction" the order of the Metropolitan Amphilochy, then the order of fans, then "The Dvori" and "The Face", and the priestly faces are depicted as formerly Chetniks in Bulajić's films? You know, cult film producers of Texas Motor Test Massacre don't dream of what kind of gifted people are hiding here on the Veran Matic team. Insider also appears exorcis himself, Mr. Bifrod Jr., which is an exorcis when it comes to researching right-wing organizations. The man actually unites Scully and Mulder in the same person. Mr Cvetkovic, the only thing that is stable in Serbia is her responsibilities and chronic dissatisfaction of young people. Are you aware of that?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47507	Three minutes. The word is made by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mirko Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47508	Since you asked me directly, I really don't know who authorized or gave any media the right to do anything, especially I wouldn't want to interfere with editorial policy or speak positively or negatively about the media. My answer is I don't know. As for the question of a creepy answer, I have to say that I wouldn't use that term, I'd say uncompromising. We talked about that term "scary" and it was more the subject of some colloquial performance, and less the desire to show that behind it stands a saw, etc. In any case, I think we should start with that the state's response must be uncompromised to impact on its basic foundations.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47509	Right for two minutes, extra comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47510	Mr. Cvetkovic, thank you for being polite enough to answer questions, but definitely, sometimes you have to get involved in your business. You can't be uninformed, you're the prime minister of this government. Whether something happened or not, you definitely need to know. There are people who have to recommend that certain media behave completely contrary to the Information Act. It is, however, something that you have and a law that we have not voted on, but is voted by members of the ruling majority. One more thing I could inform the Prime Minister, who doesn't know a lot of things, is that November 16th was an international day of tolerance. The Ministry of Minority Rights then made a wonderful poster, where Redkappa runs the wolf over some imaginary line on the globe and writes – we can do it together. We are wondering – was it a test of the authorities' tolerance, because it is obvious that there is a serious problem in this ministry and in the whole government about what is actually being tolerated? On October 10th, it was tolerated to show the middle finger to the nuns in front of the Vanessa Church. What was not tolerated was the presence of liturgy, so Mladen Obradovic, with his wife, Jelen, who was arrested in the fifth month of pregnancy at 8.30 a.m., was prevented as a believer from attending liturgy. It was tolerated to wear a poster and that even Minister Ciplic went past the posters- the death of the state, but was not tolerated by the defence of the state. It was tolerated to say, from participants of this private party, that Belgrade was deprived of innocence, and no gathering of believers was tolerated around a place where dozens and two priests died in that allied bombing in 1944, outside the Vanessa Church in Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47511	Two minutes, I'd like to thank the MP. National MP Zoran Ostojić has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47512	Thank you, Vice-President, the prime minister is gone, but I will repeat to you what Mr Jovanovic said in the report after we are full of European integration -- the assembly continues to hold regular sessions that are not attended by members of the government. However, these sessions are still formal, not contentual. Among other things, it would be nice if you were half government, but you're only a quarter or less. On the other hand, tomorrow, the paper will only come up with what you said, not what we asked, and sometimes the question is important. Turns out you gave us some kind of opening letter. There are no ministers I could ask questions to. There's no Minister of Energy. I asked in that regular time around the price of gas -- why we pay the most expensive gas and I get the answer that the price of gas we pay in Russia is a confidential thing. I asked the Minister of Education – how can I, in regular terms, talk about written answers, students who collect 48 points cannot go to the budget, and even that of 60, he corresponds to the phrases that it is all according to the law. Simply, I should now ask Mr. Markovic where the decision of SO Dimitrovgrad, which they are asking to return to them the eternal name of that Municipality of Caribrod, more Byzantine times, instead of Dimitrovgrad, but it is not answered from their heads, it is a question for the regular one. That's why I'm still gonna use this, Mr. Djelic. He asks you, Mr Samardzic - why don't you fence yourself with NATO's praises, because it bothers him. You don't say you don't mind or suit yourself, but in principle, I expected you to say that. What's NATO, Mr. Djelic? NATO is an organisation in which all the countries around will enter very quickly. It's collective security. Collective security is cheaper than quasi neutrality. Since NATO was founded, there has been no sign of NATO members' territory. You tell Mr. Samardzic you're an economist. Before that, you answer to whom you shared the keys avoiding a clear answer to that question. You say you are an economist, so tell the citizens of Serbia, take this opportunity, that in Romania the first year foreign investments jumped by 140%, in Bulgaria 110%. Please state how much this is a NATO membership to contribute to security of foreign capital inflow. You're trying to avoid it. You're talking about some kind of dowry. First you had fun in cohabitation, then you were in the government, that would be marriage. The marriage fell apart, and that child, that military neutrality, the child you adopted... You quote Biden, half a sentence, U.S. Vice President, you don't say the other half of the sentence. He said -- it's not a term point, but that way you'll be faster in the EU. That's what he said.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47513	Three minutes. Do any of the ministers want to respond? Yeah. ) Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47514	Mr Ostojic, since I was present, I can tell you exactly what was said and said exactly, that the United States would like Serbia to become a NATO member, but that as far as they are concerned, it is not a prerequisite for Serbia to join the EU. When we talk about costs, what we need to see is that if NATO in that domain where we cooperate with its praises, that's a positive one, but we know what the field of our co-operation is. It's a field of co-operation within the Partnership for Peace programme. If we look at the security situation in Europe, we need to closely monitor the evolution that exists in relations between some countries and some alliances. Let us also look at some new tones that appeared in Portugal at the summit. We see some joint projects, some of the conditions that the Russian Federation sets for it to participate in certain new programmes, and thus the government of the RS itself, and our entire country will closely monitor this evolution. In this House, the president of the Russian Federation spoke of an initiative that he doesn't want to have just the Russian Federation, he doesn't want to propose to the whole of Europe to build a new architecture for the security of our continent. These are all the evolutions that are worthy of attention and that our country and our government will closely monitor. Until further notice, we have our doctrine that I was talking about earlier.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47515	The word has been sent to Zoran Ostojić. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47516	I may be a little dumb, but I really don't understand what you're saying. First, you say now -- we wait for Russia to be determined towards NATO, and then we will determine ourselves. You said something like that. I really don't understand. I guess it's better to be prosperous, so we can be in NATO, and together from NATO, we can help Russia have better relations. On the other hand, Mr. Djelic, it's good that you don't speak the arguments that NATO opponents are saying - they bombed us. The Serbs also bombed in Bosnia, so they are for NATO. They bombed Montenegro, so they're for NATO. What do you think, because they love NATO? No, because they know it's their interest. So I don't understand that answer. You're talking about Lisbon. Just because it's security and security of foreign investment, let's talk as economists, why do you avoid giving figures – how much beneficial NATO membership works on foreign investments? We are talking about former communist countries entering the EU that way. Don't keep mentioning any historic neutral countries. Austria is historically neutral because of the State Treaty after World War II. Why don't you say that NATO is wider than the EU for the United States, Canada and Turkey? Release that half-story in a Kosovo resolution on military neutrality as a child of that marriage that caused Serbia to suffer. I don't understand why that... Say it openly - we won't make that decision yet. They're going to attack us. If you want to join the EU, if you want foreign investment, if you want to develop a country, why did what happened when you had a joint government to tow today? Is there anyone in the government who won't let you get rid of that ballast? Why are you talking about a referendum, Mr. Djelic? Was the referendum when we inserted the half-word into the Kosovo resolution or did the national representatives vote on it? As they voted, so can something else. I guess that's the way it is. Of the 29 NATO countries, only 3 had a referendum. What are you not talking about?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47517	Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47518	Mr Ostojić, there is one thing we will agree on, which is that our policy must be guided exclusively around our national interests, not foreign interests, and therefore there is no objection that we should join NATO because Romania has entered NATO, because a large number of countries in the eastern bloc were members of the eastern bloc, and they were members and members of one other military alliance, and they have moved from one alliance to another. Serbia's history is different. Yugoslavia's history is different. That is why our approach to NATO and such integrations will also be specific in the interests of our country. Only those who are either malicious or under-informed can deny the fact that it is of great importance for Serbia to see what the evolution of the relationship between NATO and the Russian Federation will be like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47519	Ambassador Zoran Ostojić. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47520	Here we have heard, gentlemen, that, say Macedonia, Montenegro and all those who have entered NATO seem to be leading a policy not out of their national interests but in other people's interests, only we are running our own national policy. That reminds me of that sentence from the last presidential campaign when this newly-roasted European who took off the badge said that the expensive EU carpet is less valuable if he has one hole. The hole should be Serbia and that is Serbia's interest. No, that hole is the interest of some others. It's completely the opposite of what you're saying. It's our interest to be in NATO. If we wait for Russia, Russia will agree and then what? She'll tell us – now you can join NATO. Is that the lead of national interests? Everyone's gonna get back together, and we're gonna stay that hole. Mr. Djelic, don't talk about Romania. All I talked about was money, foreign investment, that's what I was talking about. After the first year of NATO membership, 140% and you know it well, but you are avoiding it, and you say you are for the EU. If so, it will be a measure of honesty for the EU not in the future, but very soon. I know you may have a policy, but your party's MPs are initiating a parliamentary delegation to this parliament's NATO headquarters, so they're calling us the other day. You have to be honest, consistent in this European policy, otherwise it's just a form. That's what the report resents that we're not dealing with essentials, as if it's homework here, so we have to do three sides, and what the three sides say doesn't matter. We of the LDP insist not to compromise the European idea in this way. If we're honest Europeans, then we need that half-word that you're together in some other time, you know best why, put in and put a burden on us and make this Parliament a clear decision, which everyone around us has made. You don't have some foreign policy running around us, but yours and we have to lead our own, otherwise we'll be run over by time, and we'll still be some kind of hole that's obviously wanted by someone. But it's not the interest of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47521	The word is by MP Nenad Popovic. After him, MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47522	The Honorable Presidency, respected gentlemen from the government of the Republic of Serbia, is sorry that Prime Minister Cvetkovic has left. Is he gone completely? He'll be back. If the prime minister returns, I would like him to answer my question, if not him, then Resolute Minister Matic. I'll quote a few sentences, since my question is about Telecom, from the government of the Republic of Serbia's strategy. The strategy is called – A strategy for the technological and scientific development of the Republic of Serbia from 2010 to 2015. You recently adopted her. I quote - the state must boost domestic technology by giving home-based programs of various levels of government, as well as public enterprises a chance at home. It goes on to say -- the area of information and communication technologies is an important branch of the economy and science in Serbia. I quote further – in the area of software production and in part hardware, there are companies dealing with plasma knowledge and doing well in the market, even in the region. Then he says -- "Telecom Serbia", EPS, "Electro Networks of Serbia", which means that the area mostly rests on public enterprises and state institutions. Please pay particular attention – there is great potential in the software area, there are recorded results and should be invested in the development of this area. The question – why is the government on the one hand talking about the importance of the development of telecommunications areas, and on the other hand, the key economic operator wants to sell? I'm going to get a little bit attached to what Prime Minister Cvetkovic was saying. I'd like to hear back from him. He said public enterprises are the prey of political parties and the state must come out of them. I would like to inform the government that this "know how" should then be given to the EU. I remind you that in telecommunications, telecoms in the following countries are owned by the majority state – Belgium, Switzerland, Italy, Finland, Norway, Sweden, even in Slovenia, directly or indirectly through investment companies that are in majority state ownership. Directly or indirectly, I will repeat, through investment companies that are mostly state-owned, especially in Slovenia. Furthermore, the prime minister says - bad leadership. Then change that leadership.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47523	Three minutes. Do any of the government's representatives want to respond? Yeah. ) Minister Jasna Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47524	I really don't want to explain now what the Prime Minister said, but to come from your last finding, he certainly didn't say bad leadership. He said – a leadership that is hampered by different legal constraints. This, above all, implies the obligation to supply new equipment, other services by the public procurement system, with respect to the Public Procurement Act, which slows the whole process and makes it more expensive and inefficient. It is only one of the obstacles that prevents state-owned enterprises from being as efficient as private-owned enterprises. Another reason I would mention, which the prime minister did not mention, is the fact that eventually led to the concentration of telecommunications industry worldwide. This means that large operators with hundreds of millions of users are getting much more favourable goods and services than small operators can do. The fact that you mentioned, that several countries in Europe, that we are not now in the discussion whether these six countries you mentioned have majority state property in their telecommunications operators, or they are relatively small operators, except for Norwegians, which is owned by their investment fund, which is used to invest huge incomes that Norway generates from an oil business, which we unfortunately do not have. Norway's Telenor has 200 million users around the world. It's very difficult for our operator, who doesn't even have 10 million users, to compete with an operator that's 20 times bigger. The fact is that in the telecommunications industry, there is now a new investment cycle due to the nature of the industry and the technological leap that took place. It will be extremely difficult for small operators to keep up with operators that are much larger. That is why I would repeat, what the prime minister said, now is an optimal time to find a good strategic investor who will enable high rates and investment in our Telecom and thus allow our economy to become more competitive, because for Serbia as a small and open economy it is necessary to have extremely efficient and quality telecommunications, so that our businesses can achieve an increase in exports.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47525	Ambassador Nenad Popovic, three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47526	Madam Minister, unfortunately, you haven't answered the question I asked, that you've brought a telecommunications strategy that's completely the opposite of what you're doing, but well, that's another question. Let me answer you about the size of the company. The size of companies today, after the economic crisis, is no advantage, especially in software business. I have to say, the biggest growth in America on the market has software companies. Behind you is the Deputy Prime Minister who, I'm sure, knows the state of the world's stock exchanges fantastically. The biggest growth has small software companies. The largest, especially those related to telecommunications and automation in energy, unprecedented growth. This is what you're holding back the domestic economy. I want to tell you that Telecom, except that it doesn't need to be sold because it's an infrastructure resource, like a large company, that's what I'm telling you in economic theory, you as a construction engineer should know, big businesses tie it to one job. That's what the minister of the automotive industry, telecommunications, machine construction said. In one place in a large company comes 10 to 20 jobs in small and medium-sized enterprises. This is how you end jobs, by selling small and medium-sized enterprises. Why? Because, as Mr Djelic will also tell you, he knows it very well, without any irony I know he knows, when large companies produce in China, India, Pakistan, Serbia, large world companies, science and scientific research always remain in the country of origin. Telenor can have 50 companies in the world, I think there's even one in the Congo, but believe me, all the RND now holds all the scientific and research work in the country of origin, and that's good. "Telenor" is state-owned. Let me tell you something else, you're saying he can't stand the competition. Just to inform the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and you, Telecom is already 20% owned by a private company in Greece's Ote, owned by Deutsche Telekom. Do you really underestimate these people from Deutsche Telekom or the Greek Otté sitting on the board, sitting in management? Do you, as Minister of Telecommunications, underestimate our intelligence? You underestimate our intelligence, and in your strategy, you say something completely different. I'm sure Telecom can compete, which he's proven in recent years, to all regional players, 100%. This has been proven and we have extremely good experts in telecommunications, experts from the university. Again, he employs a huge number of small and medium-sized enterprises, and that's our scientific and research base for the future. I would like to add just one more thing – if you are leaving Telekom, as the prime minister said, when the state is unable to implement competition policy with others. (President: three minutes. ) This government invests in Fiat, this government invests in Bor, this government invests in other companies. We can slow down, but the state has to stay in Telekom.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47527	Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47528	Fellow Popovic, as far as software is concerned, some of our most successful software companies in Serbia are working for foreign clients. And today, you mentioned that case, we have three of our software companies working today with a lot of success in what's called a smart power transmission network and something that I'm confident will be after that foreign experience of invaluable importance and value to our country because we too have to improve the way that it distributes and manages our electricity. When we talk about Telekom, it is certain that those with quality products do not need in any way to fear a strategic partner. On the contrary, the arrival of a strategic partner and the way in which their knowledge will be able to be placed not only in the frameworks of Telekom Srbija, but within the framework of this future strategic partner, it seems to me that only those who may have sold at a price that was not marketable, certain knowledge that was not so modern. It is not a mistake for Telekom Srbija, but rather a problem that we will deal with at the moment when the real market check comes, about whether that knowledge that has been sold is really at the level or not. I'm just saying that when we, I think we're here and how we agreed, we went to the sale of a majority package of NIS, neither you nor we were afraid that any knowledge that our experts are placing with NIS would be compromised by Gazprom, nor that those of our gas specialists could be threatened by the coming world giant Gazprom. On the contrary, what we're saying, I'm telling you from direct contact with this firm, we have the opportunity to better place our knowledge wherever Gazprom and Gazprom function and work, and that's how we're going to further use and evaluate Serbian intelligence and what's going to be the case, I think we agree on that, both in oil and in gas with the Russian partner, so there will be communication with future strategic partner Telekom Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47529	Ambassador Nenad Popovic, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47530	Mr. Djelic, there's only one small difference between NIS and some telecommunications company. The telecommunications companies in Europe have 30, 40, 50, maybe some new ones, maybe a few others, but I want to say, Gazprom oil, or Russia, is the only oil producer in Europe except Norway. Unfortunately, we can't transport oil from Norway. What you haven't answered either, Mr. Djelic, I repeat the question to you for the third time, please answer me in writing, that is, you have brought a declaration, or strategy of scientific and technological development, where you put Telekom on the pedestal, and now you're selling it. There's no reason why we can't talk about you not knowing what to do with the money. We heard all kinds of information. They say we must build roads first. We don't have to build roads by selling Telekom. Roads can be built with concessions. We heard - we'll invest in infrastructure. And infrastructure can be built with concessions. I want to say that against this move with the sale of Telekom, as you will see, all the professional public are citizens against him and I'm sure that time will show, if that happens, that it will be a very harmful move. I'm sure there's plenty of time to think about it and I want to point out that we, as the DSS, are categorically against the sale of Telekom. We believe Telekom is an extremely important infrastructure resource, because telecommunications is also as important as road infrastructure, rail, water, etc. We categorically oppose the sale of Telekom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47531	The word has been given by MP Dragan Stevanovic, and then by MP Vesna Marjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47532	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Cvetkovic, my question has been addressed to you. It refers to an event announced on Saturday, November 27th. My question is whether the government will do anything to prevent an announced gathering in the municipality of Bosilegrad on November 27th, about 91 years since the signing of the so-called so-called "Busilegrad". The Noj Agreement, for which political parties coming from Bulgaria with their activists on eight buses from Sofia and three buses, reportedly from Custendil, are preparing a visit and a protest against the alleged abduction and occupation of Western Bulgarian provinces by the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, for a year I moved into this congregation and opened this issue and every appropriate state reaction to these events was lagging behind. That's how it is, they say the pictures I brought to the congregation at this time. A few days ago, I showed one of your ministers some pictures, some pictures I gave, with his, I'm not going to say a promise, but a commitment to face it in the government, to look at and to question what's going on there. The pictures were about some of the people who organized that rally. These are members of the Bosilegrad Cultural and Information Centre, a citizens' association that should deal with education and culture issues of the Bulgarian national minority. They do everything else, just not a team. On the houses of these activists are pictures of the assassins of King Alexander and it would not be dangerous if the policy led by five or ten people in the city of Bosilegrad had not been supported by official state authorities by the president of the Bosilegrad municipality. I showed pictures of the president of the municipality under Bulgaria's banner rallying in the municipality of Bosilegrad. That wasn't enough for the government of the Republic of Serbia either, so this time I tried to convince you a little stronger with arguments. This, Mr. Prime Minister, is a picture from the rally of the same party that announced its arrival Saturday from a year ago, 90 years from the Noj Agreement, and is on it a transparent "90 years from Serbian slavery, assimilation, murder, terror and law". Under the transparency, the president of Serbia's municipality, who receives salary from the Republika Srpska budget, spoke. It is funded by the taxpayers of the Republic of Serbia. My question in this first round is – are you familiar with this? Did the competent state authorities initiate any procedure or action related to the repression of the activities of these people in the Bosilegrad municipality and all those who give them support from the Republic of Bulgaria? I'll tell you who these people are.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47533	Do any of the government's representatives want to give an answer? Republika Srpska Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47534	I'm going to give a concrete answer to the question of whether or not I know it. The answer is no, now I'm familiar with it. When asked what the government will do about it, we will, be convinced, take whatever is in line with the rules governing the issues of gathering, the right to demonstrations, etc., so if any of the legal regulations governing this area are violated, the Government will have appropriate reactions.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47535	National MP Dragan Stevanović, three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47536	Mr. Cvetkovic, the answers you've announced I've already received. Whether there will be a collapse of public order and peace, the SRS and me as an SRS MP coming from that area is absolutely not interested. I have no doubt that the state has mechanisms to protect public order and peace. I'm talking about the collapse of the constitutional order, or sovereignty and integrity of this country. The people gathered at KIC and who are organizers together were Mr. Cvetkovic in his newsletter, which is called, drawing Serbia in the image of a pig who eats Bulgaria. These people promote the idea that the Republic of Serbia has no limits where there are. These people, in the worst possible way, deceive the public and people living in Bosilegrad and in the territory of the Pcinj County. Who are the people coming to us, Mr. Markovic? This is a question for you, too. This is an official party site that will organize eight buses. That's an announcement. Volen Siderov is the president. Mr. Siderov announces his arrival: The Ataka Party made a gift for the Bulgarians in Bosilegad, the western provinces, not the Republic of Serbia. The text goes on to say -- the prime minister in Bosilegrad, the western provinces, the president of Ataka Volen Siderov's party and the MP, etc. Other guests of the 27th in Bosilegrad should be members of the VMRO party from Bulgaria, they are slightly smaller than these, but they are no less toxic and decrutic. This may be a little more interesting for you government gentlemen, since they are announcing a meeting with Bulgaria's foreign minister, who will officially be asked to ask the question of Serbia's entry into that unfortunate EU of yours because of the rights of Bulgarians who are at risk in the Republic of Serbia. As much as I despise the policy you represent and lead, however, I say responsibly that in the territory of the municipality of Bosilegrad, Dimitrovgrad, Surdulica, Babusnica there is no citizen of Bulgarian nationality who is at risk of any rights. But it's a shame for this country to open one question in front of the SRS for a year that you don't find it appropriate to reason with five or ten people, to take all the measures you can under the law to shut down one problem that doesn't exist. As you look indolently at all of this up there, it's spreading, it's getting worse, the people are upset. I'm not going to read the letters I received from the previous presentation at the address here in the Assembly of citizens who gave me support because of their position and position in relation to these few people, and I expect from you a reaction, both you and your state bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47537	Do any of the government's representatives want to answer an additional question? No, I don't. I thank you. In that case, the word has a folk MP Vesna Marjanovic, followed by MP Milan Lapcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47538	Dear Prime Minister, I would actually have a question for the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Djelic. In one of the previous answers, you mentioned the event today from Pogorec, it is about how familiar I am about the building and moving of 20 Roma families into homes, which have been built thanks to the European Commission funds and the support of the town of Pogorec, and I think it is important to note that one of the key conditions is precisely in obtaining Serbia's EU bid for human rights in Serbia, and in particular the issue of Roma inclusion. You, Mr. Vice President, recently stayed in Strasbourg, led a delegation and announced that Serbia had run for two 36m-euro European funds projects there. I think it would be important to hear about the plans of the Serbian government, which we will take steps to improve the human rights situation, to improve Roma integration, inclusion and to improve these parts, i.e. these groups, that citizens who are threatened and belong to minority groups, to improve their lives.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47539	One moment, Mr. Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47540	There are times when in public life you see the meaning of what you do. A moment ago, it was said that European integration is sometimes not good enough to communicate, that there is no clear effect on citizens' lives. This morning there was a little Anita with us, she's seven years old, she's a Roma national, and when I asked her what her grades were, she told me she could have better grades that she had fours and a two. I asked, well, why don't you have better grades when I think you can have, and she told me – because I don't have electricity, because now the days are shorter, so when there's no more days, I have nowhere else to study. That's why I'm happy to have my room that I share with my sister. At the end of this ceremony, when all of us officials spoke, then the father, the head of one family, came out of those 20 families who got a roof over their heads today, through a joint action by the EU, the town of Fireman and the support of the RS government and he barely kept his tears, because he explained that this moment was important to him, because two weeks ago his child was attacked by rats. We're talking about very difficult things here and it shows that the situation for Roma families, for that minority, is very difficult. It is difficult today in Serbia, and some are particularly difficult. I would like to say a few words to you, not only as vice president in charge of European integration, but also as president of the National Council for Roma Inclusion. The inclusion of Roma is a question of ethics, heart and reality of the brain. Ethics from the heart, because members of the Roma minority live ten to fifteen years shorter than the majority people, because two thirds of them live in unhygienic conditions, because very few of them come to a degree. There has been progress in recent years, especially in the domain of education, and I particularly welcome it, the efforts of the Ministry of Education, local self-government, and they all provided free textbooks and therefore I was happy in this misery and hard words to hear that all the children in Pogorevec today, when we met them, went to school and that none of them went to school. When we asked their parents one thing, they said, Mr. Djelic, keep giving us textbooks. They didn't ask for money, they asked for textbooks and conditions for their children to learn. It's something that's right thinking and something our country has to support. The issue of Roma inclusion is both brain and reality. If we see the problems Romania had with France, because illegal emigrations occurred, which occurred, because no country wants to engage certain minorities, including Roma, for the account and for the countries from which these minorities come. That is why the issue of Roma inclusion and the priority that our country is giving is very important, and also because of real policy, so that it does not happen that members of the Roma minority are branded because a number of them, because they do not see the perspective in our country, decide to go or seek asylum or go the path of illegal emigration. All in all, what you've noticed well, and that's the proposal of the Republic of Serbia to the so-called It provides a multi-user instrument with 30m euros, partly for education, for employment and for the effort we put into this domain, is something that has already been noticed, and that is why we will continue to work not through rhetoric, but through concrete actions with our scarce but essential national, rural, local resources and thus seek support from the EU as well. Tomorrow, Hungary's Prime Minister, Mr Orban, will be in Belgrade and as announced, Hungary will have among the priorities of a European strategy for Roma inclusion during the first half of next year's EU presidency. The Republic of Serbia will make a full contribution, because it is a matter of ethics, heart, brain and reality. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47541	The right to comment or ask an additional question, no. Mr Milan Lapčević has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47542	Dear Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Ministers, I will ask the first question to Serbian Prime Minister Cvetkovic, and I will refer first to the questions I asked last year in May, so May 28th was a session, related to the pipeline and the South Stream pipeline route to pass through Serbia. I then asked the question, because at that time there was an actual topic where the pipeline, South Stream, would enter Serbia and what part, whether in Zaječar or as previously foreseen by the route of corridor ten, at Dimitrovgrad, and then on Piroth, Nis towards Paracino, the northern arm and south towards Skopje and Greece. You then answered me that the course is purely commercial and it will be defined through a feasibility study, and then, thinking about the government or anyone else who decides then, where that pipeline for internal affairs passes, and yet starting from commercial interest to the highest concentration of consumers, we will release our arms that will go in that direction and that the pipeline will certainly travel through Serbia will determine the physibilities of the study and will determine the most favourable variant for our country and our citizens. "Politics" announced the day before yesterday that the route, calling for interviews and statements by Gazprom Director-General Aleksandr Medvedev, the South Stream Master's gas pipeline, will enter Serbia at Zaječar. The proposal was agreed by both Serbia and Bulgaria, and was confirmed yesterday by Aleksandar Medvedev, CEO of Gazprom Export, in a meeting with reporters. My question logically adds to what I read, on which basis and who in Serbia's name gave consent to the pipeline's route to Zaječar. Who was the negotiator on behalf of the government? On the basis of which documents, on the basis of which the feasibility studies were selected, this most favourable variant for Serbia was chosen to move the pipeline into Zaječar and to go on already intended track towards Paracino, etc. To be clear, I have nothing against our people living in Zajecar and that part of Serbia, it will probably be a great benefit to them, but I am interested in it, on the basis of which the document Serbia has decided on this course, because it was a promise and it is probably normal for each country to determine the route where it is most favourable and where it will cost it least on one side. On the other hand, it will have the largest benefit of its inhabitants. I'm interested when that feasibility study was done, who was doing it, how much it cost, when it was presented, etc. These are the only essential elements that can determine where the pipeline will enter. (President: three minutes. ) Just one more sentence, I've never heard of gas pipelines being placed outside the corridor before. I guess that's why the corridors are called, that all the infrastructure goes through the corridors. What's the logic of going outside the corridor? Please, I'd like to hear those arguments from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47543	We'll hear it now. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47544	Dear People's MP, the logic of things is that the course is determined on the basis of the physibilities of the study and that was the meaning of that answer I gave you. Of course, the physibilities of the study are not for each country individually, but for the project as such. She's working for the South Stream project, not now to go through one country, through the other, through the third. And in that context, something that is more favourable for a country can be less favourable for the project itself. I'm speaking theoretically, and I'm not speculating on a specific case, because I haven't personally seen that study, whether it's over or whether it's been handed over to us, and I don't even know if we agreed, at least officially in the government it wasn't. I'm going to transfer the question to the resolution minister, who probably has more information about it than I do. In any case, the course is certainly determined on the basis of the physibilities of the study and it is certain that the study was done for the project and it is certain that the study was looking for the most favourable solution. It does not mean the most favourable solution for Bulgaria, most favourable for Serbia, means the most favourable solution for the project as a whole. What did she give? I know it was Zaječar's options, and it was Dimitrovgrad. What the physicality of the study gave, I really don't know. Thank you for asking the question. I'll pass it on to the Minister of Resort.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47545	Thank you, Mr. Cvetkovic. The word is Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47546	Thank you, Mr. Cvetkovic. I didn't honestly expect to get more information from you than I heard. That unfortunately confirms the fact that you have been told many times in this House, that you are more of a letterary Prime Minister than you should really be, since your name tells you. For most of the things asked by the MPs today, in this House, you had the answer not to know and not to know, but to convey. We didn't call the mailman here to transmit information, but the prime minister to get answers from him, at least for the main questions. I didn't ask some things that are less important. I think this is a very important and concrete thing. If someone on behalf of Serbia is to agree that this route of the pipeline passes and enters the Zajecar and goes forward as planned, then I guess the prime minister and the government should be informed or agree or delegate a man or make a decision in the government, not that someone without anyone else's knowledge that this consent and simply without any interest of Serbia is done through our country. I'm afraid there's some background here. I'm not going to put that in touch with you and the fact that you're from Zajechor, but it just seems to me that this kind of behavior where you don't usually know the answers to questions and you're passing on as a mailman is extremely strange and simply unacceptable. I will use the remaining time to ask Mr Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister, who was visiting the towns and municipalities of southeastern Serbia about a month ago. Among other things, he also visited Aleksinac and Pirot, Babisnica, White Palanca, etc., and Nis too.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47547	Three minutes. Here you go, Mr. Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47548	Well, you know I'm a Pyrocan father, so I go to Pirot gladly and often. I'm very happy here to say that the last visit was very barberish because we agreed on an export-investment arrangement for that Serbian part of the Tiger that has produced many successes over the past few years of rubber shoes, technical tires and other elements, because the hardworking Pyrocans with the money they got from selling a piece of the tire factory to a strategic partner from France did not spend it, but they invested it in that factory, i.e. in two factories, where they recognized very well that it was very important to invest in providing for themselves and their children and the future of the pyrota something to do. It's a great honor, because they've succeeded in the past two years not only to increase their exports by 90% every year on the most demanding markets, but they've also bought two world-famous brands, one Danish and one English, so today, I can tell you, when I'm in the West, I jump into these specialized shops and I see Hunter brand, and I know it's made in Pirot. Well done, and lived Pirot, and lived Tiger. About this, you mentioned that I went to Babusnica. We had, unfortunately, as often happens, little time, and when we did this important job of that 12m-euro arrangement, that they could win new markets in the future, develop distribution in those countries, they managed to sign a big deal this summer with the biggest chain of sales of the goods, "Dekatlon", and already 180 thousand couples agreed. At the same time, we agreed that this money would be used for what's important at the meeting point between industry and environmental science, the possibility of using their sales network, picking up worn-out tyres, and making a circle of already existing factories of one recycling plant. We'll all win. First, because it will no longer pink our land, especially our rivers, and on the other hand, so "Tiger" will provide much cheaper input for their production. We received a call, as we headed south of Serbia, to visit Babusnica. Unfortunately, no one from the government of the Republic of Serbia has visited Babusnica for a long time, and there is a very difficult place to live. In Babusnica we talked about many projects, especially the possibility that two factories that no longer work, and they had a good workforce, could be one base for future strategic partnerships. We've already talked in Babusnica about the possibility that this investment that will come to the Tiger, because the Tiger, the part that deals with the other side of the tires, has one outpost in Babusnica, and that's very important. We've already started to discuss that investment in the Tiger in Pirot being plus for Babusnica. There's no other reason why I haven't met the leadership of the town of Pirot. I am, not the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister of all citizens and not just those who vote for one or another political option. It's our legal obligation. It's our moral obligation. We go to all the cities, all the villages in the same way. We give support to all our citizens, regardless of what their political definitions are. What you quoted was an answer to another unrelated question about the political situation in the Pyrot itself. Like any pro-European citizen who is pro-Europeanly oriented in our country, I just asked the question – why did someone tear down the pro-European coalition at the place, to build, and says that Pirot in Europe, a coalition with the Radical Party, whose policy, which I respect, is your policy, not to join the EU. There's one illogicality there, and I think it'll be better for everyone if they want to lead Pirot to Europe, to make a pro-European coalition. That's all. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47549	Thank you, Mr. Djelic. Commentary, Mr. Lapcevic, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47550	Mr. Djelic, I really don't know what kind of energy potion you're on. I'm asking you why you haven't met with representatives of the municipality of Piroth and the municipality of Aleksinac, and you answer that you're lucky that the Pyrocans are valuable people and that they're going to collect the waste tire and make me don't know what else. It's a great thing. That's very nice and it's not at all controversial. From what you have responded in the end that you respect all the coalitions and all the citizens, that you are the Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or vice-president of the Government and all the citizens is absolutely untrue. Since you said it publicly in the camera, and we watched it and posted it on YouTube, you don't want to meet with management because in that municipal government it's not DS. It's absolutely right. Wonderful. So we're making government and prime ministers and vice-presidents of the government who are party personalities, and they're not the same personalities that should be treated, so you're going to determine who's going to be in power and in which municipality. What kind of way is that? What kind of discrimination is that? It's a simple debauchery. Instead of that nickname you have, Mickey Mouse, they better call you Pinocchio.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47551	I'd like to warn you of politeness in conduct. A comment can be understood one way or another, but insults are always just a one-way street. It is not right to do this ever and nowhere, let alone in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Please make your comments, given the business inability to respond to them, in line with the decent dictionary. The word has a folk MP, Mr. Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47552	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the government, this issue is from the field of education. Of course, both the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister are present, so they can either respond or point to Minister of Education Dr. Zarko Obradovic. On 2 September 2010, Predrag Lukić of Aleksinac, a second year student of academic master studies at the Faculty of Civil Engineering and Architecture in Nis, informed that he was the best student of the year and that on 4 November 2010, i.e. On the day of the Nis Faculty of Civil Engineering, he comes to the award ceremony. To help Predrag Lukic, on that day, accidentally hear from his colleagues that he is not the one who should receive the award as a student of the year, but someone else. He determined that someone else from the previous year had passed only five exams. Em did not give all the exams from the year, the average of the five exams is lower than the average score of all the exams passed by Predrag Lukic at the university. Of course, he asked for an explanation from the dean of Professor Dragan Arangelovic and, with certain inconveniences, he was expelled from the cabinet. He filed a complaint with the University of Nis on November 8th and on November 9th. My source of information on this is, of course, the student statement that this is about. Gentlemen of the government, what does this young man think? Is his case part of general discrimination or violation of human and civil rights to him or is it because we MPs of the SRS Group do not believe, since he is a member of Roma nationality, that reason he is not declared a student of the year? Mr. Prime Minister, the saddest thing is that young people in Serbia today have no perspective. Unless present Deputy Prime Minister Mr Bozidar Djelic explains how selling his aunt's couch makes 10.7m euros or buying a hotel in Sokobanja. Or possibly, he's not here, he was just there, because he boasts about it, he's a source of information, that he has a great fortune in Serbia, Tomislav Nikolic. The rule of law does not function, especially after the politicisation of the judiciary, in the functioning of the state system institutions and in the procedures of the individual. By asking this question and by providing an answer, I am giving at least a hint of hope to this wonderful young man, and perhaps to others, that something can be fair and fair in this country, and this is certainly not. That is why I ask the Serbian government, especially Minister of Education Zarko Obradovic, to examine this whole case, check the allegations, determine the facts and answer the asked parliamentary question.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47553	Mr. Djelic will answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47554	Your Honor, I will ignore what you have spoken of on my behalf, as far as this case is concerned, please submit all documents to my cabinet and as chairman of the National Council for Roma Inclusion, we will examine the case until the end. If any form of discrimination arises, it will be punished by law, including the shift of people who have done so, because all citizens of our country must have the opportunity to rise from their own condition at a given time, by showing talent and effort. If this is eliminated, it is not only a problem for the Roma minority, it is a problem for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47555	Mr. Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47556	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, if I ignore where you get this kind of money, and Mr. Chairman, I agree with your reaction, and I say that we ignore what I mentioned on the parliamentary issue, if we focus only on the essence and core of this parliamentary question, you have the elements here, you have the possibility through the Ministry of Education's service, the Department of Education in Nis, so please, as a People's MP, to check and determine the facts. Besides, it means that even if I can get you some paperwork, it doesn't exist. There's only a complaint from this student, Predrag Lukic, and nothing else I own. So you, through the Ministry of Education, check these allegations, determine the facts, if all is well, it is good, if it is wrong, if there is abuse, if there is an irregularity, determine this factual state, and please take measures towards the responsible and submit an answer to me as a People's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47557	Mr. Djelic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47558	Just to confirm that we're going to do so and to mention because it's a big question at this point, over the past few years some two hundred Roma students have had access to the budget and it was something that had a huge success and a great number of fates were so improved. I have to say at this point, for the time being, the funds for it are not provided for next year, but with my colleague, Zarko Obradovic, we will work to ensure that it is provided, as was the case in previous years, because this has proved to be one of the best ways to improve the situation within our Roma minority.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47559	The word has an MP, Vlatko Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47560	Mr. Prime Minister, my question concerns the fundamental elements of the economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I would ask you to elaborate and briefly explain the basic economic policy vectors of the next period of the government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the current parameters concerning macroeconomic and macro-financial policies, in front of this parliament, and for the sake of the public of Serbia. This is what we have already seen in the budget rebalancing and we have a large part of this data, but in part of the public I think there is an artificial induction of a perception and a notion that we are at the edge of bankruptcy, in front of economic cataclysm and rather catastrophic scenarios go from both part of the media, both printed and electronic. Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you to present to the public the basic elements of economic policy and the current parameters of the macroeconomic and macroeconomic situation to Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47561	The word is Prime Minister Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47562	Dear People's MPs, I will try briefly to look back at the present moment and what awaits us in the future. We are now in a period where, as I like to say, we are statistically out of the crisis, and that means we are achieving positive GDP growth rates, but they are still below the level we need for long-term sustainable development. Not only that, they are below the level that allows citizens to feel more serious about improving living standards. I have to say that they're positive, we don't have a GDP drop anymore, and in this respect we're classifying ourselves, when we're looking at the environment, in countries that show better performance, let's say, we're better than other countries. I've got numbers all over the country here, but I don't want to bother you. Anyway, I want to say that from our environment there are several countries that are practically still in recession, still recording negative growth rates, i.e. GDP decline. Although these rates seem rather encouraging, for this year we planned to have a 1.5% growth. For our part, we will achieve this plan, perhaps even slightly more favourable results. It's expected between 1.5% and 2%. For the following year, we planned 3%, and then in the next period further growth every year, until we stabilise to about 6%, on the 10-year average is about 5.8%, which is some sustainable and relatively high growth rate, which will allow people to feel more serious improvements in their standard of living. In addition to these good ones, so to speak, digits and projections, we have certain things that pose risks to business, and these risks are primarily related to our relations, in general the structure of our economy, the structure of our budget and that is, with the foreign market. In this context, the government of the Republic of Serbia is in the final phase of a single project, which is due to give a picture of economic policy over the next 10 years, from 2011 to 2020. This project is inspired by the resignations that we had the opportunity to see in a serious study done by a large group of our most important economists, inspired by these views by their views, the government will make its strategy. I expect that, in the next ten days, it may be over and then let the public debate go first within the government, and then maybe beyond, and when we finally adopt that strategy, it will apply in the next ten-year period. The strategy is essentially based on a change in the concept of development, unlike the development which has so far been highly based on the development of domestic demand, which was large and consequently, has led to high GDP growth rates, but parallel to that of single imports on one side, of course, growth was mostly in the domains of so-called ‘GDP’. Inexchangeable goods. Those were favors. So, because of that rebalancing, we had a high negative balance of payments with some rates that threaten to threaten macroeconomic stability. Our possible development will be significantly subordinated to the growth of that part of the economy which is possible for products to exchange products and thus, through one export orientation, use the foreign market. The second thing that is important for this growth model is that we plan to increase consumption in the next period, but that current consumption is growing to a lesser extent, than investment will grow, which is also one type of consumption and through the growth of investments we will provide for sustainable high growth and job creation over a long period of time. The projections show that we could create about 400,000 new jobs in the next 10 years. Finally, thirdly, to say the part, which will be defined in this growth, in this new model of growth, is that our deficit in the budget will slowly decrease and we have practically already given these fiscal parts to the Budgetary System Act, which on the one hand defines the limits of possible borrowings, and on the other hand shows the trend of the budget deficit, which by 2015 should lead to zero or balanced budgets and then stabilising our public debt. These are the basic elements of the matter, but the public will be more familiar with it through a study that will be available very quickly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47563	Thank you. I give my word to MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47564	Ladies and gentlemen, I come from Panchibara, from South Banat, and I must say first that I am pleased that the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development has resolved the issue of rest in Divchibara, which as a problem was present for citizens, especially children from Pancheva, because one moment, by the solution of a tourist inspector, there was a temporary suspension of work. However, just by understanding the whole situation and a good interpretation of the law, especially by ministry representatives and co-operation with State Secretary Petkovic's cabinet, the issue has been resolved. I must say, it's not just the engagement of MPs here on the tide, but also the direct contacts and attempts to solve such problems. Today's question, especially as Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic is present, concerns infrastructure in the area where more than 300,000 people live. That's the area of South Banat. We were at the opportunity, Mr. Mrkonjic and I, to participate together in the realization of the important traffic station Pančevo-Belgrad, when at the crossing of 1999-2000. The road road between Pančev and Belgrade has been realised in practice. I am now asking a question on all of those future investments, which concerns the improvement of life and conditions for business in the South Banat area, in terms of the realisation of the second track of the Belgrade-Pancevo railway line, then the electrification of the railway line to Romania, then the realisation of the planning and realization of the Vinca-Starčevo road bridge. This would allow the removal of heavy burdens and dangerous burdens outside the city settlements of Pancheva and Belgrade. The question then is the realization of the bypass in Vrsac semi, and also the highway later to the Romanian border. All this has to do with the realization of the Zemun-Borch Bridge. Then on plans to valorise the potential of now the Kovin military airport. In any case, you know that Panc's node is both gas and oil networks. We're on the Danube. The entire area of South Banat is on the Danube and is very important for the supply and citizenship, and also for the economy, the development of goods-transport centres. I'm just asking, so in the next period, in the period of this government and in the period of realization of the spatial plan, is everything that's written in the Space Plan if there's a disturbance in the realisation and how it's going to happen in the next period?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47565	Minister Mrkonjic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47566	I thought that except for two difficult questions, which Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic asked me in writing, I thank you, which I will try to make sure that before you reconstruct me, I end up both, and I see that today they're making me sick in the papers, and I have to tell them they won't have that chance. I'm in stronger shape than ever. I expect two more mandates to finish. Please, in this term, we're going with Corridor 10 on the road, and in the second term I'm finishing what you're talking about, Corridor 11. So now you've woken me up, you've given me a chance right now. Of course, all of what you have said is the priority of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and Corridor 11, so-called, under the so-called allegation, because it has not received official verification of the European Commission, but will receive it, especially from a meeting in Rome, in the next six years. This means that from Belgrade to Vrsac, the highway on which we opened the bypass two months ago. This means that the railway from Belgrade to Pancheva, yesterday I spoke on the subject here, one of the MPs, I think it was Mr Jojic, asked me about the trains, Beovos towards Panchev, that this railway that enters the Russian loan, that I call it, will be realised in the next year and that the electrification of the railway to Pancheva, i.e. to Vidina, will be completed according to the project. So, the entire Belgrade-Vršac/Temisvar corridor, located on the backbone of Corridor 11, enters and realises in the next year and a half. It won't be safe to break deadlines. The dynamics are very real. Jobs aren't tough, tunnels aren't heavy, and they'll be accomplished. What is very important to me, you said nicely about these resorts and I intervened today, and I am glad that Mr. Jojic and asked that question, to return to what you are now talking about, about the southern Banat. Of course Banat should represent himself, and these are the Italian owners of companies that have already made a statement in Romania, especially to the municipality in Vrsac and Panchev, that it is regional that are preparing to intervene. That is why the Italian government financed the construction of a feasibility study on how much the bar track, so the Bar to Belgrade railway, is capable of receiving all those burdens from Italy, meaning Bari-Bar-Belgrade-Vrsac, went to Romania. The Italian government funded the study, and now we are negotiating with the Italians to enter into the realisation of the project. So, what you said, I'm sure the southern Banat won't be on the turn of events, and I suppose the Prime Minister understands my wish, since I'm walking in the corridors, I have a terrible condition to get two more mandates to finish this job. Thank you. I apologize for the little joke.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47567	Thank you, Mr. Grouchy. Mr. Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47568	I've listed a lot of things at once, so we may forget something, but in any case we end the tour around Belgrade, and I always say as a local patriot around Belgrade and around Panchev, meaning, on the one hand, the closure of that round road in the profile of the highway and the Borca Bridge – Zemun, but also on the Vinca Bridge – Starchevo, I think it's very important, especially that in certain plans it stands as a road bridge. It assumes that realising this could be realized that all the dangerous burdens produced in the South Industrial Zone in Pancheva, in the petrochemical complex, will no longer go through Pancheva and Belgrade, but could go around, outside of densely populated places. This would reduce the risks of transport, and I find it extremely important to have another alternative traffic station, especially in terms of traffic density.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47569	Minister Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47570	I think Mr. Mikovic said exactly. I ran over it because I talked about it yesterday. The tour around Belgrade does not go to Bubanj Potok, he goes to Corridor 10 to Bubanj Potok, continues the railway road from Bubanj Potok, next to Vinca, across the bridge towards Panchev, because it is part of Corridor 11 that is tied to Romania in our priority. So you're absolutely right. We haven't forgotten, we're preparing to do it in the next period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47571	Thank you. Since no one wants to ask a parliamentary question, or since it is 19.00 hours now, we end today's session in which MPs are asking parliamentary questions to members of the government. I thank the Prime Minister, all ministers, and we continue to work on the agenda of the session that is under way. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2010. One year, with the proposals for a decision to give consent to the amendments and the addition of the financial plans for 2010. I was told that the session was interrupted when Mr Krasic asked for a word. Would you like a word, Mr. Krassic? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47572	Mr. Mašić is not here right now. There was a deal that there would be a break to get representatives of the government out.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47573	The MPs are asking me to take a five-minute break. In five minutes, we start working. [[After break – 19.05]] Ladies and gentlemen, MPs. Mr. Kasalovic has a word. The minister is in the building, coming any minute, and Mrs Stojiljkovic is here. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47575	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Party of Serbia and the United Serbia in principle supported the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Budget Law, estimating the need for a rebalance of the budget to be achieved primarily by a reflection of the economic situation in question and that, in the context of the global economic crisis, public spending is reduced to an acceptable extent. Of course, we have also supported the projected austerity measures, the freezing measures that remain in force with this budget rebalancing, but what was most important to us, the defining ones, is, above all, one of the specifics of this rebalancing in terms of its socio-development category and the allocations that have been defined for the protection of the most socially vulnerable, for children's protection, are very important and important to us in these conditions, and the condition that this rebalancing ensures a smooth and regular payment of pensions, as well as one-time aid. We have recognized the government's commitment to support the interior ministry's efforts, especially those that have often put their lives at risk in the fight against corruption and crime, and of course we want to support a rebalancing that defines an additional billion dinars to speed up the material position and standard of members of the Interior Ministry. We are certainly aware that this budget rebalancing is not what can meet all needs, but in this objective situation he is trying and in the best way he may be doing it. What we have tried and proposed to our amendments to the government, we have also indicated in the principle debate, and all of the speakers of the Socialist Party of Serbia, above all, pointed out that what we did not agree with immediately, is that we cannot consider the estimated funds of 890 million dinars additional for education to be the means by which we can conclude that education is expressed as a priority in this way. By estimating the importance and in the spirit of good debate, we have, in this sense, withdrawn an amendment seeking additional funding for the Ministry of Education, or for education, but we remain unconvinced in the view that these funds are insufficient. First of all, in such a small amount of funds are insufficient to invest, but certainly this part raises the normal functioning of the Ministry of Education. Of course, education should be a priority and a very important area in our society and should be allocated much more resources to invest in the facilities, and to improve, and to the student standard, and to the material position of people who work in education. It's all at this point that we don't seem to be at a satisfactory level. I hope that the Ministry of Finance will understand the good intentions and wishes of the Socialist Party of Serbia and the Single Serbia MPs to make constructive proposals show the need to invest as much as possible in education, and that it will certainly find an effort to provide the Ministry of Education with the necessary means for the final practical functioning in 2010, because in this case it is necessary to provide funds for both salaries and severance payments, and this is simply the domain of practical already functioning. I expect the Ministry of Finance in contact and with the competent Ministry of Education to find a way and opportunity for the Ministry of Education to function and carry out everything that it wanted and planned during 2010, and the Socialist Party of Serbia and Unity Serbia will certainly support the draft budget rebalancing, in hopes that these constructive proposals will contribute to making it better and that co-operation in the coming period will be even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47576	I thank Mr. Kasalovic. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milet Poscurica submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Pocurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47577	So, if we carefully look at the explanation of this proposal to amend the Budget Rebalancing Act and the economic indicators that apparently led the minister to come out with this proposal, we see that there is a relatively successful attempt to show us the state of reality in Serbia more favourable than expected in the current crisis. True, very often there were very different comments in two very important ministerial sectors, Minister Dinicic and Minister Dragutinovic, that the very important issues that concern directly or indirectly what we were talking about tonight were, quite different, dissonant tones. It's not only confusing our public, it can rightly bring us the data that we got here. The fact that industrial production is higher by 4.4% last year, while the construction sector, which last year was the backbone of development, was the most affected by it, by 20% is lower than expected, that tourism failed 10%, direct investment for twice as much, with the fact that what is really in this amendment is the country's extreme debt, and that, if seen more carefully, a very large number of items and a large number of financial institutions, where we are in debt even with the deadline of 2040 and some years. Some of them are already at the end of the payoff, some of the payments will start in the coming years. We can see that these currently 12 billion euros, almost almost 12 billion euros, and they're more 15% than last year, we can only get an approximate picture of what it's going to look like in the coming years. What in turn is Serbia that has sold everything, and where the income from the sale seems to be not a third of the current debt that has been shown here in the budget rebalancing, we all understand. So this interventionist move by the Minister, or the Government to preserve even social peace, cannot give any real justification or real hope to our citizens. Indeed, we are faced with the fact that a large number of investments that the credits, payments the state must make, cover, are in progress or at the end, so there is no improvement, perhaps not even in Serbiagas, in roads, in schools, in health care or in paying back debts to agricultural producers and replacing their pensions, nor effective exchange of foreign savings, etc. They're different basics of using to take credit. Now we see that it's all on glass feet. The only thing that matters is that the state is over-indebted. We see that there will be no budget rebalancing, or at least there is no indication that it will be better for one of the most vital points that remains somehow in the shadow of everything, the most vital problem, the problem of protesting students because they cannot enroll master studies. It may be the subject of my discussion following the next amendment I speak of. It is terrible that someone has already made a decision as far as schooling can and become a graduate, or master. Who has decided, and where has the proportion in the government, but with what pre-calculation and what logic, what statistics, with what fundamental content, with the fundamental deviation that Belgrade needs to receive 2600 masters and Kragujevac 211 masters? Who polarized those kids, those students? Why didn't you tell them when you passed that law, that this law that you bring to reform education means at the same time reforming Serbia's need for highly educated personnel. You'll force some of them to become cherries, to be incompletely graduate students with three years of studies, to be unskilled. At the same time, the state declares the goal or registers a public sense of need to do more in high-level personnel education, as there are not even 8% of the European average visas that we are obviously not going to reach in the next 50 years, if this continues. The budget will not solve but social burning problems, which each of us agrees, that when it comes to the end, we have to solve it and it will not solve other important problems. We've been in charge for too long and too long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47578	Parliamentarians Zeljko Tomic and Milan Lapčević submitted together to the 3rd amendment. Mr. Milan Lapcevic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47579	Dear Presidency, Madam Minister, we have proposed in Article 3 that in Part B under regular number two points 5) be deleted, as well as point 1), under regular number three for the following reasons. This section discusses the credit responsibilities of the Republic of Serbia. I'm speaking to the Minister, but she's not here. He's in the building. Okay, she's probably following this through the transmission. Great. I don't know how we can work without a representative of the government, but I believe in your promise that she will show up and answer everything I ask her. (President: The Minister is in the building. She'll be here in a few minutes, Mrs Stojljkovic is here, following you, and she'll tell her everything you say. Please, go ahead. ) Mrs Stojiljkovic, please follow me and transfer everything to the Minister. We have proposed that the 21m and 600,000 euros credit debt be suspended for the following reasons. The Republic of Serbia will be in charge of international credit institutions for this amount of money in order to, according to the project, improve research and development in the public sector, thinking that the money is invested in restoring scientific potential, equipment of the laboratory, etc. But looking at the project and its components, a good part of those components, almost 60-70% refers to buildings and buildings. We will take 20m euros to improve science and create preconditions for Serbia's intelligence and for those young people who finish colleges in better conditions, which will be spent mainly on building adaptations, housing buildings and park construction. This is really not a good solution, that Serbia is not quite enough to have enough space for people to do science, but to invest a lot more in science equipment and enable our people not to go abroad to achieve their wishes and intend to do scientific and research work, and thus help their country, but to invest that money in equipment rather than adapt and build buildings. We think it's absolutely unnecessary. The only resource this country has as a quality is human. The only resource that can create a new value is humans. You have to invest in people, not in buildings, not die capital, and that's why you don't borrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47580	Both MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted to the 3rd amendment. Mr. Djuric wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47581	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleague Popovic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. The draft law, where in Article 3, under regular number five, point 3.1 is deleted. Namely, this is about giving guarantees to the Republic of Serbia for the Mining-Toping Basen Bor, and we believe that the state should not be engaged in entrepreneurship business, because so far it has proved to be a bad investor. We are fully aware of the importance of the mining-topic base of Bor and the importance that mines and smelts work. In our development programme – Serbia by 2015, we elaborated a restructuring programme for this base, so that the state could implement the restructuring process and find a strategic partner for the Mining-Topionary Basen. In this restructuring process, it is necessary to make the company attractive and offer it to private investors and sell it as such, so that private investors continue to invest in its development rather than in the state’s business. Of course there are interested customers and strategic partners for the base Bor. This proved on three occasions, however, because of the government's inadequate relationship with them so far, they have given up. In that sense, we have submitted this amendment and I urge you to reconsider it and accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47582	The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Mr. Pejcic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47583	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I'd like to welcome Mrs. Minister, but she's not here. Just tell me, she's here virtually, probably, she'll show up. The Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group has submitted about 15 amendments. The government and the minister have not accepted any amendments. She spoke earlier about coming to the Assembly with prejudice that all MPs were voting for the laws proposed by the minister. We offer one political agreement, let her accept all our amendments and the DSS parliamentary group will vote for this rebalancing, as politics is a matter of compromise. We expect the Minister to come and accept this offer. My colleague, Jovan Palalic, and I have submitted the amendment to Article 3. It is a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia regarding the loan of the only air carrier in Serbia, which is JAT, to take over from the Sosite General Bank and the Uni Credit Bank for the revitalisation of the company. We had the opportunity to sell this airline back in the previous period, when candidates for the purchase of the company were, above all, "Aeroflot" from Russia and "Er India", but someone in the government didn't want to sell the JAT at the time, did not want to sell that resource. Now the government guarantees, guarantees the same company to revitalise its fleet to sell to a third company. That's, we're assuming, "Turkish Airlines." We let Turkey go to Raska, and we'll probably give it that air space of ours. I'm sorry Mrs. Secretary isn't here. I hope we've convinced the government sufficiently, and the Minister to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47584	Ambassador Srdjan Milivojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47585	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, but above all, the respected citizens of Serbia, therefore, cannot accept that the sale of JAT would represent the sale of the airspace of the Republic of Serbia. The airspace is the airspace of the Republic of Serbia, and JAT is the Yugoslav airline, i.e. an air carrier. It doesn't make much sense to each other. The sale of an air carrier is desirable if a good strategic partner is to be found and if you know that someone will buy it in advance and if you bid ahead right now that someone from Turkey will buy JAT, you probably have some knowledge that has a shadow government. The government of the Republic of Serbia has no such knowledge at the moment. Does this speak of the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? No, I don't. This speaks more of you than of the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because the intention to sell the airspace is what you said, and no one from the ruling majority and no one from the Government of the Republic of Serbia has said. So, once again, I underline, as NIS, the oil industry of Serbia, did not mean that we sold the Republic of Serbia to the Russians, but we sold the NIS, so the sale of JAT does not mean that we sell a piece of the territory of the Republic of Serbia or the airspace of the Republic of Serbia, but we only sell the air carrier.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47586	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47587	Mrs Dejanovic, I am going to extend this amendment a little bit, because there are a lot of amendments to Article 3, which concerns the extension and state of the debt of the Republic of Serbia, so I am not just going to talk about what is really relevant, so that I can simply complete the time for all amendments to this article. It is good that the Budgetary System Act requires that the component of the budget be both a guarantee and a debt situation. That wasn't the case once. But what did we get from a statistical display like this? We received one budget that represents statistics on the government's policy of the Republic of Serbia. Then we see that simply this government is not in the right circumstances, but I have to extend it to all governments since 2001. What is the characteristic of these governments and these budgets? The characteristic, Mrs Stojiljkovic, is that we still don't have the final accounts for 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, I'm not calling you for 2009, but, you know, we've been clapped by democracy and we've got a new democratic standard, so the democratic government doesn't take account of what it was and how it worked. It's never happened since 1940 and some years ago. If that's a democratic standard, all right, just say the word. But we need to know that it is not in accordance with the Constitution and the Budgetary System Act. When one such report is not submitted for that number of years, then we have to create one retrospective, to see what it's actually done in these few years. Then we come to one conclusion that in this ghastly road to the EU, which should have a definition of the state of prosperity, we have applied something that Europe has not quite accepted, which is this Washington consensus, which means privatisation, meaning internal and external liberalisation, means at all costs ensuring the stability of course and price and means balancing of the budget. This in our conditions in Serbia meant the following – selling, spending and then in debt. So this debt grew, and each year this debt has more and more to grow, for one simple reason that all possible positive effects of these processes have emerged as negative effects. We have fundamental damage from privatisation because there has been no increase in employment, no growth in GDP, no takeover of some markets, but rather, the statistics the government has said and in the context of this reasoning of this law are quite the opposite. So we have a constant growth in unemployment, we have a constant decline in the physical volume of production, we have a constant reduction in social transfers, and we already have negative trends in continuity. For example, with contributions to pension and disability insurance in 2008, the drop was 0.01%, last year it was 3.3%, this year who knows what the drop will be based on the contributions paid. Of course, there is a big hole in public finances to secure these funds. Then we go on a terrible duty without knowing why we're in charge. Then in the budget rebalancing we see different items moving and then we come to the conclusion that not all our duties are covered only by these investment works, such as corridors, etc., but we also have current responsibilities because of the problem of current budget financing, but we also have hidden funding of some things that can't be spent at all. It's this predominant administration, which is just a big expense. We have seen a rise in the number of employees in the state service and in the public sector, a decrease in the number of employees in the economy. Then the question arises – what are we doing? I get the impression that what is a pattern for Central Europe, and something that started in 1870, when Bizmark opposed social democracy and socialists, then through Great Britain, the Law on Poverty, then via the Weimar Republic, then in 1930, something that Canes invented or reminded us of, is being misread for crisis periods. It used to be a policy of public works. These words, when they say, then create some negative association, but it is based primarily on a major increase in public spending affecting employment growth, but at the same time reducing taxes. We do not reduce taxes, debt increases, and employment does not increase. If borrowing is not in the function of providing new jobs, hiring, then we're in charge for nothing, then you've forgotten the basic definition of a social state. Each state must be distinguished by some degree of social justice. What does that look like? You see, if there were no social transfers, let's say, in Sweden, it counts as if it had come to this farthest, if there were no social transfers, then the poverty rate would be 23.7%. Because the social state appears, they have 5.8% poverty. In the Netherlands, with 22.1%, thanks to social transfers, it comes to 7.3% of poverty. What's going on with us? We also have a mutilated statistical view of poverty, and what goes on as a social transfer is enough just to mention pensions, two years do not align. Did our taxes go down? No, they're not. Because they're not, they're mostly going to the gray economy. So this country doesn't have instruments that can run a balanced policy. Now let me tell you about deficit standards, debt, etc., that's really pointless. Why pointless? I'd quote Mirko Cvetkovic, we're statistically out of the crisis, but let him go to some village and publish those epochal statistical results. Don't do that. That's not the way it's done, and as a result of this country's leadership, we have this situation that we're giving up, we're giving up customs, we're giving up customs, we're just trying to get to someone, because apparently, we're now in a phase where we're going to be able to use pre-accession funds, 35 to 40% of these funds won't even come into this country, and the debt will remain for those who live in this country. What use do we have? Do you see what this National Assembly is made of, just walking around some youth delegations, seminars, it's rudely entering, and why? Because they know that budgets or para-state funds finance and their activities, and of course, that's how people who haven't earned one in their lives behave rudely. It's hard to make money, and they can't run the state just for those who know how to spend money. I guess the state needs to run those who know how to make money, how to create a new value. Unfortunately, we in the government don't have people like that. In the entire system of government we have trainees, first job – State Secretary, first job – Assistant Minister, First Employment – Head of Department. What's his advantage in being there? He knows languages, he showers three times a day, etc. What are you guys talking about? Turn around and look at Serbia. Of your epochal results, your rebs, your questionnaires, that no longer interests anyone, and do you believe that people don't have bread to eat? Now someone can say, now I've called on the phone in my neighborhood the ransom price, everything's fine, everything's paid, and for the milk, and everything's fine. It only takes how long the replica takes, so when the President of the Republic says it is a problem with milk, then the expert shut up. We have to face reality. That's the basic problem, so these budgets, budget rebalances, these positions in the budget, just don't match reality. Mrs Dragutinovic said that two years ago she first defended the budget here and, of course, smiled just as she smiled and now, she didn't believe what was going to happen. Of course, then he starts with some theoretical debate, and that doesn't interest anyone, absolutely no one and no one wants to talk here. Budget is one thing of life. Unfortunately, in these papers that you gave us, a lost man is lost, an ordinary man is lost, you don't see him, and I draw attention to you, the internal debts are growing, they're growing terribly. The state is one of the biggest debtors, you know, in terms of social contributions to citizens and it triggers a chain of mutual debt. You see, because of that building in Germany 9, there are several hundred construction companies that can't work, there are two or three contractors, and 50 subcontractors, and there are even some people who are relatives in the government with these contractors and they grab their heads, say, a big debt, well, whether it's going to be at the government's session, rerouting funds from one position to pay off, and they say they won't. Why? Depends, they say, on one man. Wait, please, as you want to collect taxes, contributions from someone, because if the state can say, we haven't paid for the heating because we don't have the money, so can a citizen who doesn't have the money to pay for the electricity or some other obligation. The citizens are over-indebted. Look at the little business these houses are doing, see what's coming back, what's getting taken away. I'm not going to quote your balance of payments and your data on the foreign trade deficit, and now it's already at four billion euros. This is where we talk about the epochal expectations that we will be exporting to solve the issue of our economy. What would you like to take out? Just before he was God, he probably wanted to export the Pyrocans, what else to export? We just asked Mirko Cvetkovic, and he says in the next period we will employ 400,000. Come on, give these 250,000 back for firing, but no, those 400,000 new ones. Wait, guys, there's some press-clipping, there's a stenogram to remind you of what you've been saying and what you've been doing. The situation is really serious, and by laughter and by reactions, it seems that we have people in power who cannot take seriously the situation of Serbia and the Serbian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47588	The word is from Ambassador Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47589	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, this budget rebalance shows us in some way and paints, not only the effects of the global economic crisis in Serbia, but throughout the world, because through this budget we can see how the crisis reflects and what it looks like in Serbia and what the situation of this crisis is. Some who have talked loudly about budget rebalancing, some who most likely are ugly with the government's economic crisis, some who are the loudest to complain about the social suffering and the fate of the Serbian people and the state of Serbia, in fact through criticism of this budget propose a single solution to getting out of the crisis, which is their return to power. They simply tell the citizens – only you vote for us, just give us a chance and opportunity and we will solve all the problems. When we say -- Serbian citizens, we are who we are in the opposition, then we think of the Serbian citizens' wallet. We, when we say Serbian citizens, think that we will re-occupy in the chairs of state-owned enterprises and that we will again pay for the cost of the Serbian state to print books, business lunches. Some, you know, when they ran this country, and especially its public enterprises and when they were ministers, they called a criminal expedition, because then in criminal expeditions in some places something remains and something remains in some public enterprises. After those who are the loudest today and who are the loudest to complain, there is nothing left but enormous debts, millions of abuses, robberies, kidnappings, everything that was state, national, which was common good, it was turned into personal good. Citizens of Serbia, it is the legitimate right of everyone to try on the political scene of Serbia to pass on social demagogy to voters. If someone thinks in this room that someone from the Government of the Republic of Serbia doesn't know the situation of the crisis, that someone sitting here in the ruling majority is unaware of how citizens live, they mock themselves, not the citizens of Serbia and us. We live not in Pakistan, or Moscow, or Tokyo, but in the cities of Serbia where we come from every day and every day we meet with citizens. When we propose budget rebalancing, we look at what we can, how and where to properly deploy and distribute those effects of the crisis, first of all, to feel the richest, then the poorest. Of course, the crisis always feels the poorest, and only then the richest, but of course, when someone runs a responsible social policy, he tries to close down a hundred holes with ten fingers, and sometimes it's an impossible mission, and sometimes someone always gets denied. I'd like, you know, to have a hat and a yellow streak here, and I'd like to say, "I want a donut princess," but there isn't, because here we have what we have and what we can share the way we share." Come on, when you're so smart and good, here, let me give you this blank paper, so let me say, give me your budget proposal, and what will you pay me back? It's the same blank paper, because taboo rasa, it's a policy of demagogy. It's not there. (Zeljko Tomic: Replica. So I really don't understand why you're protesting. I really don't understand. Give me a better budget proposal. No, you're just criticizing the budget. After all, Serbia is full of those politicians who are always complaining, give us a chance, create conditions, give us opportunities, and you'll see what we know, we can, as far as we can, as much as we want. In fact, they look the best then, as they express themselves, that's how they court the voters. Otherwise, better conditions and chances only compromise them, because those who had the opportunity to be in power, in a much better and happier time when there was no global economic crisis, did not show that they knew anything other than to spend their own money and money on Serbian citizens and money from the Republic of Serbia's budget to survive in power. Not for the greater good, but for the sake of survival in power. The difference between us and them is that today we have a really difficult economic crisis, not as an excuse, but as a real and factual state which and how it makes it difficult, primarily the lives of ordinary people, and only then the functioning of the government and the functioning of other institutions of this country. On the other hand, when some others in this hall today, I say the loudest complain about Serbia's fate and economic situation, were in power, the whole world enjoyed prosperity, and the crisis was only with us and they were the generators of the crisis. They were the ones who created and encouraged the crisis, because only in times of crisis did they survive in power for too short, but they were in power. Now, how does someone think they can make economic well-being under much more difficult circumstances today than when they're in power? How does someone in general who has produced an enormous economic crisis today think that with these knowledge, these abilities, and these possibilities can be better managed by this country? Not at all. And they're aware of that, too. That's why they're just sitting there criticizing, but they're not suggesting anything. Never a suggestion, just a criticism. Nothing's wrong. It's all gone. It all fell apart. There is one life experience to be shared with Serbian citizens. When you hear what they're just whining and narrating and saying nothing's wrong, Serbian citizens, don't hope for anything in your life, just so you can get more if you vote eventually for them. If you don't expect anything from them, you won't get anything. So you'll be pleasantly surprised if you get a bit of something, but your crumb, it'll be their lump. Their rock. Unfortunately, this rock is pressing today the budget of the Republic of Serbia and pressing the wallet of every citizen of this country. These are the remains we face. When we say that there are people today who will always work and think as they have always been, we need to know that they will always be where and so far in opposition, because they don't really care about taking responsibility. They're just interested in criticism. The only thing they care about when they criticise and one solution to get out of the crisis is to say – we are an alternative, vote for us. Vote for us, we will solve all the problems, we know to take care of all the problems by not reducing these problems but by increasing them, because we all know what it was like to exercise power when those who impose themselves as an alternative were able to solve problems. So some people don't need to get rid of tobacco, because calling an accident is a much bigger vice than it is with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47590	Two MPs advertised the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Pejcic and Tomic. Who wants to go first? Here you go, Mr. Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47591	Madam President, Mrs Djukic Dejanovic, you had to react when, under article 107, dignity was injured when the term "tabula rasa" was used in the context in which it was used, because it was indeed an insult, which gives me the opportunity to respond to what was said by the previous speaker Mr Milivojevic. Whoever's proposing here and who's shown up in action, we've already had a chance to see that. From 2004 to 2008, we have an economic programme that is stronger and better for the class than the government's economic programme. On Sunday, I invite you, Mr. Milivojevic, to the Expo Centre where you will see a programme for the 21st city in Serbia that proposes DSS, so it is entirely false that no one proposes anything. Secondly, I am pleased that one ruling MP has shown a complete opposition to President Boris Tadic, we have heard from Mr Milivojevic that the MPs are the ruling coalition and that they are aware of what kind of crisis they are living in and that we all need to share it evenly, but I will remind him of the words of the president of the Republic and the president of his party, who said that the crisis is our chance, a developmental chance for Serbia. Well, you haven't taken advantage of that chance, because as you yourself say, time is hard and now it's not nice just to criticize but to suggest something. We have proposed, we propose, and you are in opposition directly with your president, saying completely the opposite things. I'm totally glad to hear it, because worse power doesn't remember this Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47592	Mr. Pejcic by the book.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47593	I'm reporting for article 27 where you were supposed to react to Mr. Milivojevic's exposure when he said tabula rasa, referring to us MPs. I would remind Mr Milivojevic of the time she was in power until 2003. Serbia remembers that period, but I think it will soon forget. You remember, Mr. Milivojevic, your ministers, when they ruled Serbia at the time and when they were part of the executive government, when certain projects were afforded certain funds, and I'm talking about Mrs. Rushetti, who was then the minister of traffic. Remember how the airport was renovated, it was your member, so remember during that period your minister, Mr Djelic earned a ninem-euro game, so they called him during that period by the Duke of Meridian Bank, I don't know why. That was the period when the DS ruled. I suppose these are only for you, Mr. Milivojevic, because that's how you prepare to be part of the opposition in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47594	Mr. Paicic, I actually had an intention to react, but you called before me. I would like to ask MPs not to speak to each other but to Parliament. The 4th Amendment was submitted by the Government, the Finance Committee accepted the amendment... According to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47595	I'm really misread, first of all, and I don't know why someone recognized themselves in the "Tabula Raza" sentence. On the other hand, the word "tabula rasa" is translated from Aristotle's term from "Soul" where it's said that a man is born with a pure soul on which nothing is written, and that means "tabula rasa". Now, what's bothering you, I really don't know. Why did you identify yourself from the DSS, and I wasn't talking to you, I don't know. So that's really your problem if you've identified yourself, not mine, but it says "tabula rasa" means the expression in "Soul List" for citizens of Serbia. He says that every man is born of pure souls, unscathed souls, and all the later in his life is an upgrade, either sociologically or psychologically. That's what all people who deal with macropsychology or macrosocialology know about, and I don't see anything really offensive about it if someone is born of a pure soul, a divine soul and a pure soul enters politics. And what it looks like is a city where the DSS was in power, I know best. I come from Kruševec, we found a city with 6.5m euros in debt, and now I have to go to some Expo Centre to see what they're going to offer. So, what are they gonna offer them? So 650 million debt, because 21 cities times 6.5 million, so the interest payments are due, so it can't even pay the budget of the city of Basel, let alone the town of Kruševec. Thank you very much. I don't have time to waste. I don't want to go to the Expo Center.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47596	Mr. Tomic did not list a member, just like Mr. Milivojevic. Which member did you list? Article 107. I really didn't hear Please, let's get back to the subject. [[Alexander Pejcic, from the site: I am reporting for replication.]] There is no basis for replication, Mr. Milivojevic only explained how he experiences and understands the term tabula rasa and that is absolutely true. He wasn't talking to you. Please, don't rub it in with me, you don't have the right to replication. The government has submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. The Finance Committee has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the 3rd Amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic to article 4 of the amendment. Here you go, Mr Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47597	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's something that the SNS agrees with some of the ruling parties, which is that when it comes to the government we have a bulky government, that we have a government that and too much taxpayers' money spend, that we can have a much more effective government and that government with a much smaller number of ministers, but also with a much smaller number of government vice-presidents can also, or I hope much more effectively than this government is doing a job that puts Serbian citizens before it. So, specifically, the SNS has been seeking to abolish the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for European Integration with this amendment. We are fully aware that the Ministry Act is designed for this cabinet, but we think it is an opportunity to through one suggestion, since you have already announced the reconstruction of the Government and you have in mind and the positions of the Deputy Prime Minister, it is some amount of 41 million people, and Mr Djelic is also a minister of science, if I am not mistaken, and there is a cabinet there. We also have an office for European integration that, as you claim, is doing a very good job. Therefore, this Vice-President's office is more than excessive and I hope you will respond to this SNS suggestion when the government is reconstructed and we will not have in the next draft budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47598	At Section 3, 14, 15, 16, 17, 19 and 23, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapcevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47599	Dearly respected Madam Minister, I have suggested that in various sections, mainly economic classifications of services under contract, travel, specialised services, etc., a reduction of certain resources, a percentage of funds, and that all be added to a special economic classification in the transfer of funds to local self-government, somewhere in total of six billion and 300 million dinars. At the end of 2008, local self-government was the worst in the distribution of funds from the state budget, with your ministry forecasting that 40% of the funds received by local self-government transfers would be further reduced transfers to local self-government. The situation today in local self-government across Serbia is catastrophic, especially in those municipalities that are small, poor, which do not have their own economy and whose standard of population is very low and on this basis cannot even make their own revenues to a more significant extent, but mostly depends on the transfers coming from the state level. These transfers have been reduced mostly linearly, so according to this, the poorest municipalities and have borne the greatest burden in municipal transfers, in state-level transfers, so the situation in these municipalities today is poor. Investments from the municipal budgets have practically cost a fortune. Large debts for the works carried out, loans burdened by local self-government and local self-government budgets are today's daily life in nearly 50% of Serbia's municipalities. Last month's constant conference and cities and municipalities came out with a common stance and initiative to return to the budget rebalancing, but also to the budget for next year's transfers to local self-governments to the previous level and that they amount to as much as they were before, for the simple reason that the further survival of municipalities, especially those of the poorest, is directly linked to transfers from the state budget. In an explanation, which the Government has given by considering amendments, it has been said - the amendment is not accepted for reasons contrary to Article 44. The budget system law, which provides that the amending budget proposal must be within the maximum deficit set out in the draft government budget. But that clearly says that no one has read this amendment. No one broke the budget, no one broke the deficit. So, I'm talking about my amendment. It all fits with the numbers, as much as it's reduced to certain items, it's so much increased on the city transfer item, so I really don't understand what this answer is. Or it's a cliché, as someone writes. This is a false sentence, Mrs Dragutinovic. So no one broke the deficit. Take and collect everything that's been downloaded from individual positions, add with what's placed in the position of transfer to municipalities, so you'll see that I'm right. What I would also like to say is, here it is mentioned in previous discussions that this budget is actually a reflection of the crisis that is in the world and that it can't actually be better and that we've actually distributed this budget as much as we have and the best that we can do. I'd just ask if it's possible that this economic crisis has only hit the Serbs? She hit all the lands? Great. Then how did Bulgaria cut us? How did Macedonia and Albania cut us off on average? Look at the statistics officially. Last month, Serbia has the lowest salary in Europe. Bosnia and Herzegovina crossed us on average. Bosnia and Herzegovina, in which the war ruled for four years and ran across the country, cut Serbia. You are today, not you directly, but your government has brought this country, to which Milos Obrenović, while managing it, prided himself and built on livestock and agriculture, and today you have led us to have no more milk than we produce. It's grief. It's misery. A country like this, with this potential, with this kind of agriculture, can't produce enough milk for its own purposes today. Any sadder news? Is there any word that can say how incompetent this authority is when it comes to the fact that milk shortages in Serbia are today? So it's absolutely impossible to consider anything at a more serious level, if this fact is in mind. I suggest that this amendment be reconsidered and accepted, for the simple reason that, without the transfer of larger local self-governments, they will not be able to function in the future, they will not be able to develop their infrastructure and we will come to that position which, unfortunately, has been in place for years, that the population from the poorest municipalities of the village, for the simple reason that they cannot find a job there, which they cannot establish their family and which in these municipalities is ruled by misery and misery. Poverty mostly resides where there is no revenue in the budgets, and where the state takes everything it can. On this basis, more than 60,000 people have moved out of Southeast Serbia each year, mainly in Belgrade and more developed parts of Serbia. It's something that is the country's cancer, and you, with constant borrowing and senseless spending at the state level, and not by transferring money to local self-government, are directly encouraging that population migration. I would ask you to reconsider this amendment and, in accordance with the conclusion of the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, adopt it, in order to meet the crisis in cities and municipalities, created by your policy and by subtracting a large percentage of transfers from the state level, to return to its original state.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47600	National MP Srdjan Milivojevic
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47601	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, is aware of the fact that there is still much to be done and there are many amendments, but I really must answer only when it comes to milk shortages. So, through this budget, we certainly try to make an effort, especially through the 2011 budget, a better strategy for the development of agriculture in Serbia, but how did the milk shortage in Serbia occur? It is not a reminder when the monopoly position on the milk market was created, when Imlek was privatized, who privatized him, who was able to privatise the biggest milkmaker. I have spoken here several times, some have not understood, and even today their misunderstandings show in their discussions, when I was saying that with this buying-in price of milk, milk production cannot be maintained, but I have pointed out, for example, the villages of Veliki Šiljegovac, where the owner of the Ekolek dairy factory at the time, running the race with Imlek, paying seven dinars of milk more per litre, than the village of Imlek does, and that day, some do not understand that I said it at the time and that I had already announced the milk shortage during that discussion. So if no serious plan is made to save dairy production, the dairy industry, due to a monopoly that did not occur during the government's term, Serbia will still have a problem with milk production. On the other hand, if we're talking about when, who and how he bought the biggest milkers and which party was involved, I can certainly tell the calm souls that we don't recognize here, you too. Those who recognize each other will definitely come forward. But again, I underline, if we want a proper strategy for the development of dairy, it's not the subject of this budget, but certainly our proposal, which was made by these very agricultural producers, the winners of gold medals at the Novosad Fair and medal winners and the champion of the Novosad Fair and the absolute champion of the Novosad Fair, which are the breeders of symental cows from the village of Veli Šijegovec, then that strategy they did, if we implement it in the state strategy, will have a solution to the milk supply crisis.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47602	Mr. Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47603	Just a few sentences. Milk shortages are not caused by monopolies on the market. Milk shortages were caused, above all, by reduced transfers, or reduced grants in the agriculture budget. So milk premiums have been reduced since 2009 and by making a new budget. From 22 billion to three billion, as it was in 2008 in the Ministry of Agriculture's budget for premiums and aid for agriculture, it was reduced to 15 billion. There's a reason there's not enough milk on the market. There's a reason why people sell cattle or it's a slaughter and there's a reason that Serbia doesn't have enough milk as a agricultural country today, but has to import it. You are the generator of the shortage, because the premiums from the state budget are reduced. For many years, there has been an increase in milk production through the premiums and the restoration of the stock fund, but only by two years of reduced premiums and a completely poor policy in the area of agriculture and aid to farmers, we have come to the situation that Serbia is importing milk today.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47604	Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47605	I take a huge risk, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, because two predecessors are right. These are DOS results, it's easy for you to smile, you SPS weren't involved in this. They're right about each other and about the monopoly and about the premium, but if I read the stenograms who said what they said a few months ago here, I can see that this rhetoric is changing now, given that some others, meanwhile, have concluded that there's a milk shortage. I don't want to quote it now, so they can cover themselves. When we were on time showing what was going to happen, they were smiling, and now they're retarded, no, but let's see with this member what's going on. It is an exceptional honor for us to have Mrs Diana Dragutinovic present here, who is the chairman of the commission to address the issue of funding local self-government, and this amendment refers to that very part. Mrs Dragutinović, a few years ago a law on the financing of local self-government was passed, it was said to be the best law, it contains European standards and I can tell you that the promoter of this law was Mr Mladjan Dinkic. It has been said that this law will solve all problems, not when the budget is adopted, the part where it is to talk about the transfer from the republican budget to local self-government, that MPs are coming into a situation to demonstrate their local patriotism, in such a way that each person, in nominal terms, would submit amendments and increase funds for his municipality. Then these transfers are regulated in an extremely good way. Now, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, I take the risk, since I have to quote. I quote that 151 mayor or president of the municipality from the territory of the Republic of Serbia signed a petition against the government of the Republic of Serbia, and in that petition, states that the government of the Republic of Serbia has been not applying the Law on Local Self-Government for two years. Then the ministers come out and say, "Yes, we suspended the law, we won't apply it." I don't remember it being on the agenda of the law about putting aside the law on the financing of local self-government. We have in the government individuals who can say – this law is not applicable. I'm sorry, where's the creepy Homen, to end this situation, in a creepy way. Now, in defense of that attitude, Mrs Dragutinovic said one sentence, paraphrasing, but I cannot miss the point, because I know, I have an interview whole, she says – and local self-government must share the fate of those who receive from the republican budget. They should also be reduced, and then 151 the president of the municipality, the mayor, are united and say – but, Madam Minister, we are looking for those money that belongs to us by law, not because of wages, but because of kindergartens, local roads, heating and other things. In order to satisfy these conflicts within one party, and probably because of the congress, an epochal solution is found, and it is said, we plan two billion dinars for local self-government, but with the same rebalancing we find another billion dinars for the BIA. And you've increased the BIA by a billion, by a rebalance. You don't know that? How do I know and you don't know? You came to me with a rebalance, didn't I come to you with your rebalancing? How could BIA get another billion? Some productivity, per capita, what is it? How do you give them? Do you have any idea how many suns have happened with Serbian finances the moment Saric's affair broke out? You've seen what they say. Your ministers say -- I don't know how many hundreds of millions of euros were washed through the banking system of the Republic of Serbia. That kind of money washed up and the BIA doesn't have any money. How is that possible? Each third, Serbia's fourth successful company has the founders of former BIA or MUP workers. They participate in tenders, public procurement, get jobs in public enterprises, build prices, do whatever they want. Public enterprises must lease former BIA workers' space within one of their companies, with 20,000-30,000 euros in advance to pay the rent. Serbia is very small, you know. What's wrong with you? So the law on funding of local self-government is not applicable. He solved the minister and several ministers and now he's created a new commission to see the situation. Mrs Dragutinovic is the chairman of the commission. You can imagine, Zoran Alimpic, deputy mayor, official in Belgrade, I don't know what he is now, and he signed on behalf of the city of Belgrade. Of the 192 units of local self-government, 150 and something mustered up the courage to write, and mostly the people who signed the parties that are in power at the republical level, and let me remind you, during last year's campaign in some places, these same people said – vote for us since we are with the government in the coalition, we will provide employment in local self-government and we will provide large transfers because we are in power. And then we get into a situation where there's nothing, and the point of that, just before what Mr. Djelic said -- I'm a state official, but I don't want to see the leadership of those municipalities where there are no Democrats in power. I have nothing personal against it, to tell you the truth. I don't think that's right, that it's not in line with some things, but you're constantly changing democratic standards. When you change democratic standards, you make sure you're up there, you're down, you're down, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're down, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're down, you're down, Don't be surprised, the mood is great, not only for citizens but for local authorities and even for people who are quite loyal to you. I get the impression that this kind of loyalty fades more and more every day.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47606	The amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Budimirovic to article 4th. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the Third Amendment, MP Igor Becic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Vuceta Toskovic, submitted to the 4th Section of the 3rd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the 3rd and 21st amendments, MP Donka Banovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the 3rd Amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Zankov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ljiljana Miladanovic submitted to Article 4 of the 3rd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 4 by MP Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4, paragraphs 3 and 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Riza Halimi. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by the People’s MP, Milorad Buh, to Article 4 of the 10th and 16th of the amendment. The word has been made by Ambassador Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47607	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, here at this late hour we are dealing with a problem that is very important and we need to give you a comment, this is the most important act of the state, here, after ten hours of serious debate on other issues, discussing what is vital to the interests and interests of the citizens of Serbia. The amendment refers to the division of the 10th of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the division of 16. The Department of Justice. It's about economic classification 421. What the SRS has always sought for years at both rebalancing and budget adoption always requires savings, always requires serious access by state authorities to reduce costs, and this is precisely in these constant costs, in the case of labour contracts and other items that can be reduced in serious savings programmes. But this government doesn't want to save, and the best example is what you can see here. It is surprising that, in the government's explanation of the government's response to this amendment, it is a completely wrong determination. This is where you mention the fees for the construction land of the city of Belgrade, etc., I don't know how you got this? Mrs Dragutinović, it was probably one of your services, I don't know where that came from when my amendment refers to the split of the 10th and split the 16th. The Department of Foreign Affairs and the Department of Justice, but to leave now, it's not the first time, it's usually happening. We set an amendment to a specific suggestion, we get answers to the other, or they're empty answers or answers have no essence, etc., that's already common. What's the point? The point is to reduce where there's room and the Foreign Ministry, not to go into all the affairs that have come out of this ministry in the last year. The Ministry of Justice and the so-called We can't talk about justice reform. What is the essence of this amendment? The bottom line is that by saving, what the whole world is doing in these conditions, it's a serious crisis, a serious programme, a programme of measures in terms of reducing all possible costs, the bottom line is that we focus everything we save on where we have good natural resources, we have good conditions for development, and that's agriculture. Why? We can also get from you that information that the only business branch that has a surplus in its continuity is agriculture with almost the smallest percentage of detachment in subsidies because our percentage for last year was 2.4 and this year is 3.2, about 17 billion. Why don't we double it? What farmers are looking for, what professional associations are looking for, what the Chamber of Commerce is looking for, what is the essence of life is being. Let's respect where we have natural preconditions. We have natural preconditions in agriculture and must invest in agriculture. These days, because of the problem of milk shortages, we can read in the means of informing what happens in cattle, especially in male cows. Here's one piece of information. In 1999. Serbia had 938,000 cows. In 2000. Eighty-seven thousand. How old is 2010 – 468,000. It is said that during this year 80,000 cows were slaughtered, and 30,000 cows went for forced slaughter and went to export, and they used what was meant to be in intensive breeding and exploitation. Unfortunately, it doesn't. When MPs from the ruling coalition explain the reasons why we do not have milk, they only mention two conditions. It's a monopolization of the market, which is evident and seen, it's our reality and the second is the reduction of the number of male cows. There are dozens of reasons. I'll just mention a few reasons, what the SRS' position is, what we've seen in that action that's the reason. So, in addition to the monopolization of the market, which is evident, the decreases in the number of male cows, there is a disastrous attitude of the government towards agriculture, and especially towards this area and the absence of strategy. The country that has these natural preconditions that we have, which has a working force that is trained, is 100 years of agricultural work, related to agriculture and food industries, educated labour. Well, invest, create conditions to help agriculture. We don't have a strategy. Now, the Ministry of Agriculture is coming out with some information, and here's the strategy finally coming up. Why haven't we had it so far, three, five years ago, etc. What are the further reasons for this poor situation in agriculture? Very small subsidies. We have the smallest subsidy right now in the region, probably in Europe, one and a half dinar, here's what with these funds is going to go a little bit more, etc. But you from the government were aware of that. The Minister of Agriculture had to break you, Mrs Dragutinovic, in terms of help. You have to raise the premiums. You must raise the premium, and that is the condition of all conditions of survival of this number of male cows, increasing and creating conditions for development. Furthermore, the absence of a serious policy to encourage the purchase of heifers and quality male cows, then, the absence of selection in breeding, further, the absence of serious credit policy. Our credit policy. Look, we've turned the peasants into a search engine, like we are from the economy, like we are from the state institutions, etc. Same terms, credit terms. Could that peasant, and those who go to the banks from the village, who traditionally engaged in cow and husband farming, be the same competitors and the same search engines as everyone else on the market? I can't. Without active policy, the agricultural credit policy is free of cultivation and we will not have a certain adequate amount of milk that will meet Serbia's market needs. Furthermore, as for modernising breeding facilities and equipment for the husband, we are also lagging far behind and we are most likely in the region at the very bottom. Furthermore, national care for the protection of herds and organised veterinary protection, we also do not have adequate veterinary protection, which would be a function of village and agriculture. Here you see, these are certain indicators of what our practice is. Mrs Dragutinovic, you can't until you put adequate resources into the subsidy system. Until we increase that by a few times, we can talk about the development of this and that. I know what that means from the point of view of balance positions right now, but there is no state, there is no survival of agriculture, there is no survival of all those in that branch. That's a condition. The Serbian Radical Party has been telling you that for years. The financial system of the Republic of Serbia has passed millions and billions of euros over the past ten years on various grounds. There was space and you had to create preconditions, 2008, 2009 and this year are a little harder, but for 2010 you see these days how the Chamber of Commerce and some other institutions, professional institutions that seek and require increased subsidies. If you don't step out, and step out means to pay as much as it was in 2010, we don't have agriculture, we don't have milk, we'll be importers. That's how it is with pig meat, that's how it is with beef, etc. etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47608	To Article 4. Split 11th, the amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. Here you go, Mr. Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47609	Madam Minister, if I hadn't stayed this late tonight, I wouldn't have learned one very important piece of information, which is the fact that I thought your associates were late tonight for the reason they're preparing the 2011 budget, and then a fellow in the ruling opposition assured me by explaining that MPs are preparing the budget for next year. So, really, one paradox, but it's out here, and I'm probably aware of the fact that here's a colleague from the ruling coalition who has to do law and budget preparation. But a joke aside, but it was really brought out tonight in an explanation, the Serbian Progressive Party has submitted an amendment to this division where classification is sought, means funds to increase the defence ministry's budget and there has probably been a debate on these matters in the government as well. Twenty years in Serbia does not lead to the modernisation of the military. We had no situation that as a state, we inherited a very strong defence force, modernised at that moment, the fourth power in Europe and the situation that after 20 years of not investing in the military we have one good fact and a situation, and you probably know it and you have followed it, that currently of all state and institutions is the greatest reputation and rating of Serbia's Army. This is information from some days ago from the public service and given that fact, then you should have kept up with that rating, and that is why we have submitted this amendment requesting an increase in funds to defend the Republic of Serbia, i.e. to invest in modernising and equipping the Republic of Serbia's Army. Why did Serbia's army ratings suddenly jump? Not because the situation is what it is, but because of the situation that we no longer have a mandatory military deadline and that unfortunately in Serbia, one of the many paid jobs is soldiers under contract. Then there is the jag for such jobs and given the fact that you are working in the state sector, if you are a soldier under contract, then there is also the conclusion with the Serbian Army rating and the situation that you have no safe receipts and payments when unfortunately in Serbia there is no economy and no investors and no new investments. So the inability to hire and situation of new jobs in this defence portfolio has led to the situation of increasing the ratings, that is, the reputation of the Republic of Serbia's Army. I can't go beyond the fact that in the past 15 years, which is political, and that's very pointless and for no reason whatsoever, let's say the people of life that I am in, my generation, already 50% of the various classes of that generation are retired. So people in their 40s, officers who have nothing to do with politics, senior officers, retired, probably because of the creation of a new army, and we're not unfortunately close to creating a new and modern army. What is particularly annoying, about the explanation of individual amendments, not specifically this one, but part of the amendment, which is to call for the practice of modern states. We are constantly referring to the practice of modern states. Why don't we take a step and we'll be close to modern states? Why, for example, in serious and modern states, we have a situation that today's budgets have been adopted. And we're adopting budget rebalancing, and that's inconclusive and you as a representative of the government and the entire government, in a situation where the 2011 budget was almost to be adopted, we're discussing the 2010 budget. Then, when you break with certain MPs, during the afternoon and afternoon, you talk about breaking the law, the Constitution, and you, the whole government, is still breaking parts of the Budgetary System and the Constitution Act. After all, if this country, which has inherited the continuity of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, sometimes well, sometimes unfortunately, has money for a pension to one president, former SFRJ President Stipe Mesic, has money for such a large budget exemption, which is exclusively for the defence of the Republic of Serbia and for the modernisation of Serbia's Army.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47610	To Article 4. Split of the 12th and 61st amendments was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Ambassador Dragan Stevanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47611	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Madam Minister, my colleague Nemanja Sarovic, as someone who knows the opportunities in the Belgrade city budget, submitted an amendment asking that 500 million dinars of funds, which you have defined to pay compensation for the use of construction land, be transferred to position and spent as transfers to local self-government. We have criticised it in principle, and we believe that one of the biggest failures of this rebalancing is fact and determination that two billion and six million dinars, whether it will be cumulative, but in any case for the next two months by the end of the year, if there are so many, you want to pump into the Belgrade City Building Land Directorate. This story of mine is not politics. I don't even want to believe that they cheated on you when they imposed a need like this on you. But this is not a fiscal or economic decision, this is a political decision. I'm firmly convinced of that. Whether you willingly or reluctantly agreed to it, the outcome for Serbia and for its budget is the same for every citizen. Simply, the proportion is devastating – 2.6 billion in the Belgrade City Directorate, and only a billion for all municipalities in Serbia. Out of that billion, 500 million will be divided into all municipalities, including Belgrade 17. This is not our relationship with Belgrade, and we have nothing against Belgrade being a metropolis and Belgrade being a city that will represent the state in an adequate manner. But today you have read the Constitution that speaks of even regional development, and at least in this context, the funds that will represent the transfer funds to local self-government could be increased. Two questions arise – did the state plan its budget well at first? We have evidence that you didn't. Mrs Dragutinovic, in this rebalancing, you have removed 900 million dinars from your ministry's position. Am I right? A little bit more, but for buildings and construction facilities. This is Mr Krasic's amendment, which we asked by adopting this budget to remove 780 million from that position. Why didn't you do it in December last year, and now it is? What did you know then, and now you didn't? What could you not accept then, and now it is? The budget isn't well-planned enough. Perhaps some of the needs of certain political partners in your government couldn't have been predicted then, so they put you in the position you are in. It's really pointless and it's the biggest absurdity of this rebalance that you're pushing 2.6 billion into the city of Belgrade. We are convinced that these are the funds that are being prepared for political promotion. There are no institutions through which budgets are better abused and used for political promotion. We didn't take off the funds that would be used to settle the debt to the heat, and that's not abstract. Someone's spent something and you've put them in a position where they're irresponsible and not paying their bills. What kind of message did you send to the citizens? Or are those the manners of 1996-1997 when you invited citizens to non-discipline, not to pay? You're in power now, and you can't act so irresponsiblely. Now the state needs to settle its obligations, so that you have an argument and freedom to ask citizens for the same thing. We asked for funds to be removed from this rebalancing facility to pay for what was spent materially. This is pure abstraction. Be careful what you wrote in your explanation – also by paying the debt on the basis of the fee for the use of the building land would ensure the write-off of interest on the basis of that fee, in accordance with the decision on the write-off of interest, etc. Madam Minister, the city of Belgrade has not allowed you to write off interest on these debts. You gave this opportunity to this congregation. Am I right? The law has been passed here, the DS amendment has been accepted, to give opportunity to urban municipalities, or congregations to write off interest. Was the projection of this project with 2.6 billion dinars already planned? Was it all strategically constructed and made? They didn't give you anything. Madam Minister, you're like a government in a position to make them write these debts off for you. You're in a position to create conditions for yourself to pay them this through reprogrammes, through debts of five or ten years, but to take from the budget, which is hollow as a sieve, and to give them and go out on their unreasonable political request to meet and give 2.6 billion, push and pump into the Building Land Directorate, we can't understand that. On the other hand, that's what I was talking about, and in principle, you have municipalities that the state owes to who knows how much. I'm not saying that they spend their money rationally, but there's again control of the mechanism in your hands and we can talk to you about problems in the municipalities, but obviously there's no definition that the state is dealing with that and that sort of thing. We invite you to consider this carefully, to reconsider. There's a lot of money thrown through this rebalance when it comes to using construction land. We believe this is a political decision and will be used for the political promotion of the DS next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47612	To your MP group, Mr. Lapčević, I will now give you my word, there are five minutes and 30 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47613	I'm glad you keep a regular record of how much time we have left. For me, it is a frantic fact that this budget rebalance provides for 2.6 billion dinars to be transferred to the city of Belgrade to settle debts to the city's building land without being treated in the same way with other local self-governments. It is said here that these are debts due to the failure to pay the accounts of the republican authorities and that therefore the budget of the Republic of Serbia transfers to the city of Belgrade to write off interest on those debts. I ask you: are there debts on the same basis in other cities in Serbia, for example, in Nis, Novi Sad or Kragujevac? There are probably other republican authorities in some other cities, except Belgrade. Have you provided payment funds for city building land, heating, for any debts these republican authorities owe to other cities? You're not. How much longer is this Belgrade mother, and according to other stepmothers? How much more of that behavior? Then we wonder why there are some aspirations about independence, about some new provinces, about separatist aspirations in southeastern Serbia? What is this way to focus all the money collected throughout Serbia in Belgrade? We are pushing into development projects in Belgrade, all investments in Belgrade. We build bridges in Belgrade, we build subways in Belgrade. All credits for development projects are in Belgrade. What will the rest of Serbia do? We won't even pay the bills. However, we will pay only the city of Belgrade, but we will not pay municipalities and cities. It's pure insolence. It's pure insolence, Mrs Dragutinovic. I really can't believe that this is how you're going to behave and look at these papers, that you're not going to answer me for these remarks.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47614	On Article 4, the 14th Amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Đuric to Sections 14 and 17. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic to Sections 14 and 23. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Financial Committee shall be, on the basis of Article 157(6). Rules of Procedure, amendment to Article 4 of Sections 14 and 25. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic to section 4th and 28th. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47615	Dear Presidents, Madam Minister, Associates from the Ministry of Finance, gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, this amendment refers to the financing of the Ministry, in fact, to the corresponding funds of the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights of 55 million, and to the needs and functioning of national councils of national minorities. I must admit that on behalf of the SPS-JS parliamentary group, I have put up with such an amendment on a quick-hand basis, with a proposal to separate the 55 million from the part of the transfer funds. According to the Government, in this case, the assets in the transfers would be reduced by that amount to local self-government. Of course, I accept such an argument because in my views, I constantly stated the need to increase and respect those criteria for belonging to local self-government transfer funds. Now I'm doing a little depression, but it's very important to say it. I think the future government would have to take much more important measures, even in that area of creating a different tax policy, including selective ones, etc., and to a much greater extent to increase transfers and inventions and other opportunities to encourage the undeveloped east of Serbia, the undeveloped south, such as the Borski District, Braničevski, Pcinjski, Jablanski County, etc. If we continue to do so, I will have to say with some degree of criticism, the policy of regional development in the spirit that we do it shyly or not enough, etc., without some major and larger changes and steps in this direction, this economic decomposition will be so much so that one moment we will really have desert areas in the south, east and some other parts of Serbia. We need to understand that and we need teamwork, comprehensively and strategically to approach that goal. Otherwise, we will have in 10-20 years a huge Belgrade, which is dysfunctional, also divided by what is the possibility and way of life of people in it, and on the other hand, the state territory that is abandoned. That's why I accept this argument. To go back to this now that it might not be best, and I said, on a quick hand, I suggested it, but I think you had to take care of this budget rebalancing function that is needed from the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights to exercise the rights of national councils of national minorities. I'll be using the MP's time for a little while longer. Allow me, Your Honor, to do so. In fact, national council elections were held on June 6th, and after these elections, we in Serbia have four new national councils. This is the National Council of the Albanian National Minority, the National Council of the Askalia National Minority, the National Council of the Slovenian National Minority and the National Council of the Czech National Minority. Also, the principles of budget allocation differ from the pre-election period, so that the resources to finance national minority councils by the end of 2010 must be adjusted, i.e. must be increased, more specifically, in accordance with the Regulation on the allocation of funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget for the work of national councils of national minorities. Any other action, if this is not taken into account, Madam Minister, we are in violation of the National Minority Council Act, which was somewhat brought in accordance with the Constitution here in the National Assembly. So we as the National Assembly must respect the laws, as well as the Government. I believe, given that a good proposal has not been made for this amendment, in terms of excluding that 55 million from the right place, I have explained why I agree with your view that these funds should not be touched because they go in favour of local self-government. I also appeal, as chairman of the Committee on International Relations in the National Assembly, that you replace these funds from the budget reserve, if there is no other way, in order to comply with the law and that all 20 national councils will achieve what the country's positive normative acts guarantee them, thereby achieving the rights of individuals and all groups of national minorities in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47616	On Article 4, the 15th Amendment was submitted by MP Otto Kishmarton. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the 16th Amendment, MP Zeljko Tomic submitted. Here you go, Mr. Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47617	Dear Madam Prime Minister, dear fellow Members of the People, I have submitted an amendment to reduce the cost of travel from 10.5 million dinars to 5 million dinars in article 4, section 16, chapter 167, section 420. Most of all, I am talking about the citizens of Serbia, who I hope are watching video of this part of the parliament session, that it is about the Agrarian Payments Authority. Given the part-time work of the Agrarian Payments Authority, the excessive focus on domestic users of their services, it is really difficult to see justification through the rebalancing of the estimated travel costs of 10.5 million dinars. I'd like to hear Mrs Dragutinovic, which is why these costs are this big. These amounts especially seem unrealistic when it comes to the cost of travel by other administrations of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management not crossing three million dinars? What makes it the Agrarian Payments Authority specific to obtain this amount of travel-only funds? This reminds me of what counterpart Nenad Popovic said, that it is dedicated, typical, for someone or something. Just like the film industry got more than literature, more than art, more museums all together. I have my doubts, and I can also prove that it's because of the directors, the regime directors, because I don't know how to baptize them differently, that they're going to get to make movies, so here I think that this is exactly the way this administration is rewarded, and we want to warn this, or we're suggesting that something more than 50% to cut this down. It is also symptomatic and will remain remembered that of the 58 amendments that have been submitted you have not accepted any. Do you think that they are independent, that they are not constructive or anything else, and how it is possible and what kind of message it is to the opposition, and even to the citizens of Serbia who are looking at an up-to-date government that thinks and is convinced that the best it can do, as well as probably every government in the world, is that our people live how they live, and you think you are all-powerful, that you are the smartest, that you are the best, and the refrigerators in Serbia are empty, banknotes in Serbia. It's impossible that you haven't heard from any of the 58 amendments. As for agriculture itself, I will remind you that the government of Vojislav Kostunica was the first to do what it did, the agrarian budget increased 3.5 times, and the subsidies for agriculture, compared to the budget, in 2008 were 2%, in 2009, 2.2% and 2.6% in 2010. The government of Vojislav Kostunica has allocated subsidies, compared to the budget, compared to 5%. That's almost now, in fact, twice what you predicted for this year, and you're talking, not you, but the entire government, especially the Minister of Agriculture, that agriculture is the strongest branch of the Serbian state's economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47618	On Article 4th, 16 amendments were submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojić Markovic to section 4 and 17 of the amendments. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic to section 4, sections 16, 17 and 19. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4th of the 17th Amendment was submitted by MP Jorgovanka Tabaković. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 17th Amendment was submitted to article 4 of the amendments by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47619	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the reason for this amendment is because the position of the SRS is that it is high time for the Government of the Republic of Serbia to stop investing in Fiat to treat investment as of particular importance, because there has indeed been a lot of investment. The majority owner has 67% stakes, while the government has 33% and has already done a lot for the majority owner, so much so that the car sales insurance Fiat presented as a way out of the crisis and, of course, put the charge on the list for subsidized interest from the republican budget. This rebalancing identifies an additional billion and 383 million dinars of economic classification 621 and lists what all these funds will be used for. We of the SRS have proposed an amendment to use a billion dinars for other purposes, not for Fiat. We have proposed that a billion dinars be used for subsidies to greenfield investments, which are otherwise defined by two billion and 214 million, and we thought that another billion dinars would be of great benefit, because some investors believe that such investments are more cost-effective economically or that the nature of business is such as to require the construction of a new foundation facility. I will briefly mention Fiat, a few days after the announcement when two new models of Fiat could be produced in Serbia – the idea and chain of museums, because there were problems with unions in Italy, while in Kragujevac there could be a smooth and safe production and then there were violent reactions from the Italian government. Roberto Kalderoli, a minister in the Italian government, said the following -- cannot sit at the table and eat with the help of the state, and then get up and not pay the bill, Kalderoli said, referring to the aid the Italian state provided to Fiat after the economic crisis broke out in 2008. At the expense of Fiat, accusations have been made that as a private company, it often uses state aid and gives little in return. There's a joke in Italy that if the state calculated all the help it was giving to the Torin company, it could buy Fiat several times by now. This says a lot in favour of the amendments we have submitted and in the justification of our request to be accepted. To return to now little investment, statistics for 2009 say that among the Balkan countries that are not the EU's most direct foreign investment last year went to Croatia 2.1 billion euros, Serbia a billion and 300m euros, and Montenegro slightly less than 1.06 billion euros, although it is ten times smaller than Serbia's population. One of the causes of Serbia's poor rating is the business environment, i.e. a big difference between the government's good intentions and the real results. Here's how some potential investors assess the situation in Serbia. The reason is not about government policy, but about the structure of society, where 80% of the economy is in the hands of a dozen tycoons. It's nice to have special programmes to attract investors, but first it's the rule of law and judicial protection, which is something that's easier to talk about than to do. It is easier to make tax breaks easier than to improve the legal system, explained Gavin Ryan, a partner in the World Europe Capital Management investment company. That low prices and taxes aren't enough are confirmed in Henkel. Serbia is favourable, both because of the income tax and the income tax on citizens, so because of the credit for investing and encouraging special funds for new employees. However, the business environment would have been better if it had been better infrastructure and administration simpler, the company's director said. It's a picture of Serbia seen in the eyes of investors. I will end up with a brief reference to Mrs. Minister's words during the debate on the principle of budgets. You said then, Madam Minister, that the government must pay the police, professors, doctors, that it must pay for pensions, disability, child benefits, and that is undeniable. No one has disputed that with a single word, on the contrary. What we will always argue is that this really looks like a waste of state money for the work of non-constitutional authorities, and here I mean agencies and similar organs. We will never agree with that, and you will never stop setting up the same sessions at every session of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47620	Members of the 4th section of the 17th Amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4, 21 amendments were submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47621	Honorable presidents, respected ministers, as you declared at the end of the debate yesterday for pensions and all other donations, including disability, that there must be money, or that these are rights that must be respected. Of course, this amendment, which has been submitted, has been tried to find out that this year's budget will lack a certain amount of funds in terms of personal disability and the attempt of our MPs, our club as representatives of that population, to point out that there will be approximately 200 million dinars missing for 12 people with disabilities. It's about the means. I received a full report from the resolution ministry that they warned during the preparation of budget rebalances on the lack of funds and on some other rights relating to the legislation on a regulated basis, which is, above all, compensation, getting a passenger car for the most difficult categories of people with disabilities, and this is about 200 military people who are entitled to a national car. Since we have a legal problem right now, we don't have a national car cubicity of up to 1000 cubic metres, this right has been left for next year to amend and supplement the Law on Combat and Disabilities Protection, and therefore these people will get their right in the coming year. I ask the question of whether there will be money for disabled people, since it is the right and that disabled persons are the right to be harmonised every month for the growth of personal incomes, and in line with the growth of personal income, we believe that there will be about 200 million missing, perhaps a little less and in this respect we have submitted this amendment. We hope that these other positions where there are a little more resources allocated to social contributions will be able to find space, i.e. to allocate funds, and this category has its 12th disability during the year. The second thing, these days, I often hear from colleagues, mostly from southern Serbia, and they ask famous questions -- what about working group work, when it comes to compensation, those famous diaries, whether they are also covered by rebalancing. Of course not, but we can't put that problem under the carpet anymore, and we'll have to open it sooner or later. I believe that in the budget for next year we will somehow open up an attempt to solve this problem so that we don't have the situation we've had. The government is refusing this amendment. I will support the budget rebalance with my colleagues and that is inevitable, but I am leaving room for you to think until the vote itself, to see if there can be an opportunity for this category to be respected in a certain way, because it is only 150 to 200 million dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47622	Mr. Pejcic has a word, you have a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47623	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry the government didn't accept this amendment, I filed a similar amendment when the Budget Law was passed here last year. Even then, the government had no understanding for wartime military reservers from southern Serbia. I want to tell you because you said it yourself, this budget has a social component, 70% of these military reserves are just social cases, and the average salary down in southern Serbia is, let me tell you, 15,000 dinars. What the government needs to solve in the future, through the next budget or in some other way, is to solve it in one proper way. Whether it will be state records or otherwise, it's already your thing to solve this, but the problem of wartime military reservers in southern Serbia needs to be solved, there were 15 thousand of them, many of them leaving their lives in Kosovo, defending Kosovo. They expect this government, the so-called social responses, to help them, and I hope that in the future you will consider all their demands and that you will solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47624	National MP Zoran Krasic submitted to Section 4 of the 21st to 33rd. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47625	This amendment is a good example of simple citizens realizing that this government is not at all interested in people. This amendment and the government's position on this amendment just proves what we have been claiming for years. The government goes about like this and says -- we can't secure revenue to the budget, we have to go to borrowing. We're in debt, we're increasing public debt, and then we're talking about some percentages, some empty story, and then they say, "We're in a good position," because we're going to put everything into some new investment procedures. So corridor 10 goes, corridor X, corridor 11, corridor this corridor, corridor that, and then there goes the task so that one JAT plane has a left wing engine, because without two engines it can't fly, then there goes the story, etc. When someone reminds them that our people are having a hard time living, that there is an increase in the number of unemployed, that businesses are closing down, that internal debts are growing badly, then the government says -- but we are going to use budget funds to improve social protection. Then come on, let me test them out, see if they honestly think it, propose an amendment and ask 500 million to move towards the Ministry of Social Security, for social benefits, to improve the situation in socially endangered categories. Then the government answered and said, "Well, it can't go because it's going to settle the obligations of the Republic on the basis of city building land, based on heating, and then it starts again with Belgrade, then Belgrade capital, then Serbiagas, and so on, and so on." Then it's clear to you that they're not interested in citizens. They are interested in institutions, institutions must exist because the existence of these institutions is proof that we have met all the conditions required from Brussels. It doesn't matter what this institution is made up of, it doesn't matter who works there, it doesn't matter what he does. It is important that there are institutions, and as soon as there are institutions, then we caricate some EU standards and show what we are meeting, and then we get pluses, or we get a rebus questionnaire that came in yesterday, so now you're starting with cross-words to solve. Where are the people? You've just forgotten a little about people. The people in Belgrade had a chance to hear that, say, heating jumped 30% a month ago. What's the reason? He says, well, we have to, it has big debts, etc. So if you're covering these debts now, pay back the price. But no, it's just important that when the heating price increases in Belgrade, it's said by some clerk, some official or some journalist. It must not be said by Dragan Gilas, because he is in the campaign. His campaign for the past two years has been – bridge, kindergarten, home of health, containers, social protection institutions, during the day of four shootings, one with a suit, the other with a red tie, and then in sports equipment, because he must imitate the competition that is present within the party. Where are the people? Now, because of these people who justifiably criticise such redistribution, you believe both in Vlasotinc and in Crno Trava that their suburban settlement in Belgrade is very difficult to live on. It doesn't make any principleal difference. Why? Because mostly Serbia doesn't work. A lot of people lost their jobs. Every day, the number of unemployed in Serbia increases, and on my amendment to increase social contributions to citizens, the pro-European government heroically raises its voice and says -- no, Gilas comes first. To settle debts. Let me remind you, since this year reminds me a little bit of that year in 2003. In 2003, the Prime Minister was a man from the Nish DS. In 1996 or 1997, he urged the citizens of Nis to throw their electricity bills into a big storm. Now you've changed your tactics a little bit. You're counting on the fact that, by means of media coverage and the fact that this will probably be on the morning program in five hours, that you'll avoid the possibility of citizens finding out, and what would the citizens find out new that they don't already know? They know all this very well. Well, they talk about this in public, they don't tighten up anymore. They say they're simply, they've already gone beyond all possible measures. I'm glad you admit it here, you're not interested in citizens, you're not interested in social protection of citizens, you're not interested in the privatisation process, and in the other pro-European processes you've conducted here, you've kicked people out of the firm. It's illusory to tell you now that I'm giving you information about May 21st in Rakovica. Bought by some man from Subotica, had court rulings something should be returned, some money etc., all rightful etc. You know what he did? He simply went to the agency and reregistered the company and is now based in Bujanovac, no longer based in Rakovica. Do you know that? You don't care! It's people, it's statistics, it's numbers, don't bother with numbers. Or what does this guy who made for the police apartments mean to you? So then Homen takes the whole court case by law and goes back to retrial, so what do you care? These couples are supposed to pay off workers who've worked for years, make apartments for cops. But you don't care about that. It's not in the questionnaire, there's no number of living people in the questionnaire, there's a section in the questionnaire where you have to write down what's being fulfilled by some standards, how you got close. Thank you very much for this recognition of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47626	The People's MP Milet Poscurica submitted to the 4th Amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47627	Ladies and gentlemen, with this amendment, we wanted to divert a billion dinars from NIP's portfolio, to help the Ministry of Science, in that segment of specialized services, because here, in that place and from those positions, research activities are funded. We are witnessing attempts by the ministry to somehow go beyond 1% of gross national income in its funding. We're witnessing that the Ministry's survival and efforts to somehow expand, to create and unite scientific and research institutions, must take nine-and-a-half billion, half the cost of the loan. So in a very invisible place of science in Serbia. The fact that this contributes is certainly also a large amount of privatisation and the absence of the will of those who are now the owners of different once commercial entities who have sought applied research, that they have become uninterested because both production and profit and capital are not interested in the extent to which this was expected. In order not to run out of scientific staff, we think it is much more useful to turn aside the possibility that from the NIP projects, which are otherwise traded contractually according to the agreed agreement reached, or in the ministry run by Dinkic, or in the structures that run its political party, say for employment, etc., with some loans, some new jobs that are supposed to be used to photograph and promote the political party. They're not real jobs. Serbian citizens no longer believe that. They're taking pictures. We don't know what's behind it, but we know scientists suffer for money. They've had something to do with this proposal, even the funds for the salaries have been cut. So they're in a very bad position, and this is an opportunity to help, and only to get out of that difficult and true attempt to improve the social system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47628	The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Mijatovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the 23rd Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47629	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment refers to division, which is the Environment Protection Fund within the Environment Protection Agency. This amendment of mine is in line with my colleague Mitsa Rogovic's amendment, so, the Ministry of Defence, and he explained the reasons for rerouting these funds to the Ministry of Defence, so I wouldn't go into it. In addition, as SNS, we have submitted several amendments relating to various agencies and funds, which we have criticised in the past budget, and at this time of crisis, we believe that these funds and various agencies, which some of the European countries are abolishing at this time of crisis, are actually increasing public spending and thus making the budget more difficult and this growth in public spending cannot bear this budget. That's obvious. In the last two months, when we discussed some new laws in the previous session, we see that the government continues with the new laws to establish some new agencies and administrations and defines the funds for it. So, not only our party's appeal, but also other opposition parties, is that, and we point out, but unsuccessfully, various agencies and funds at this time are unnecessary, because this public spending is needed, which is also in line with the requirements of the international community, to reduce and raise awareness to normal frameworks. In the end, what do you say? We are considering the end of November budget rebalancing. The budget rebalancing which actually means that some funds have been spent, that someone has made a decision on setting some priorities, and now as a Assembly, we need to verify these spent funds, or in some way give legal coverage. And those priorities that he set, nor do we know in which order, are likely to be the settlement of various party interests of the coalition. However, it should have been done in good time. So this adoption of the budget rebalancing is, in fact, to put an over what was spent in the first phase, and who spent and how he set priorities, I repeat, we don't know, so now in the next day we're going to go to the budget for the next year, which most of the serious countries have long brought or are in debate for its adoption. We think that this budget rebalance should have been brought much earlier and probably asked the Assembly how and where to reroute those funds, in some vision in this economic crisis of the government that individual segments will function at this time. As SNS, we certainly won't support this budget rebalance, for the reasons my colleagues have explained through their amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47630	On Article 4th of the 24th Amendment, MP Susana Grubjesic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olena Papuga to Article 4 of Sections 28 and 29 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 29th Amendment was submitted to Article 4 by MP Sasa Maksimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to article 4 by MP Dragan Colic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the 38th Amendment, MP Gojko Radic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4th of the amendment, MP Zoran Babic submitted. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47631	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, this amendment refers to the withdrawal of the funds needed to fund the Energy Efficiency Agency worth 16 million dinars. The fact is that there are both political and economic and environmental reasons that suggest that Serbia is developing new energy sources and energy efficiency. The improvement of energy efficiency, on the other hand, is one of the essential preconditions for Serbia to join the family of European peoples and become an EU member. Most of the developed countries of the world's rational energy consumption systemically began to deal with long ago in 1973, at the time of the first oil crisis, while only a few years ago came from the dead, and our hands on the heart, and this led us to the global economic crisis. That energy efficiency is not just one of many sectoral policies, but that it is one socio-economic project and concept with a very positive goal, says the fact that applying the energy efficiency measure in this small industry operating in Serbia could save almost $70m annually on spent energy. What is the situation in Serbia today? Energy efficiency shall be measured by energy intensity or specific energy consumption per unit of newly created value. Serbia is lagging behind developed European countries in the field, but it is also lagging behind countries in the environment. So Serbia currently has an energy efficiency index of 0.8, BiH 0.6, Croatia 0.45, Romania 0.4, Slovenia and the Czech Republic at 0.3, while one developed Germany is at 0.17. From all of this, it can be concluded that it is necessary for the indicator of Serbia's energy intensity to be reduced in order for the economy to become more competitive, the standard of living for Serbian citizens to increase and the environment to be cleaner. The Agency for Energy Efficiency, whose business costs 16 million dinars per year for citizens of Serbia, brings its mission down to education, development of a feasibility study and the realization of demonstration projects. Obviously, Madam Minister, it is by these results, the comparative results that I have been telling you about, not enough, because almost all aspects of energy efficiency, Serbia lags behind the EU countries even up to five times. In order for Serbia to do anything in the area of energy efficiency, we need to create a favourable environment for improving energy efficiency through subsidies, new forms of funding, public and private sector partnerships projects, and the introduction of a savings funding model. It is precisely this model of savings financing that the SNS proposes to finance the Energy Efficiency Agency, but also to finance other government agencies. Save at least a fraction of the $70m that lies in the Serbian industry, so you can finance the Agency for Energy Efficiency, not as provided for in the 2010 Amendments and Supplements Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47632	On Article 4th, the 56th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47633	This is a follow-up story from earlier. I say once again, the SRS wanted to transfer the funds that you had allocated to the Belgrade City Directorate to some smarter and more useful things. What I'm reporting for is that what's written in the explanation doesn't stand. It is said here that the amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposed reduction in the amount of funds in that section of the Republic Authority's Joint Affairs Administration would call into question the settlement of obligations for electricity costs, central heating, business space, fixed and mobile telephony costs, postal francs for all republican organisations, etc. So this is the first part of the answer that doesn't stand and is controversial. We have very clearly removed 700 million from this position, just as much as it says in the budget that you have intended to settle obligations based on the compensation for the use of building land. So, just before I said, all the costs of material character we didn't touch and touch, not because of the government of the Republic of Serbia, not because of you, but because of the users the government owes. Unresponsible behavior, non-payment, debts have accumulated. We also think it's not rational to waste so much money for something that can be an abuse. What is another problem, which we did not mention, these are debts until 31 December 2009. So this debt hasn't been entered in 2010 and that's the government's irresponsibility. Maybe even the government before that, it doesn't matter, it doesn't interest us after all, and at this point, from this sieve, I repeat, there's a huge amount of money out there for nothing. One more thing interests me, Madam Minister, how is it possible that the amendment could not be accepted for the reasons that these expenditures over the past year have already been carried out almost entirely? How could you pay for something if you didn't have money in your positions? So, with this rebalance, we're, at the end of the day, even right when we say that expenditures that have been spent and squandered are just verified and that we're essentially discussing money that is fictional and that is not really there. That's the problem, and that's something that doesn't guarantee perspective. How is that possible? It is possible because for years now, who knows how many years after the adoption of the VAT law, Mrs Dragutinovic, these are the fiscal accounts that we get in the city centres and in the centres of large cities, in the light of the inspection and all state, control bodies.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47634	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go, Mr. Lapcitza.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47635	I have proposed an amendment to Article 5 which regulates the allocation of funds for local self-government. You, after removing a huge amount of money for transfers of local self-government, have set aside a billion dinars to increase transfers to local self-government, 500 million dinars to all local self-governments, and 500 million dinars to those local self-governments where budget implementation is lower. Tell me, in which municipalities isn't the realisation smaller? By coming to power in all municipalities in the entire country, the economic activity stopped, budgeting is getting smaller and smaller, and borrowings are increasing and higher. I suggested that money be saved on certain items that are clean consumption, related to contract services, travel costs and other necessary things within the ministries and that all money be transferred to the transfer point to local self-government and that most of the money be transferred to those who are the poorest. So, some two billion and 800 million dinars would go to the poorest municipalities, first of all, they come from the south and east of Serbia, and that would be a significant incentive for these municipalities to patch up some of the gaps in the budget and maybe go into some investments, so as not to improve the conditions for their fellow citizens' lives, and thus encourage them to stay in those areas, not to move on. The rest of the funds were intended for those in a middle category, etc. The point of the story is that local self-government is being relocated, and in this way through increased giving, not to make marketing out of singleing out a billion dinars, so that we all share two, three million, five, but that really local self-governments that are most affected by the reduction of the transfer and the crisis that has obviously affected all get those funds and try to make something in their environments.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47636	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Pavlovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Mr. Pejcic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47637	My amendment and Mr. Lapčević are similar amendments, compatible amendments. Otherwise, when it comes to funds for local self-government granted by the government, I think it is hypocritical of the government of the Republic of Serbia to give a billion dinars for all local self-government, by noting the circumstances and repeating that 15 billion were taken from transfers to the same local self-governments. In discussions and in principle, I was saying that my town of Leskovac, where I come from, lost 140 million from the budget, and now it's going to get about 9 to 10 million from these percentages, which is how little it is. Otherwise, to stay in other municipalities in Jablanic County, these are the poorest municipalities. I guess they're all devastated. They will, for example, get the case, and Lebane, who lost 12 million in the transfer, will get hundreds of thousands, as well as Bojnik, who lost nine million in the transfer, will also get hundreds of thousands, and so little for those local self-governments. Here, Mr. Milivojevic associated me, I'm sorry, I didn't want to call him, to tell you, when it comes to these poor municipalities, in Leskovec they pay eight months late. Your mayor has left 340 million debt to Leskovec citizens. Otherwise, Leskovci citizens pay the biggest spider tax, which is 15,000 dinars, while Belgrade's citizens pay 5,000 dinars, the citizens of Nis 7,000 dinars. Our local self-government has these resources, which we inherited from our children, and they need to be returned again, so that they exploit it, sold out for good reason. We expect you, Madam Minister, to accept all of our amendments, because you said one thing at the beginning, when you came here to the Assembly, you weren't just before when I spoke to you, with prejudice, when you told us about some law that you would convince all MPs to accept your laws, at first, you have such prejudice and such desire. Here, your wish can come true. Accept the DSS amendments and we will vote for you and your budget rebalance, believe me.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47638	The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were submitted by MPs Zeljko Tomic and Milan Lapčević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for an Amendment on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Banks (individuals) You have received amendments submitted at the proposal of the Law by MPs Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borisa Peljević, Mileta Posurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Stevanovic, Dragan Krasic, Boris Krasić, Boris Mirić, Miletavić, Milat Bja, Vladan Jerić, Vladijan Jerjić, Liđan Pajić and Paštić Paštić. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47639	We of the SRS are the great opponents of this new concept that they can form banks, that they can be formed by whoever they want, whenever they want, without any responsibility, with the excuse to put out a fire that hasn't yet occurred, because that's how this explanation of your response and your opinion on the amendment works. A bank for special purposes -- founder of agencies, and it is formed in case a bank is withdrawn from the National Bank of Serbia. Now I remind you of everything you've spoken publicly since 2001-2002, that you've arranged the banking system, that you've shut down bad banks, that all banks are good. We've got 33, I guess it's eight with domestic capital. That big majority, that's foreign banks. I remember Raiffeisen Bank was provided with some founding capital, some funds from abroad. The funds were in the account for about two or three months, then 10 million were returned to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and 15 million were returned to Sarajevo, where someone loaned that money. In the first year, foreign banks managed to increase their capital, to form practically their own capital. We have banks that base their credit potential on citizens' deposits, and a large number of these banks with foreign names all of their activities are based on funds coming from abroad, from their parent banks that are in charge of the interbank market abroad under more favourable conditions, which were able to take cheap funds to place here. There was an undeveloped real estate market here. Real estate was not as burdened with mortgages or loans as it is abroad. There was a great will in the population to drive new cars, to have new furniture, new refrigerators, to have children take vacations, etc. When all this blows up, then we get into a situation where that same government tells us, but you know, there's a danger of breaking banks and breaking the banking system, because one at a time a bank in Western Europe comes into big trouble. It started a few years ago with a Dutch bank, and then when you look at the balance sheets of all these banks abroad, then you see that there are also these Hippos that have acquired huge funds trading and weapons through Austria with Slovenia and Croatia, and then there's this Hippo that's over-indebted here, so we have a few more that because of some investments related to the University went into heavy dubiosis and we have 13 banks that deal with huge losses. Of course, it's all turning into gullible citizens. Not to spread this subject, there are several regulations that regulate the banking system. It's not just the bank law, there's the agency law, there's the deposit insurance law. It all makes one whole. Now that they're shaking their pants in Western Europe because of the announced problems with the banking system, then ours are starting to think about how to warn them, and then they're brilliantly aware that the agency can create a bank of special purpose, which in the event of a major crisis with a bank, and it would certainly come out if the license was taken away, they could serve it towards the depositors, primarily citizens, businesses and it's all missed. We have one Deposit Insurance Agency that can't get out of the dubiosis. She cannot complete bankruptcy proceedings against those banks where the bankruptcy proceedings are opened because the agency is doing business as a bankruptcy manager. So she can't finish her job. Then the question is inevitably raised - and what about the control function of the National Bank of Serbia? We know that the control function of the National Bank of Serbia was selective, so "Metals Bank" had an announcement of liquidity problems, but it served to introduce temporary measures. A temporary manager came in, then the Autonomous Province increased its deposit at the Metals Bank, and now it's the Vojvodine Development Bank. Now you tell me where there's a way out of this circle? So, an extremely good banking system, which survived all possible uncertainty in 2007 and 2008, a financial system that is said to be extremely stable, banks are successfully operating, amounts to capital abroad based on some Vienna agreement that no one has seen, and reportedly, under the Vienna Agreement, guarantee that it will have the same level of credit activity in 2009 and 2010, with the National Bank and the Government guaranteeing the same profit that it was during 2008. Then why are you passing this law? Why are you resorting to solutions like this? Will this solve the problem if these banks disappear from our market? They won't, you know, or maybe it's a whole operation to cover their tracks. Mrs. Djukić Dejanović, you received one letter, and I asked for that letter and you sent it to me. Here's where the money is - in Cyprus. Here's a protocol in English signed by someone. Do you know that this firm, Moby 063, is listed in the register, but there's no documentation? Do you know who had to file it? The government of the Republic of Serbia. So there's no estimate of the capital, there's no record of what's been done. You know, you don't need any financial crisis. You who are in power alone are enough, you create problems yourself, you solve problems yourself, and we're constantly getting into some dubious things that we can get out of. How do you ask for support for a bill like this? When I asked you on the Finance Committee how this is possible, how the agency can form a bank, you think it's enough to just write a law and write the first member of "The Agency can build a bank" and it can make banks. That's not enough. There are bank founders, there are bank depositors, there's something. Life happened before some governor said I'd withdraw my license. And now in the existing law, when the Agency's license is withdrawn, it ends its part of the job if it has to go bankrupt or if it goes into liquidation. The settlement of the obligation to the depositors and now it's regulated. And now there are provisions to transfer funds from that bank to another bank that the agency determines to finish that part of the deal. But no, you want special banks. You want to turn all the dubiosis into something that would be an obligation of the state, and you don't want to narrow down the accounts as to how it happened. What did the bankers do so they got into a situation where their license had to be taken away? I will not enter the grounds because the law is prescribed when a license is withdrawn. Today it's possible to do everything, now you see it, now you don't see it, or maybe it's some kind of pressure because of that cocaine and the fact that some of the money's been washed up, so you need to cover your tracks. I'm more doubtful that this is the second one, that there are clues to cover up so it doesn't show where the funds probably went to all the citizens. Remember, no trace can hide. You saw what it was like with those banks in Cyprus and that money. The first delegation, led by Dinkic, went by the second delegation run by Batic, went by the third delegation run by Velja Ilic, and Zoran Djindjic got involved. When a journalist asked him what happened to the money, he said – I don't know, ask Dinkic, he was there. The whole result – 78 boxes with orders 10-54 has been transferred. Now that Lalevic's grip is on him, you know Mrs Dragutinovic, when Soskovic came, he wants to clear these Jelasics up, because he has doubts that big money has been laundered. He went to the foreign bank's representative here and when Batic and Djordjevic pressed him for the money, since Lalic was included in the road to Cyprus, in 2007, the National Bank of Serbia delivered an official response, and he said this is strictly confidential, and this is covered by criminal charges, criminal charges and applications for economic crimes. No one answered. And then from time to time, probably some tycoon who can't stand the racket raises his voice and gets an immediate response from the government -- we'll see who's making money on exotic islands, we'll see this, we'll see this, we'll run this, we'll stop what... So who runs this country? How is that possible? Some times in a joke, but also in a big way, I say to all of you from DOS – you're all right, and you're right, and you're right in 2001, and you're in 2003, and you're in 2008 and 2010. When you talk about each other, you're right. How can I not support Batic when he attacks Dinkic, how can I not support Dinkic when he attacks someone else? You remember the FIA was here, what wasn't happening, so Walt. Guys, do you realize that there are groups of people who run press-clipping? Press-clipping is about every person, every event, and it just settles down and turns out to be a book. It's all written. No one has caught you, but you yourself have spoken in the heat of a political struggle, in the heat of security of some of your own interests. You tell it all and I put it together. Some people know. This much documentation, and when I need 256 pages, I quote 375 pages to you, and you're jumping and you're replicating me. Now I've given you a secret. There's nothing I made up. I'm just quoting what you said in different aggregate states. Now you're convincing us with this bill of law that he can put out a fire that hasn't reportedly broken out yet. It's something amazing. As a government official comes to this set of laws or similar laws, every remark is nodded, smiles, not so, but after six months, that same government official who smiled comes with the attitude and repeats the views of the SRS. I keep telling you there's a press-clipping for each of you. He's piling up. So what you did during the day, what the media published, where you were visiting, what you said, who you argued with and what you argued about, what you mentioned, what you accused each other. It's all about history and need when it's about getting something out. I hope those who watch this delayed video don't matter what time, they'll see what this hall looks like here, and they'll see that it just seems pointless for a dozen of us to be here talking about this in small hours. Believe me, this isn't pointless. Based on this picture, people who insist on representing their ideologies and political views will understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47640	A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Mrs. Tabakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47641	Believe me, I don't know where to start. The purpose of this session and these sessions with twelve agenda points for me is in five points that are connected, which you do not seem to expect us to be able to complete this quickly just for three. I think this is the essence of this agenda because the rebalancing was a simple over the already spent money. Shame on the congregation, which has appeared as an advertiser this time, not as someone who approves of spending money. You questioned the legal authority of the Assembly. If in one of the five laws, which I consider crucial, which we will talk about no matter how late the hours are, the sentence states that the notes of an officer, or the obligor on the prevention of money laundering, are made and kept for 10 years, I ask, but I don't believe that they can answer me from professional services, how long have the stenograms of this building that we're talking about at this deaf age without television transmission, or maybe at four or five in the morning? Does the assistant or deputy secretary know to tell me – how long are the stenographic notes kept? No, they're probably thinking about whether to pay the employees a taxi ride when we work after ten. Madam Minister, you and I will probably prepare for tomorrow the obligations we have to discuss some tax reform and continue to deal with this country's problems, but those who don't care about this don't even know how to answer questions like this. Thank you for sitting and listening and not leaving someone else behind. I really think not three points that have managed to prepare quickly as work material but all of these five that are the essence of this agenda. I'd like you to tell me in that closing statement - what's the reason for the urgency? I know there's a reason for the night that you can't hear and see what we're doing at the moment when we really have social problems and gaps in the budget. To tell me – what does that PFPDL 3 (PBG) mean, and that is the transparency of the explanation and it has done a lot in terms of budget, but here in four out of five of these laws, it says that the reason for the adoption of the law under the emergency procedure of the World Bank is to protect the banking system, i.e. pre-warning financial stability, and I have not been able to explain what it means. I have a banking experience pretty much, and whenever we wanted to confuse someone who wanted to get involved in banking business, we knew how to say it – that's what 476-inter relations are and those who don't even know how to ask. As recently since a vault account was introduced since 2001, so they say – you know, it goes through KRT and then people can't even ask what KRT is, but it's time that there are no secrets anymore. It's time for people today to be able to ask everything and have some of them run out of answers and you don't have the right explanation why you're doing this, but to me, and if God himself wrote this, provide cover for greed. On my own behalf and on behalf of my children and those whom I represent, I would say to you – this state of Serbia does not have the means to cover anyone's greed. Iolae honorary and professional economists say that we are in a global crisis because of the greed of bankers, not as they justify themselves on television, traditional banking, but investment banking has led us into greed and profit that can't be provided in regular business, so we've been blowing up balances, stocks, activity, and we've come as far as we've come. Whatever the reason, from the budget of Serbia that has a deficit at this point of 120 billion, the one you say will have a deficit next year of 140 billion dinars, for a debt of 11.49 billion euros, how much public debt do you and we together, 30 billion just interest that we pay on these debts, where do we get money to secure the security of the deposits of those who came here and finely collect all the diamonds from the financial market of this state of Serbia in a ruined domestic banking system? We call it the bloodstream, the Americans call it the spine of the economy. The spine you broke for us, the blood flow that is exhausted today came to be the subject because such a way that by law on banks can be established by a temporary bank for special purposes and apparently by the reputation of that fantastic invention of bankruptcy in the real sector, which Mr. Luka Andric came up with for Dinkic. I'm asking you, what genius mind did this come up with, and what bank do you already see as a test balloon?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47642	Let me tell you that you've wasted group time. You can speak within the time of the authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47643	I've got 15 minutes left. Okay. Which you have already seen for the shooting, as a test balloon, when the National Bank, whose control role you are entering by this law, intertwined jurisdiction, and an early warning system, and discretionary rights to withdraw permits and deadlines for appeal, because everything by court is, without deadlines for appeal, with the introduction of bankruptcy and liquidation into banks within three days, with solutions that are final at the time of adoption. I'm just curious about who's been drawn here, and I don't know, because I don't get the information from the Secret Service, and I don't get a tip from anyone, and I only read your materials, your official messengers, and what I can see in the press. I see there's a lot in these four laws of failure that you've made the moment of the establishment of the Vojvodina Development Bank. A lot of failures and illegalities in the procedures conducted by the National Bank towards that bank have now tried to curtail itself here. But from where someone's right, three in the morning, four, I don't care that this man who runs the Deposit Insurance Agency and who you cook for the public, it's called cooking the frog, cooking the public by preparing one of these interviews that gets the right to decide on the banking system in the way that the Deposit Insurance Act, the Bank's bankruptcy and liquidation Act, the Deposit Insurance Act, and a little bit of this money laundering system, you came up with to give authority to this man that he assesss the risk, that you, the Ministry of Finance and the NBS assess what a system bank is. Yes, yes, you will evaluate and negotiate what a system bank, whose instability can produce negative effects on the entire financial system. The level of the risk premium will also be resolutely determined. Is there a place, Mrs. Diana? It doesn't exist. You, in your arguments, say there is no obligation in any directive to do this. But you say -- the central European bank has something that can serve us as the basis for doing this. If there is anywhere that anyone can go to secure a vehicle, or buy a product, they will say – for you, tax, premium, insurance or anything special, as I, like some god, Milorad Jambić, will decide. Yeah, that's what the law says, so he can set his own premium. A man who says dead banks spend as much as they do alive. Four large banks, of which you still haven't tracked down deposits and cash in foreign exchanges. Banks for which, I must mention the late and respected Borka Vukic, we once negotiated independently who is where, how to force the state because it's the state's interest to make you make these deposits a development bank. Half of the charged and sold was already spent. Someone who dares to tell us that for sale 130,000 squares of the business space of these banks, so much sold, has been charged about 10 billion dinars. How much was charged for art paintings? As long as it hasn't gone into foreign currency in the accounts, but half of it's been spent. What the hell? Who? They're writing as much as they've given to you as they have to the state. They say -- their bankruptcy cost about 50m euros. Who was paid 50 million euros? That's how much the Beochen cement factory was sold in 2001. Do you think nobody reads this? Whether someone who has allowed the Beocinski cement factory to be used for bankruptcy that lasted eight years and has not been completed and for whom a man declares that you will continue to give so much discretion that he can assess that some deposits will be compromised, so that he so rightly asks the NBS to put that bank under administrative management, take away her license and then separates the healthy parts, and that what he considers to be unhealthy sales and disbursements. I didn't think anything in this country could surprise me anymore. I really meant it. But every time you surprise me again with one of these moves. For example, in the interview, the gentleman said -- claims are about 2,3 billion euros. It's a total government debt for two years. He says -- the commitments so far, according to confirmed reports, are about 600 million. There are still litigation cases for 800m euros. People, as if it were 800 dinars, as if it were someone's salary, from which it's really hard to separate for a baby's lunch a month 800 dinars, and not 800m euros, according to the case. A large number of companies, he says, are in the process of liquidation and bankruptcy. For example, from the Belgrade Bank, for example, Beobanka will be disbursed with the corresponding interest on December 31st, about 94m euros in old foreign exchange savings from this. It will be about 56m euros for Investbank. When will you finish your bankruptcy, ask him a journalist? He says, I don't know, probably eight more years of bankruptcy and duration. You know, he says, the bankruptcy agency was only named in 2008. Who executed the bankruptcy until 2008? Who sold and published the National Savings Bank to other banks and at what cost are the premises of these banks whose bankruptcy is still under way? So in order for someone to be able to prevent money laundering, he writes in one of the laws, he must prove that he is not convicted of abuse of official position and material abuse. What's this? Do you want me to start a procedure on this, or do the results of this agency talk enough about the senselessness of the proposal you're making? I really don't know what you're counting on - our patience, our lack of time? I spent two nights and two days with these four laws, because preventing money laundering is your biggest mess. The criticism that what you were given to do in 2006, you didn't even do in 2009. You purposely left to avoid controlling what would prove that dirty money was being turned into legal. On purpose, there's no other explanation. What someone in two nights and two days manages to read only from your reasoning and legal proposals, you have dared to suggest, for example, that a house that does a review three years back for such a bank should also be paid out of deposits. Since someone who has the profession of financial audit and does not see with three years of review that the house will enter into a dubiosis and create a problem, submits an amendment to delete this proposal, to remain the responsibility of the audit house, in the name of honor, on behalf of what is called the accounting profession, you tell me – technically incorrect amendment, because it is marked with number one, and it is number two. The substance and contents are the same. For you, President, it is a burden for professional services not to turn the phone and say – Mrs Tabakovic, this is obviously a technical mistake, let us turn this one into two. The essence and reason are pure. I know you wouldn't adopt, because you wouldn't be able to justify yourself for a technical reason. Would you be able, Madam Minister, to study four laws of this kind of content, to find an objection, to write amendments and to come here and sit, how much – by ten and something, by 11 o'clock, who knows when we'll be sitting. Is the goal of cheating on each other or repairing the environment? Is it our goal to waste funds or to invest resources for the right reasons? You say banks are the most regulated, and they are, everywhere in the world, regulatory, supervisory there is, early warning systems exist decades ago. On behalf of what do we need one of these laws? Is there anything else we've worked out, except that a loan that will raise the Agency for the Rehabilitation, Banks Banks, for which the state will guarantee, can do this kind of thing? Is that normal? So you're giving one agency the right to lend these banks special purposes. Who's in credit here? Do we have a central bank that lends commercial banks and commercial banks to the population and the economy? You're turning everything upside down. So the agency gets the right to credit. From what source? That he's taking a loan somewhere outside or inside the commercial banks, that you're guaranteeing, and we know that these guarantees fall on burden. You give them the right to defecate funds from the banks, not to keep them with you, yes, in one position, to be at the vault, and the foreign currency at the National Bank. Then you give them the right to educate the banks, to profit, and we see how they spend, give them the right to put the National Bank, without the Government, on a proposal from the board of directors of these people, somewhere abroad, by the policy under which foreign exchange reserves are placed. What caused the most storms in this country, but exactly where are they and how have this country's foreign exchange reserves been placed years ago? Haven't you heard of Mr. Governor's employment? He came here as the announced director of the HVB Bank for Governor. He went to the HVB bank, which changed her name to Unicredit, created a two-bank conversion, but it's the same one. What have we adopted for Mr. Governor? That he and his associates, article 86v of the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, who we have adopted, are never responsible for the failures and damage he or his associates did to anyone, not even when he left the bank, unless someone proves the intention of evil. That's what you're introducing here for all the people who are going to be doing this job. Do you know what you're telling us? These are the 2009 directives or you say – Basel Two is asking for it. My lords, in 2006, the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering had to contain directives on the control of money and traces of its movement. You failed until you were pressured, and now they're looking for a progress report in November, December 2010, so you gave it to fix. Is there anything else I need to say about this? Is there anything else to explain your good intentions? So, what we had to do in 2006, we did in 2010, when we needed to establish clean cash flows and ban laundry. When we need to protect bank officials, members of the board of directors who don't account for the government, who are only staring at their own pockets and the fees they receive on these boards, we are in a hurry to apply both Basel and Basel's directive on alleged independence and the protection of these officials. To put it mildly, although I had little hope that something could go better in this country, with the proposal of these four laws, I lost that hope under this government. Under whatever pressure, under whatever Latin names to hide any conditioning, you won't convince me that any of you are looking for this. Those who allegedly demand this from you are now talking a little wider with someone who represents Serbian citizens, so they say -- we as the IMF set a goal, your government must find a way to achieve that goal. When you say – achieve the stability of the financial system, it is not said to fall into a budget that is empty for everyone, they do not say for sure – take the credit, so solve this. Where is this creativity of the economic policy creators of the Serbian government, not just yours? Whose genius idea is it to promote him for the Nobel Prize winner, to explain to us what justice is at the moment when we have only a million and a half people working, when you're putting this much money into the budget for social donations, that we need to save the financial system that's brought us here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47644	On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group, Serbia and the People's MP Milorad Buha, submitted. Mr. Buha, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47645	When the whole world was in fear two years and a year ago because of the collapse and bankruptcy of large banks, medium banks, regional, local banks, investment funds, stock exchanges and other financial institutions, we received assurances from financial and monetary experts from this government that, as far as the banking system in the Republic of Serbia is concerned, all is well, banks are liquid, banks are operating well, banks are crediting, they have sufficient assets to place funds and businesses and citizens. If that wasn't the case, then the next fact, that is, the next information. In 2008, 26 banks operated with profits, eight banks with losses. In 2009, 20 banks worked with profits and 14 banks with losses. In 2010, according to these data that exist now, half the banks will deal with profits and half the loss. What will happen in 2011; it will be the year when, due to the inability to create accumulation, the inability to get foreign investment, the reduction of foreign credits and certain problems in the financial sector, primarily from budget funds to local self-government budgets, and other problems, macroeconomic problems, we will be in a position to both citizens and the economy will not be able to repay loans and this will create a problem of bank liquidity and bring them into a position of enormous indifference and will lead them into loss. We've been getting information from government officials for the last year that we're going to form a development bank. We are now getting information from Minister Dulic that a mortgage bank is forming. It all turns out to be normal, but it's not normal. Why isn't it normal? We don't have a strategy to develop the banking system. Mrs Dragutinovic, since 2001 you and Jelasic and Dinkic have been the creators of the country's monetary financial and budgetary policy. You haven't made for these ten years a strategy for the development of the banking system, with everything you've done and done. Without the banking system strategy there is no development, this is all banging and creating preconditions to come into a position that we will be in very soon. Why are you forming a bank for special purposes? There's a bank again. Just because you know that since 2011, he's been coming into the banking system a huge crisis. Why is the SRS against that bank? Because it's another institutional form of overflowing money, healthy money, to certain financial institutions that will be in function of non-domestic banking, not domestic accumulations that will be transferred in a healthy and quality way to a healthy economy, but it will be just another transfer of funds, we will take out loans from abroad, you will clearly and say through these four laws, to those banks that fail, which come into liquidity and which will become banks that go bankrupt tomorrow. With foreign credits, instead of taking those funds to develop the economy, to hire, to develop some other activities, we will do so in the banking system. Everything we've been able to do in the last ten years, we've put that into the banking system. What do we have now from this banking system? Only 2-3% of the shares left in these banks and by the rule of the bank where the state is the majority owner, they do business for years with a loss. What did you do to prevent that negative business of these banks? Nothing. You go out with one piece of information, the former governor goes with the other, Minister of Economy and Regional Development. We're going to connect three banks that do business with loss, we're going to make one healthy party, no one has ever done it, but here's how you predict it, and then we're going to put such a healthy bank, such a powerful bank that has capital, we're going to throw it into the world market, so when the bankers from the world come in, they buy, they're going to throw in a terrible asset, we're going to put it into public spending, and we live like we did in the period when we had this happy environment. You had it, that you had state banks, sold it and put it into the financial system, into certain financial resources. Let's go back to this bank for special purposes. Why is she unnecessarily unnecessary right now? It is unnecessary because it will take some of the capital out of the financial system, whether from Serbia's budget, I don't know where you'll find those five million, at least I say five million euros. On the other hand, it's not just five million euros for founding capital, you have to bring people in, first you have to pay until you get into certain financial affairs. On the other hand, you have to provide space, you have to first provide equipment in the bank, you have to first provide devices, techniques, etc., systems that will follow all of this, etc. How much does that cost? At least ten million of me fell into your water, so put it in, you get cows out of the world so we can have milk? This has nothing to do with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47646	The 4th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group to Serbia and MP Vladan Jeremic. Mrs. Tabakovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47647	The few moments we submitted in the same text to Article 2 can't, can't, doesn't matter, so because of the record, the stenographic notes, let me say the following – the agency that should be handling this bank for special purposes that the Bank Act foresees, Mrs. Minister, if you didn't know, has already received 37 billion dinars, by collecting claims from legal and natural persons according to the statement of the authorised person, Mr. Jambić, I read an interview from the "Economist", inflows from interest on the funds, they cashed 37 billion dinars. I'm going to be on today, and there was a lower course, and I'm going with some average number of 100, which means 370 million euros in revenue. It's like a state to you, trust the first order, to pay off the old foreign savings you've been crying over when we say -- duty, and you say -- yes, but for old foreign savings, you never mentioned that it's coming from here, 189m euros passed on and 1.4 billion dinars, 50m euros per person's recognition, you'll get the data on the insight, 50m euros said it cost bankruptcy. Where's the difference? Who's she married to when she's coming from? When the NBS didn't transfer funds to deposits either. What kind of responsibility can someone who lives with money have like this? Whoever has deposits abroad, the Belgrade Bank in America, was at the time of the imposition of the fine, 94m dollars, and in the accounts of the South Bank, $47m. If it were a citizen's debt, with interest from then on to this day, who knows what an increase that would be.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47648	Time. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47649	I can't keep up with you. Article 5 - within a circle of persons associated with the bank, instead of bank employees, shall be counted as members of the Board of Banks established by this Act. Not only do the responsibilities, agencies and national banks intertwine, but they even try to limit the powers to elect board members for whom criteria are strictly prescribed. I am not personally affected by it, nor do I know any member of the board of directors of any bank. How come someone's right to give themselves a double opportunity to ban, choose and draw images of these people, when for themselves, millions of people like this have no minimum legal responsibility?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47650	The 6th Amendment was submitted to the same text by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serb and People's MP Dejan Mirovic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment in the same text were submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the parliamentary group, Forward Serbia and People's MP Boris Aleksic. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47651	Article 8 provides for a bank to be harmonised for special purposes for six months and to be at a level not less than the dinar equivalent of fivem euros to the official middle rate. We know perfectly well, some colleagues have mentioned, and I'm not having a hard time repeating how credits and capital imports at one point only show up in the account, and then they retreat and it's gone. Do you really think nobody reads this? On the last agenda, we've adopted amendments to the Legislative Development Fund, Mrs. Diana, if you're not in progress, where the Development Fund is given the opportunity to be a new development bank, and here we have some other bank that will have this founding capital. Where are you going to get it, from which social benefits or subsidies you're going to take for milk, and what effects are you going to justify this to us, that's my question?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47652	The 14th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word has been made by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47653	Article 53(2) is amended by this Article 14 where banks, here is nonsense, you have to admit full, where the external auditor, we had previously had restrictions that he could only audit the same bank for three years, three years consecutively, now in order to improve financial stability and greater control and regulation, you are extending the time limit for him, this auditor, to carry out five consecutive audits. Explain to me what the logic is that the same person has been auditing not three, but five years.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47654	Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47655	It is almost identical to the amendment, except in response this amendment is not accepted. You stated because of the Audit and Accounting Act, because it was written there that five years in a row one and the same auditor to be external banks are specific and that's why the original text of the Banks Act was three years, precisely because of this specificity, but right now someone in the world is thinking about Basel 3, and these experts are thinking about Basel 6. So Basel 3 isn't finished yet. Basel 4 isn't even thinking straight. For Basel Five, I don't know if anyone's dreaming, and our experts are already writing Basel Six. It's a miracle unseen. Why is that a miracle? Because the threshold of suffering in Serbia is extremely high. It's just that there's a lot of things going on in Serbia. As citizens suffer, those in power, each morning they get baptized and say, "Is it possible that we are still in power, that no one has taken us down?" It's amazing, 500 million dinars owe citizens to banks, I hate to read these grim results of Serbia's banking system. Probably ten banks at the moment are thinking about how to escape this market in agreement with the Agency, the NBS, the government, the Vienna Agreement, because they have a lot of rights to call on the Vienna Agreement. The first signal for this is that the banks have for months given up buying short-term securities that our vault provides funds to bridge the gaps of current funding.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47656	Time. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47657	In this article, and this is the key aspect of the SRS, because you're doing what you do in practice, the monopolization of the market. You made a monopoly the moment you shut down those four big banks and you drove all the other banks off the market and there was some change left. What is the characteristic of this moment is the monopolization of the market and interest rate. These banks don't do bank jobs, they do interest rates. We pay the biggest banking interest in Europe, we pay the biggest fees, the biggest fees, etc. Mrs Dragutinović, what you could read in the 19th century economic and financial textbooks, the 18th and 17th centuries, it's classic interest, it's the blackest form of banking work. This is now being done in the banking system of the Republic of Serbia. See what the monopolization of the market means. The primate that has banks over the number of employees in the banking system can be clearly seen in 2000. 26 thousand workers, in 2003 22.310, 2004. 24,400, 2008. 32,300 and now in 2009 we're a little down. The number of workers shows that we have monopolized the market. We're losing business. The citizens are over-indebted. The entire infrastructure of the state is over-indebted, only banks live and earn profits, and they hire and they buy the best locations and they are the most equipped and orderly. That's not normal. This government has to make a strategy for the banking system right now. What tomorrow? What in 2015 and what in 2025. Without that, we don't have a banking system, we don't have a state.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47658	Time. A group of the 21st People's MPs of the Progressive Group submitted to the 17th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47659	Article 17 is reportedly harmonising the law where the Assembly is given jurisdiction to decide now on the establishment of this bank for special purposes, and I will time for this amendment in fact to spend and to point out another fact. The Bank was in this status in which the Assembly will decide in this way, in Article 109, it states that, as a reason for taking a temporary measure towards the bank, it is also proposed to compromise the interest of opponents, i.e. the likelihood that these interests will be compromised. Thus, the congregation will decide on the status of such a measure, or bank, only if it is done or made possible that the interests will be compromised. As long as the limits of discretion are in this case. There's now a real word of rudeness that explains discretion or insolence in managing the financial system.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47660	A group of the 21st People's MPs of the Progressive Group submitted to the 18th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47661	I have pointed out in principle that this Article 18 is changing the reasons for denying consent to the person proposed for a member of the Management Board. I really can't believe that NBS is compromised in this way and using its power to impose changes in a personal sense, and because of the stability of the financial system. Do you know what I've convinced myself by reading this law? The responsibility to carry power and to have 126 votes seems to have become too heavy a burden for one's shoulders and well-meaning. It's my only comment on this member.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47662	National MPs Nenad Popovic, Arsen Djuric and Jovan Palalic submitted together to the 32nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. National MPs Nenad Popovic, Arsen Djuric, Jovan Palalic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted together to the 33rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 39th Amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47663	The amendment of the SRS parliamentary club to Article 39 is a logical trail of our previous amendments, which provide for erasure of provisions relating to the bank for special purposes. It is our general view that given that there is a Deposit Insurance Agency, it should carry out these tasks which are intended by this law to the bank for special purposes. First of all, there is a bank for special purposes, and it is a project that requires a numerical share of the founding capital of at least 5m euros, and besides, it takes a lot of time to start working, not overnight. We need personnel to deal with this sensitive business. As long as it's all done, a bank that's in trouble, i.e. which NBS took away as a work permit, what kind of bank does it work? To wait for the establishment and start of the bank for special purposes. We have every day an opportunity to hear about how the banking sector in Serbia has remained stable, well-capitalised and that citizens should not worry about their money entrusted to banks. Indeed, bank balance data in the first quarter of this year shows no significant change compared to the same period last year. The net profits of the entire banking sector ranged from 1.3% of interest revenue and increased by 2.5%, the assets of the banks had a 24% growth thanks to subsidised loans and loans from the public sector and the state. The total deficits had a growth of 21. If only these data were analysed which represent one picture of the banking sector, it could not be concluded that there are great reasons for concern. There's also a reason how when you look at the other side, i.e. The daily life of most citizens who have decided to take loans at some point. This is especially brought to citizens who have taken up housing loans. Let me just point out that according to the records of the bank's association...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47664	Time. National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted to the 40th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47665	The sad thing is, Mrs Dragutinovic, I am trying to present this as the government's responsibility to deal with a financial system in a state where 88 or 800 million dinars were charged on behalf of exchange rates by banks only this year. One question is why the state needs to protect the financial system, when in one document that we have all received, a report on the state of the financial system in 2010 wrote the following, banks in Serbia are highly capitalised and liquid, with adequate reserves, and thus extremely resistant to the negative impact that could arise in the event of a pessimistic macroeconomic scenario, etc. We don't just know what's true, what's real or what's written here or what you're suggesting that you want to protect this set of laws. The whole story is that a whole set of laws is adopted for one single reason, which is the condition of the World Bank to acquire the right to withdraw $100 million from that budget bank, if you come into a situation to protect the financial system, because when you see what it says in the Republic of Serbia's budget, God forbid something in the financial system would make us feel better, we wouldn't be patched up again by world banks, or international funds, or who knows what.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47666	National MPs Nenad Popovic, Arsen Djuric and Zeljko Tomic together submitted the 43rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a review of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 3rd point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of Procedure: Lidija Dimitrijevic, Tomislav Nikolic, Jorvanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Sasa Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borislav Posevica, Mileta Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Čolić, Boris Šalić, Borjana Mirić and Mirjan Mirić. You've received the Government's opinion on the amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MP Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47667	This amendment to the SRS parliamentary club is a legal-technical nature. We've suggested erasing the word "based by a special law", and it's meant by the Deposit Insurance Agency. It is unnecessary to introduce this into the law because it is well known that there is a special law on the Deposit Insurance Agency and this law was established in 2005. Since it is an amendment to the technical nature, the position of the SRS is that it should have been accepted because the text of the law would have been really better without any more general knowledge. In this time, I will again return to some of the extremely important things relating to the growing problem that has arisen due to the inability of citizens to settle their commitments to banks, which could undoubtedly lead to inconceivable negative consequences recently, so the Deposit Insurance Agency would have a lot of work to do. According to the Serbian Banks Association, each citizen on average owes 560 euros on the basis of a loan, an increase of 0.1% each month in payment delays, a poor trend that, if continued, will be a serious problem. A large number of debtors are late in paying off the war for more than two months and some more than three months. For this reason, the demand for refinance loans is increasing, and citizens are taking loans from banks to pay for the earlier commitments they have made. Unfortunately, since some people who took loans in the meantime lost their jobs, there is no possibility of serving their obligations and when it comes to housing loans, since they are mostly secured by mortgages, banks have already begun to activate mortgages. I won't list which bank is how many mortgages are activated, but it is important to point out that many banks in Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47668	Time, thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Mrs. Tabakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47669	If we don't finish this debate tonight, we probably won't be able to withdraw any 300 million funds, they're waiting for somewhere tomorrow, but let's take that rush. So, this law follows the basic idea of setting up a bank for special purposes, and now Article 5 is complemented by Article 3, where we are seeking to delete a member seeking to transfer assets and liabilities to another bank, here for special purposes. We find that founding absolutely unnecessary, which is why we're asking for an erasure. What's hypocritical? To say in this article that all creditors are placed in the same position that everyone can say goodbye to what they ask of that bank, because it is all done without the consent of shareholders, depositors and other creditors. Did you, Madam Minister, see, I don't know, but you say – it's the same treatment of creditors that buying and taking over the entire or part of the property is done without any consent. What is said in Article 3v – The Agency can provide financial support to the bank for these and these tasks which will take up this property, the whole or part of the liabilities, from the intended sources of budgets or by borrowing or loans. Was there anything else to write about erasing this amendment? In a crisis like this, with a deficit like this, with a situation of extremely liquid, nowhere better, extremely capitalised banking system, which has yields, and not in any country in an environment like ours, a banking system that traded with the state as the best payer, which in 2006 gave a double amount above inflation on re-op, here you go and evaluate.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47670	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment is Parliament member Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47671	After these amendments to this law, practically every bank can freely decide whether to shut itself down or to create a situation for the National Bank to withdraw its license. In both variants, if the bank is from abroad, it's protected. The government is doing all this to protect citizens' deposits, and in the meantime all these banks are exporting capital abroad. Those with foreign names if the mother from abroad invites them to make money. However, a large amount of these money is abroad, and some money the IMF has not even given to our country, but is being held in the central banks of the United States, Great Britain and Germany, these are the three billion that have never been ratified under that agreement, so that they can be sure that their money will return. You know, in a gala like that when all this is cooked up and put on, then it's all clear. Citizens, if you happen to have some money in the banks, pull that money, take it home, because it's ready for you and the fact that you've had the theft of those who are taking you to Europe. Thank you, Mrs. Djukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47672	On Article 5 of the amendment, the People's MP, Milorad Buha, is on the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47673	Same target, same distance, special purpose bank. When we talk about this bank in concept, we have to talk about what are the reasons that bring it to function, the bank you form, and you're going to form it, you're going to have 126. The main reason it appears in legal life and financial life is that the National Bank of Serbia is not in office. Her control role isn't operational. For 2007 and 2008 we were able to obtain data on the control function of the National Bank through the National Bank report, so we saw that there were some commercial offences, ten, twelve, fifteen violations. However, for 2009, no violations, no economic offenses and the entire banking system are operating normally, etc. Mrs Dragutinović, in practice it is not. It's in practice and criminal acts, and business crimes and all. All that's now rotting in the banking system, it's going to come out one minute. Now we need a bank for special purposes that needs to absorb all that, take foreign funds, place it in a failed system. So, that bank that's insolvent, the one that doesn't complete the legal lists in accordance with the provisions of the Banks Act and the National Bank and other legal regulations, the one that's insolvent, the one that comes into a position to withdraw her license, now you're going to transfer her to this bank, spend those funds, the dry funds that she's going to grant abroad. Or through certain funds, which you will find in the RS budget, you will transfer to this bank and spend the battery that is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47674	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Article 5. The amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Article 5. The amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47675	An amendment submitted to Article 5 The draft law amending and supplementing the Bank’s bankruptcy and liquidation law and insurance companies has been proposed to delete the new Article 3d. Since we have also proposed, in the previous draft law on which we have conducted the debate, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Bank Act, to delete all provisions relating to banks of special purpose, we have also proposed this in this bill, so that this amendment is a logical follow-up to all of our previous amendments concerning eradicating the provisions on banks of special purpose. The government has decided to refuse all of our amendments. Me and fellow MPs of the SRS Parliament Club have made arguments, Madam Minister has heard us, there is time to vote by the day, so if there is a change of opinion, these amendments may be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47676	The 6th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word is Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47677	Article 6 of the proposal, which we have requested to delete, defines that, on the basis of the solution, the authorisation to carry out insurance operations is withdrawn, because they are now separated from the bankruptcy and liquidation of banks, by establishing this special bank, that the National Bank of Serbia immediately adopts a decision on the fulfilment of the conditions for the initiation of bankruptcy proceedings against the insurance company, and in paragraph 2, it is said that this is a solution to fulfil the conditions for the initiation of the bankruptcy proceedings against the insurance company at last and is carried out at the time of delivery to the competent court. How many proceedings are still open and unfinished from these implemented bankruptcy and liquidation procedures of the insurance companies, it is well known to both the National Bank and those who have worked on this. In human behavior, the question arises: Is sin going first, then punishment? So it's said, for example, that sin itself is a punishment, when someone is envious, jealous, evil man, there is already a punishment in its very nature. In the conduct of economic operators, punishment must follow for those who have caused evil, or sin, rather than foreclose the consequences of such law - making.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47678	The 8th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Here you go, Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47679	Here, in this part of Article 8, the probability of creating a reason for the case being treated by this law is repeated. So it's unacceptable. Not only the urgency and final decision taken over economic operators in these areas, but it is terrible that they are based on possible and probable assumptions about the fulfilment of the conditions for bankruptcy proceedings. Tell me, please, would you want someone, because he's a possible offender or is it likely that you have evidence to convict and send to court? But you really send someone to court with this behavior and punish them without being unequivocally determined.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47680	The 9th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47681	The reasons are the same as for the amendment to Article 8, so I won't repeat them.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47682	After we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular, and since we have carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We are passing the 4th point of the agenda: – PROPOSE OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE LAW ON OSERVATION OF DEPOZITA Details) You have received amendments submitted at the proposal of the Law by the MPs: Zoran Krasić, Milorad Buha, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Dragan Stevanović, Boris Aleksic, Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Oto Kišmarton, Milan Knezević, Sasa Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Branija Pošurić, Mileta Pošurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković and Dragan Čolić. You received a report from the Finance Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47683	Of course, we follow that basic idea about this special bank, but this law may be more important because of other provisions than just bringing it down to this special bank, the bank of special purposes. With us up to 50,000 euros in dinar equivalent or up to 50,000 euros in total, every deposit is secured. It's the bank's duty, a three-month premium is determined. She's being paid into the insurance agency's account. This should serve as a guarantee, the state guarantees all such deposits up to that amount. However, the question arises – who in this country has deposits greater than 50,000 euros? That's the central question. The pen's gone. Everyone who works in the National Assembly, the employees don't have, the pensioners don't. Who's got it? That's the central question. Since you're going to Europe, how is it in Western Europe? Are there limits there? In many countries, there is no upper limit. The state guarantees all bets. How's the savings going with us? In euros 70%, 30% in dinars. Last year and this year you wanted to increase the reputation of dinars and stimulate people to save in dinars. What happened? Since you came to power by 50% he's weakened the dinar. What do you mean, it's not? Why are you turning your head, Madam Minister, when the NBS admits it? You just turn your head when someone tells you something. That's your data, 50% the dinar has weakened. Is that what you're proud of?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47684	Time. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47685	He can't protect here from the responsibility of those who have proposed no time, no late hours, absolutely nothing. This is a law that protects those who have, at the expense of those who do not, because from the Republic budget, on the basis of credit borrowing or budget funds or the State's guarantee of credit debt, provides for the protection of deposits that exist, and those of 50,000 and over 50,000. Why isn't there a law that forces employment and savings, and we all agree theoretically, that healthy development is only on its own savings? Why, Mrs Dragutinovic, do you not insist that your deposits, states, have them spent from earlier years, have them by banks, collect and place at the National Bank or by the Development Bank of Serbia, so they do not finance export projects to reduce the deficit, so it does not finance agriculture and employment of people from whom someone will be able to save the schooling of a child, not that of those who do not have the funding of those who have? It is a fundamental objection to this law, and everything under the mask of the stability of the financial system and respect for the world.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47686	On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47687	From the point of view of the SRS, Article 1(2), indent 1, is both anti-constitutional and illegal, based on several legal rules. I'll read it very soon. In addition to the transactions referred to in Article 1 of this Article, the Agency shall provide financial support to banks in accordance with this law, including credit approval. You of the agency that specializes in the state institution, which has a special task of providing deposits, paying off deposits, if the bank comes into bankruptcy, as they do in all countries, from this institution you form a banking institution and you can't see it anywhere in the world, but it's even more tragic when we see sources of funding from the agency from which to help banks, or from which to borrow. It says so -- sources of funding for financial support are the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the funds of the agency, the funds of donations and other sources. Financial support from this member of the agency provides by granting credit, cannot, cannot, cannot, is not in practice in other countries, we do not have a parallel right and similar thing, by providing grants for the payment of secured deposits. When a bank comes to bankruptcy, in the west, then a specialised organization founded by the state deny the deposit, but to give grants to banks that are still alive, which are not in bankruptcy, that's what it says here, that's insane. Health funds, and we still take from abroad under unfavourable conditions, we give to the bank, etc. It's so written here. Next, by buying debt instruments, banks...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47688	Time. Thank you. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47689	Excuse me, it's an amendment to Article 6.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47690	The 6th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Milorad Bhuha.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47691	What is the specificity of this Article 6? The opportunity to buy shares so far has been erased. It is from the aspect of the SRS's healthiest activity – buying action, becoming a shareholder. That's what all the countries of the world do. Hundreds of billion euros and dollars are invested in the banking system by buying shares. Now this financial transaction, this financial opportunity, the operation, you delete and enter very risky placements. What are the risky plasmas? Helping banks who are in a position of indifference. I ask you, Mrs Dragutinović - when the economy will welcome this benefit that when it comes into a position of in liquidity it shows its indifference, it gets adequate liquid assets, it enters production, etc. Well, I guess all the legal entities in this country are equal. You're detaching the banking system. Whose banking system is it? Who are the shareholders? Foreign banks, foreign states? There's been a devastating policy of this government since 2000, you sold the banking system, you broke up the banking system, you drove away the most professional people in the banking system, because we had very serious experts in the banking system. They're on the labour market now, or who knows where they're doing all kinds of business. There are young people who have no experience, no knowledge, but that's why we have the banking interest that we have. This is devastating for Serbian national interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47692	The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47693	Article 6 regulates the formation of Fund funds as sources from which these deposits will be provided and they form from what banks pay as a premium. The revenue from the investment that the Fund will make by investing these deposits, the funds achieved by the payment of the claim, and that is particularly controversial for me, I told you that the Agency for the Bank, i.e. from the winding-up mass, not from that bank, but from the experience it has done for years. She charged $370 million. I transferred it to the state of 189. She spent 50m euros. There's no sign of 130m euros. From the funds that have been created and charged, you foresee to use even debt-provided funds, we retain funds from the budget, but it is terrible that such funds can be used as financial support to that bank for special purposes. So, instead of punishing someone who was incompetent, irresponsible or radio-abused, he wasn't assessing credit risks, you want to treat them with money from these purposes that are listed here. Inadmissible.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47694	The 7th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47695	Article 7 defines how the funds raised in this fund will be invested. Now play responsibility and say – first it will be a priority for those funds to be placed, so that liquidity is maintained and that it is an advantage when the funds are placed, and then it will be taken into account that the corresponding income is brought to the funds. Did someone say what was done with a 130-million-dollar change? How are these and where are they placed, what income did they bring and are they liquidally available to agencies that are already doing so? Do you really think you owe no one a word of reason?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47696	The 8th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47697	This is the member who, in the principle debate on amendments, listed under Article 8 is amended as Article 9 of the current law, where the Agency is given the right, even for you which banking is not interested, I must stress this, the Agency may establish a premium of insurance in accordance with the overall risk situation and may, apart from the National Bank, provide for its people to enter, verify the documents and reports provided by that bank on the basis of which the premium is to be determined. Can you hear me, Madam Minister? So, the Agency doesn't believe the NB, it doesn't believe that credible reports are to charge the premium, and they were believed in privatisation when the plants without machines were displayed, when thousands of squares were forgotten in buildings in downtown Belgrade and illegal privatisation was done, and here you want the double key system, that the Agency is also checking the reports to determine the premium payment and these reports that are being delivered to the NB. Whose is this impotence or ingenuity or whose intention is this?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47698	A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47699	On Article 10 amending Article 15 of the Law, we have submitted an amendment because this solution provides that, if the funds that this agency has are not sufficient, additional resources should be provided. I will tell you that the agency currently has 140m euros to its insurance fund, so they say if these 140m euros are not enough that they can provide additional funds and now here is the source at which we have the most objections, that this is provided from the RS budget or borrowing with a guarantee abroad and that RS can do so, and do you know how – the Government brings approval for that, and at the request of the Agency. Who is the Government here, and who is it giving orders to – the Agency and its Management Board to the Government or should it be the other way around?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47700	I conclude the review of the bill's proposal in particular after we have carried out a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move to the 5th point of the agenda: – Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Agency for Security of Deposit (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by Members of the People's Parliaments at the Bill: Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antić, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Branislav Pelević, Mileta Posurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Čolić, Milorad Buha, Milorad Krasic, Dejan Mirović, Borisović, Vlanić, Nezen Pošarić, Nezendić. You received a report from the Finance Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Before the move towards a review of the bill in particular, I would like to remind the MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric, in writing, withdrew the amendments they submitted together to Article 9 of the bill. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47701	We've been looking for a erasure at article 1. Some logical trail would be if it had just come from this law, because it is the essence of setting up a bank for special purposes, that it performs the function of the bank administrator governing the bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and insurance companies, and that it provides financial support to banks in accordance with this law, as well as the approval of loans. So the real and essential newspapers are precisely in the Agency's jurisdiction, although this is the idea, the frame, the roof, as you said, this is the executioner of this fantastic idea by which the agency gets the right to approve loans, and all with the aim of improving the stability of the financial system.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47702	The First Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go. You won't. Good The First Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. You will, Mr. Krassic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47703	I'd love to. With this amendment, I wanted to play a little game with the promoter to explain to me what the difference between the administrator and the warden is. Of course, they know it doesn't matter. The purpose of this law is to remove traces. To remove traces of everything that has been done in the financial and banking sector. To remove traces of what she was doing to all the NBS. To forget about the National Savings Bank, to forget about Cyprus, to forget about the Vienna Agreement, to forget about the duties, to forget about Darko Saric, to forget about what Serbian citizens cannot possibly forget. Understand this, no one has the right to forget. You didn't paint for nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47704	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47705	You know what's interesting? That it is written in an explanation for the adoption of this law that the existing solutions cover those activities which appear on behalf of and on behalf of the RS account. Whose RS is it? Are those currently in power or citizens of Serbia at whose expense or whose burden is trying to repair the potential loss of a bank? Isn't this the ultimate hypocrisy and a long time ago you were told there wasn't a perfect robbery. The system that the Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises has been created by the Regional Development Agency does not mean that the start-ap loan affair is not open and it is not true that even one type of theft with the adoption of this law on the prevention of money laundering will be able to protect authors and perpetrators. I really believe that if there was something good that could have served this government on honour, some of the laws it passed, these laws, so provided under the supposed guarantee dictatorship of some 300m euros from the World Bank, are indeed not a good excuse, but are the worst recommendations for those who run this government right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47706	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47707	These are laws that intertwine and are the realisation of what is imagined in previous laws, and it is no wonder that Article 8 of one law coincides with the solution set out in Article 8 of the Second Law, only the agency appears as the doer of these things. Article 8 amends the applicable Article 14 of the Act on which revenue for the work of the agencies is provided from the RS budget and can also be kept on bank accounts with prior consent from the Ministry of Finance Affairs. So, Mrs. Dragutinović, you knew anyway. If you're the ones who bring consent, and you've had to be, they couldn't have made these suggestions without your knowledge to bring them here before the MPs and to act this hard, no matter how few we are, but the arguments are really not on our side, but they're against all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47708	The 9th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Milorad Buha and a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47709	You can hate me all for holding you back, but I have to tell you this – when you write that it is a bank that threatens stability and puts it in the same flat bank that has been withdrawn, I ask those who listen to the meaning of the word in Serbian – can there be a sign of equality between those two things or cannot? When you make it likely that someone will compromise the financial system, or its stability, and you take away a bank's license, and you treat them equally, what kind of state you are, what kind of NBS, what kind of assembly you're going to make tonight, or the day you vote this law. And when not enough funds are taken where there are least, it's not enough for me to repeat it a hundred times, as it's not enough for me to mention tonight that someone can't learn because there's no power left, sleeps with a sister in a room in the dark. Those live-in crocodile tears and these laws don't go with each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47710	Mr. Milorad Buha has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47711	This is probably the rarity of the legal system. This is something we need to read. It's probably unrecorded by now. Article 9 says – in case the agency does not have the means to carry out the agency's tasks, at the request of the agency, the government is obliged, the lower body orders the government and by an emergency procedure, there is no messing with them, that the government will decide on the security of funds from the RS budget. Mrs Dragutinović, when the agency tells you – money in the sun, it immediately goes to the government by emergency procedure. It doesn't end that scenario. If you don't have a budget, immediate borrowing in the country and abroad under the National Assembly Act. You still need to get an act of the National Assembly in the meantime. Item 2 states - The National Assembly shall adopt an act on the indicative amount of borrowing referred to in Article 1(1) at an extraordinary sitting. At the same time, secure funds from the budget. If you don't, you'll be in charge right now. Call an emergency meeting of the Assembly. This is not recorded in the legal system. What's this? What's this about? Mrs Dragutinovic, Austria, Croatia, BiH, Macedonia, wherever the Austrian capital of Hipo Bank was reached, they were all shaking everyone they were going to catch and crime was discovered everywhere, and in Austria they put the chairman of the board of directors in prison, for a time one of the shareholders. After that, he transferred funds to another bank. In the Republic of Croatia Sanader was there and will most likely answer before the law. The only thing that doesn't have an affair in RS. We're all honest.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47712	Time. The 10th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47713	Mrs Dragutinović, I'm really interested in whether you've read the argument on article 9, where I said, what my colleague said, is that you come to the Assembly when you lack money, that without the Public Procurement Act, and in accordance with the Public Debt Act, and it's urgent and urgent, and I quote to you the whole explanation of article 14, did you ever see it? Have you burned your ears and allowed someone to respond that all of this is in order to react more effectively to the preservation of financial stability. In Article 10, you continue to amend Article 17 of the applicable law by extending the circle of the Board of Directors of the Agency, which he decides on the availability of these funds. The assembly to approve, the government to secure, and the team I've been quoting from the agency all night can do whatever they want. Whether we're Ghana or Fiji, or Chad, figure it out now on your own.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47714	The 10th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47715	We must repeat because it is unusual for you to mention in the same law, either in two laws, or in all these four laws, you mention the bankruptcy manager, the liquidator, the forced manager and the administrator. Look, it's more or less the same business. The name, the Serbian language, is very rich here. Within that legal and linguistic concept, the warden, you can realize all of this by the administrator. But you're breaking the legal system. You break the legal system with one foreign name, and you have a domestic, Serbian name that is common, and in practice you have quite enough formulations to solve everything with the manager. I have asked one institution, or lawyer, to deal with certain tasks in a pre-crisis procedure and to carry out affairs for the MUP, at night and day arrests. They did not receive compensation for their work in 2009-2010. They ask you, Mrs Dragutinovic, to find within this billion a hundred million, what is a debt of the MUP to lawyers who do these jobs. For 2009-2010, they have not received any compensation and ask that, when explaining these and giving orders to the MUP, out of this amount of a billion, 100 million you provide for these fees and the jobs that are being done here in 2009-2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47716	Parliamentary Group Forwards Serbia and People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic submitted an amendment to Article 11. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47717	Article 11 speaks of the famous irresponsibility of those we cannot prove evil intentions or harm, who will never be responsible for what they're doing. The budget will pay for the NBS mistakes that will not exercise control. Everyone is defending themselves behind the interests of the Republic of Serbia, and I ask you, what is the definition of the Republic of Serbia? Government, citizens, workers, hungry, unemployed, older or children? That will end the "gratitude" of this law and the decision of this government.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47718	Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 6th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Money and Financiranja Terrorism (specificities) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs: Petar Jojić, Vjerica Rade, Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Knezmarton, Milan Knezevic, Sasa Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borisa Pošurić, Mileta Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković and Dragan Čolić. You received a report from the Finance Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47719	Although many are convinced that all secrets can be easily revealed, it is obvious that only secrets are revealed that want to be revealed. The criticism you received from a competent organisation dealing with the prevention of money laundering, that you did not act under Regulation No 1771 of 2006 and that you did not allow to simplify the monitoring and monitoring and knowledge of the party for persons you know as a debtor, and that you were missing out on passing, as the children would say, trucks, planes and trains, says this law. The biggest criticism of this government is the reasoning of the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and 40 plus 9 recommendations given to you. The amendment to Article 1, which I have just submitted, is that it is not enough to say that there should be, that it is a worthy document based on which you evaluate a party, must be as precise as Article 7 paragraph 1 of the law says, because, where the signatures are and where the pictures stand, we have happened to be embarrassed by huge amounts of money laundering and to be dragged into an affair with drug smuggling. If there was this law, and he was in this form, would it be possible for that to happen, Mrs Dragutinovic? On your cheek, and on Mrs. Snezana Malovic's cheek, is the most shameful criticism of the Serbian state on the way to EU accession. Today you've been listening to the news, how important people from America have been caught laundering money, financing some campaigns. Yeah, you don't look up to such countries when you have to stop the roads of dirty money. You only want to see yourself when it comes to helping the stability of the financial system.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47720	Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Madam Minister, do you want a word? I'm sorry, we still have the seventh item on the agenda. We move to the 7th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA TO USE EXPORT DEVELOPMENT CANAD ON THE LEGATION OF RTB BOR – GROUPS OF THE RUDAR AND SOLUTIONAL BASIC BOR D.O.O.O. IN RESTRUCTURE (specificity) you have received the bill. You received the Government's opinion on the amendment. You received a report from the Finance Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular, and in general. Madam Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47721	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, as many of you as you are here in these late hours. So, after two days of socializing and arguing, if I had the opportunity to say in one single sentence what is the main message of the debate, then that would be the following: never enough for subsidies, businesses and agriculture and never enough savings, when it comes to the government and when it comes to the so-called. purchase of goods and services. It is as if it has been deliberately ignored that most of these purchases of goods and services, such favorite items of MPs, are expenditures on science, because science is projected and cost for foster parents. When you clear all other expenditures from the two largest, so when you divide by the number of employees, which according to the World Bank study, as much as some do not like, the number of employees is at a level below the average in the region. When you divide that, you'll see what the cost of a job in the state administration is. It is true that there are some agencies, or budget users who have slightly higher travel costs, but they are only the result of the specificity of the budget user. For example, the Agrarian Payments Authority is indeed different from all other administrations and the costs of official travel in that administration are higher simply because the headquarters is not in Belgrade, but rather in Belgrade, for example. In a whisper. Also, some major spending has the police, has the army, has the IRS and, of course, diplomacy. There were proposals I liked very much, but I did not adopt those amendments. So I'd appreciate it if this was a budget, but this is a rebalance. The changes in excise policy that have been practically requested by some MPs are quite legitimate and are precisely the kind of change that is being considered, but as a basis of the 2011 budget. Also, there was an amendment to MP Popovic, who essentially says that if privatisation revenues are higher than planned to save so much on borrowing costs. Since it is estimated that this year there will be no significant revenues from privatisation, it was indeed the only reason why this amendment was rejected, but it will certainly be an integral part of the 2011 budget. I will take this opportunity to show whether excises are oil derivatives and whether oil derivatives are the largest in Europe or this part of Europe. I have graphs, there's diesel, there's gas, there's Serbia's yellow, and the rest of the countries in the region, so that's this poverty here and there around us, and we can see exactly that when the product prices are in question, Serbia is right on average. The most frequently criticised item and the largest number of amendments in the budget were the deficit, its size, in the way it was financed, therefore, by borrowing. I have repeatedly stated that even in my private life I do not allow myself deficits and that I am quite conservative, but also on the other hand I teach students that the deficit is an instrument of fiscal policy. However, I would not like to discuss the budget only on the question of the deficit because it is too simple. So the deficit is just one of the indicators of the quality of fiscal policy. The quality of fiscal policy says a lot: the level of tax rates and the structure of fiscal instruments, whether you tax capital, labour or consumption, the level of public expenditure, their structure and what is called sustainability. You really have countries that have a huge state, so a big share of public spending in GDP, and yet a good fiscal policy, you have countries that have a deficit and a good fiscal policy, you have countries that have years of balance, but so on. Nothing changes, nothing changes, so it's a very bad fiscal policy. Of course I liked, personally, an amendment that essentially wanted to accept a new income projection, but left old expenditures and as a result gets a smaller deficit, but again, only the deficit is not proof that some fiscal policy is good or bad. So, since that is already the sixth budget in this government's term, I can already recognise what will be the most common amendments and what is the one that MPs are most insisting on. There were a lot of proposals to delete individual members, for example, on borrowing, on giving a guarantee or on individual loans, but even those who essentially asked for the removal of expenditure under the Public Debt Administration, which directly refers to the payment, i.e. the cost of debt service. So I haven't really treated such amendments seriously. Based on my previous memory, since this is already the sixth budget, I've seen what budget users are on your dance card, as I would say. So you would erase the government's total expenditure in general and individual vice presidents, all vice presidents, so all of what's somehow connected to the government. As always, there were mutually opposed amendments, someone was in favour, and someone against increasing the transfer of municipalities, someone for, someone against increasing subsidies. There were also incorrect data, especially those relating to agricultural subsidies. So I will repeat again, when we talk about subsidies to agriculture and when we talk about the agricultural budget, some MPs deliberately talk about only one source of these funds and deliberately forget that these are not the only sources of funding for the agricultural budget. So there are other sources. These sources, however small they seem to us, because that's not enough for us, are about 24 billion dinars this year. There were, of course, some misunderstandings. You know that I'm always open to good amendments, but again, this is a rebalance, and you would equally criticise the fact that this rebalancing, for example, was in May, if you were to criticise and say – what is this government that so bad predicts that already in May needs a rebalancing? So there's always a reason for criticism. That's how you criticize this, even though you know well that, here, November is at the end and that 92% of the expenditure has already been made. Of course, there were also real political messages, that this budget does not think about Serbian citizens. Of course, there are always cases and sad stories about how there are those that the state doesn't think about. But there is not a single country that can provide everything and you can always find such an example, not only in Serbia. I would take this opportunity and say that this budget is, however, a budget that takes care of the citizens of Serbia, about 1.6 million pensioners, about 435 thousand government employees, about 85 thousand unemployed, about 60,000 people with disabilities, about 400,000 children who are supposed to receive a child's allowance, 65,000 young mothers, God forbid there are more, about 60,000 families receiving social assistance, and so on and so on. They are Serbian citizens. At the end of this budget debate, someone mentioned Laz Pachu. I love that there's simply no position or opposition when it comes to Laza Pachu. I'd say it again if there were a lot of legends about him. I love legends, as I love fairy tales, but, you know, about a man named Laza Pachu and a minister of finance can best be spoken when you look at his budget and what I say, historical facts. Laza Pachu had deficit budgets. Those deficits weren't small. Laza Pachu financed the war. Laza Pachu, therefore, covered it all with debt. Indeed, he opposed the king only in legend, but not in historical fact, because as much as he opposed the king, you can best see when you compare the king's expenses, compared to all the other users of the budget of that time. So, he's the king every year who's singled out more and more. That's what Laza Pachu was like, I don't think he went well in the Assembly defending this budget. Next, you'll let me say just a few more sentences and look back at the discussions concerning the financial law. I would like to tell you, and probably the largest number of you know this, that yesterday or the day before yesterday, I don't know exactly, presented a report on tradition or the famous "transition report" for 2010, of course, in the publication of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. It's a report that is presented every year for countries that I like to say are part of the EBRD community. There are 29 of them. If you have not been able to take a look at this report, I would ask you to do so, especially those who used this speaker to speak in a funny way about financial sector indicators in Serbia, how liquid it is, how well it is funded and how capitalised it is. When you look at, since the financial sector and the sector analysis in these 29 countries is dedicated to almost the greatest attention of the report and they are nice to give charts where exactly it is seen that by indicators, so apart from what makes financial stability, Serbia, however, has 29 countries in the community, in the first place. So compared to these countries, you always have to compare with someone, that's the meaning of the assessment. So, you get your grade by having someone to compare with, so you're better or you're bad. And as we're in some 90th place of competitiveness, and that's true and I won't deny it, so here we are in first place in the financial sector. Why did we change these laws? Really knowing what this set of financial laws looked like before and after the change, I really can't understand this kind of discussion. Having a good financial system and still having a good time, given the high degree of financial euroisation in this crisis, does not mean that one day there will be no crisis. You know it is the fact that it's a financial crisis and that it's a prefix of the world and it's not the first financial crisis. I wish it was the last one, but I'm afraid not. So the purpose of all these changes was that we had tools, that if it appeared and only if a troubled bank appeared, only if that bank could affect the breakdown of the financial sector, because the financial sectors of many countries had diverged, so, in that case alone, the role of the state was to react. Does anyone want to tell me that it's impossible, or that no country has ever seen a case of a troubled bank. Is it possible to withdraw the problem bank's license, so it was under the current system and current laws, and so it will be in the future. For the state, it's always the most expensive thing when it takes away the bank's work permit, there's a troubled bank, past all the NBS controls. It just happens, the NBS takes away the work license, that's all it was, that happens, and what do you think, in that case we should do with the population's deposits? Could trust be built by no deposit insurance? All changes are made that essentially every injection of the state should be less than the most expensive one, which is the payment of the secured deposit. Nothing's more expensive than that. Only in that sense should we observe these laws. I think it's very clear in the law that a distinction has been made between the NBS functions and the Deposit Insurance Agency. First, what it is is the Deposit Insurance Agency in Serbia, it's a federal security deposit company in the United States, it's so-called. deposit funds for insurance in all European countries. Someone can say, well, in these European countries, the state does not stand behind guaranteeing deposits and saving the population. That's right. You know why? Because all these countries and all these funds in European countries are tied to the network and when one fund, I won't say, fails, but a troubled bank appears in one country, guarantees another country's fund. This is the benefit of EU countries. Until they created a network, the states guaranteed secured deposits. Do we think we're building trust in the banking sector? Would trust be built if the state didn't guarantee the deposit? Hardly. As far as the risk premium is concerned, it is in this law and in the applicable law, and it amounts to 0.1% of total deposits. What are we in for now? A maximum of 0.1%, and that means it can be less. It's not that discreet. Why? Because not all banks are the same, and risk analysis is the basis of everything and you know exactly how much one bank has capital adequateness. No one will convince me that the total or same risk is when one bank has a capital equivalent of 12% and the other bank is 35%. It seems to me that she's a bank whose capital adequacy is 12% more risky after all. As for the revision of the financial reports, whether one auditor should be three or five years old, to review those financial reports, I would just say that we have agreed with the Accounting Act. In the current system, the bank had one treatment or financial sector, and the economy had another treatment, legal persons. Now, also, legal persons, businesses, companies, can use the same auditor's services for five years. In this way, we just leveled the treatment of economic actors in our country. There were also a lot of objections, criticism, at the expense of forming "Bridge Bank" or so-called "Bridge Bank". temporary banks. The goal of its formation is not to make the most expensive case. So, just if someone estimates that by forming a bank like this, they're going to save funds for the Deposit Insurance Fund, that it's cheaper, it's forming. Why is she forming? Why isn't this job done by the Deposit Insurance Agency? Because it's intended to be sold. You know how to sell Bridge Bank? It goes into bankruptcy that bad part, and that good part's being sold. Where are those sales money going? Well, of course, in the Republic of Serbia's budget. That is precisely why they are excluded from sanctions from members of the governance body of Bridge Bank, because it is professional management and in 90% of the cases this Bridge Bank ends in bankruptcy. I'm running off for a bad deed and selling that good deed. Why punish the professional management who did a good job and reduced the state's potential costs? So, once again, let me repeat whether anyone really thinks you shouldn't guarantee savings deposits. Are we building trust or not? Does anyone think it's always possible to prevent a troubled bank from appearing, is it possible? It's normal for a bank to be deprived of work permits, companies to die and be born, so to banks. Does anyone suggest that when a bank is closed or when a work permit is taken away that insurance deposits should not be paid off? Once again, I say all the changes are in order for the costs to be lower and that there is no case that is most expensive for the state, which is the payment of the secured deposit. I'd like to stop here and thank you all for today's debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-25-0.u47722	Thank you, Madam Minister. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. In voting day, the National Assembly will decide on draft laws in principle, detail and generality. Since the National Assembly has completed a debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint on 30 November 2010, starting at 10.00 p.m. as the day for voting on the agenda points of the fifth session of the second regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. I thank the MPs, and I think we deserve commendation for our endurance, and especially Mrs. Minister, truly, quite frankly. Dear Members, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 124 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the National Assembly session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the Members of Parliament to insert their identification cards into the Members of the Electronic System. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 129 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly I would like to inform them that they have been prevented from attending MPs Radoslav Mojsilović and Miroslav Markicevic. Since the National Assembly has held a debate on all points of the agenda, we are moving to a decision. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the 2010 Act on the budget of the Republic of Serbia with proposals for decisions to give consent to amendments and amendments to the financial plans for 2010, the Republic of the Pension and Invalidity Insurance Fund and the National Employment Service. Before we move to a decision on the draft amending and supplementing law on the 2010 budget of the Republic of Serbia, I remind you that on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly adopts the budget by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, we move on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2010, in principle. Of the 129 MPs, 128 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I remind you that MP Milisav Petronijevic, written on 25 November 2010, withdrew the amendment with the correction, which he submitted to Article 4. Proposal for a law, and MP Branko Ljiljak, written on 25 November 2010, withdrew an amendment to Article 4. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Of the 129 MPs none for. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Government has submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The Financial Committee has adopted this amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 128 is in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted together to the 1st amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for this amendment. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The MPs Jovan Palalic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted together to the 1st amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for this amendment. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 2nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Of the 129 MPs none for. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Government has submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The Financial Committee has adopted this amendment. Please make a statement. The adoption of the amendment requires 126. Of the 129 MPs, 128 is in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The People's MPs Jovan Palalic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted to the 2nd amendment together. Of the 129 MPs, no one for this amendment. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted the 2nd amendment together. Of the 129 MPs, no one for this amendment. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The People's MP, Milet Poscurica, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Zeljko Tomic and Milan Lapčević submitted together to the 3rd amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for this amendment. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Both MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted to the 3rd amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for this amendment. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for this amendment. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The government has submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. The Financial Committee has adopted this amendment. Please make a statement. In order for the amendment to be accepted, 126 MPs are required to vote in favour of the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, 127 voted in favour of the amendment. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted to article 4 by MP Veroljub Arsic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic to Article 4th of the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. At Section 3, 14, 15, 16, 17, 19 and 23, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapcevic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Budimirovic to article 4th. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. 2/1 MO/MS 10,20-10,30 The amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic to Article 4 of the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Vuceta Toskovic to Article 4th of the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic to Article 4 of the 3rd and 21st paragraphs. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted to Article 4 by MP Stefan Zankov. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Miladanovic to Article 4th of the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 4 of Sections 3 and 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Dimitrijevic Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Riza Halimi to section 3rd and 21st. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, five voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Milorad Buh, to Section 4th and 16th. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th Amendment was submitted to article 4 by MP Mico Rogovic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic to section 4th and 61st. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 4, the 14th Amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Đuric submitted the amendments to Sections 14 and 17 together. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic to Sections 14 and 23. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, eight voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The Financial Committee shall, on the basis of Article 157(6). Rules of Procedure, amendment to Article 4 of Sections 14 and 25. I'm putting it to a vote. It's an amendment to the Finance Committee. Of the 129 MPs, 112 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic to section 4th and 28th. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, ten voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 4, the 15th Amendment was submitted by MP Otto Kishmarton. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 4th of the 16th Amendment, MP Zeljko Tomic submitted. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On page 4, the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic-Markovic to section 4th and 17th. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic to section 4, sections 16, 17 and 19. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 17th Amendment was submitted to article 4 by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 17th Amendment was submitted to article 4 by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted to article 4 by MP Sasa Dujovic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, ten voted. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic to section 4 of the 21st and 33rd. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 4 of the 22nd Amendment, National MP Milet Poscurica submitted. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Mijatovic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 4 of the 23rd Amendment, MP Milan Knezevic submitted. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 4th of the 24th Amendment, MP Susana Grubjesic submitted. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, three voted for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th Sections 28 and 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Olena Papuga. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, six voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 29th Amendment was submitted to article 4 by MP Sasa Maksimovic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted to article 4 of the amendment by MP Dragan Colic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 4th, the 38th Amendment was submitted by MP Gojko Radic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th edition of the 48th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 4th, the 56th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. 3/1 BD/LjL 10,30-10,40 Members of the 5th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zeljko Tomic and Milan Lapčević. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted the 7th amendment together. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. I remind you it's article 7. The bill envisions that the law enters into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 160(5) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, laws and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of their publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are, in particular, reasonable reasons for this, established when they are adopted. In the light of the draft law, the Government stated that the particularly justified reasons for the early entry into force of this law consisted in the need to ensure the smooth functioning of state authorities and organisations. Therefore, in order to finance the exercise of the rights and duties of the Republic established by the Constitution and by law, it is necessary to allow for the smooth execution of expenditure. Otherwise, the regular dynamic of the implementation of the expenditure of the Republic would be questioned and thus the exercise of the functions and responsibilities of the Republic. The financing of pensions and social contributions would be particularly threatened. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Of the 129 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that by majority of the votes of the MPs, the National Assembly has found that there are particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Dear People's MPs, I find that several amendments to the text of the draft law have been adopted, some of which require technical harmonisation of certain provisions of the bill with the amendments adopted. Namely, pursuant to Article 5. Budgetary system law, budget revenue and income must be balanced with budgetary expenditures and expenditure. Some of the amendments have made changes in the part of the budgets governing expenditure and expenditure, which has not been followed by appropriate technical harmonisation of the provisions governing revenue and budget receipts. With that in mind, I suggest that the National Assembly Service, before the publication of the law, in co-operation with the appropriate government service, carry out this technical harmonisation of the text of the law with the amendments adopted. I am putting this motion to the vote and I am asking the Members of Parliament to plead with him. Of the 129 MPs, 128 voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Republic of Serbia's 2010 budget, as a whole. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, all 129 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly adopted the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Republic of Serbia's 2010 budget by majority of the votes of all MPs. Since we adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the 2010 Budget of the Republic of Serbia, we move to a decision on the proposals for decisions that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia gives agreement to amend and supplement financial plans for 2010: the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance and the National Employment Service. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to give consent to the 2010 Decision on amendments and additions to the Financial Plan of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, all 129 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I put to the vote the proposal for a decision to give consent to the 2010 Decision on amendments and additions to the National Employment Service Financial Plan. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 128 voted. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent in the 2010 Decision on amendments and additions to the National Employment Service's financial plan. We move to the second item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SPECIES OF THE BANKS Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Bank Act, in principle. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 128 voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Karsic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 2 of the amendment in the same text, a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group, Serbia and the People's MP Milorad Buh, submitted. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 4th of the amendment in the same text, a group of 21 MPs from the Prosperity Group submitted Serbia and MP Vladan Jeremic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 6 of the amendment in the same text, a group of 21 MPs from the Prosperity Group submitted Serbia and MP Dejan Mirovic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 8 of the amendment in the same text, a group of 21 MPs from the Prosperity Group submitted Serbia and MP Boris Aleksic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 14th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Karsic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 14th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. 4/1 GI/IP 10.40-10.50 The 17th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 18th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Popovic, Arsen Djuric and Jovan Palalic submitted together to the 32nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Popovic, Arsen Djuric and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted together to the 33rd amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 39th Amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted to the 40th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Popovic, Arsen Djuric and Zeljko Tomic together submitted the 43rd amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on amendments and additions to the Bank Act in general. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 128 for. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Bank Act. We move to the third item of the agenda – Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on the bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and companies as the National Assembly has carried out a review of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on the bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and insurance companies, in principle. Please make a statement. Of 129 MPs, 124 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. The People's MP Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Bank's bankruptcy and liquidation and insurance companies as a whole. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 128 for. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending and supplementing the Banks and Insurance Companies' bankruptcy and liquidation laws. We move to the fourth item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Security of Depositary Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act, in principle. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 128 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. 5/1 AH/TJ 10.50-11.00 The 8th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Group of Serbia. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs none for. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs none for. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act, in general. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 127 were declared. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Deposit Insurance Act We declare on the proposal for an amending and supplementing law on the Agency for Security of Deposits. The National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular and we move on to a decision. I'm putting the bill in principle for a plea. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 125 came out. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that the MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Đuric, in writing, withdrew the amendments they submitted together to Article 9. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs none for. The amendment was not accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Boris Aleksic submitted to the 4th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs none for. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs none for. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th amendment was submitted to the same text by the People's MPs Milorad Buha and a group of 21 MPs from the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs none for. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted to the same text by MPs Aleksandar Martinovic and a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group, Serbia. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Deposit Insurance Agency, in general. Of the 129 MPs, 128 were declared. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Agency Act. We move to the 6th item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements on the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financial Financing. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular and we move on to a decision. I put to the vote the Bill on Amendments and Supplements on the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorists, in principle. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 127 were declared. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Please make a statement. Of 129 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 3rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs none for. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted to the 6th Amendment by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 8th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting on a vote on the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing in general. I would like to make a statement from 129 MPs, for a statement of 128. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorists. We move to the 7th item of the agenda - PROPOSAL OF THE LAW OF DURING THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA TO USE EXPORT DEVELOPMENT CANAD ON THE DESCRIPTION OF RTB BOR – THE RUDAR AND SOLUTIONAL BASEN BOR D.O.O.O. IN RESTRUCTURATION. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular and we move on to a decision. I remind you, Article 105 is point 4 point 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, scheduled for the National Assembly to decide most of the votes of all MPs on the laws governing public borrowing. I am putting to the vote the draft law on granting the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of EXPORT DEVELOPMENT CANADA under the responsibility of RTB Bor – the group of mining-topic base BOR d.o.o. in restructuring, in principle. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 128 were declared. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on the amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Please make a statement. Of 129 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendment, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on granting the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of EXPORT DEVELOPMENT CANADA under the responsibility of RTB Bor – the group of mining-topic base BOR d.o.o. in restructuring, in general. Of the 129 MPs, for 129. I find that the National Assembly adopted a bill on granting a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of EXPORT DEVELOPMENT CANADA under the responsibility of RTB Bor – Groups of the mining-topic base BOR d.o.o. in restructuring. 6/1 AD/CG 11.00-11.05 We move to a vote on proposals for a law on ratification of international agreements, under points 8 to 12 of the agenda. Since we are now moving to a decision on proposals for the law on the approval of international contracts, or agreements, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. I also remind you that no amendments have been submitted to those draft laws, so the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 160(3), will be submitted. Rules of Procedure, on these bill proposals, vote only in general. We're moving on to a decision. We move to the 8th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on Loan for Credit for the PUBLIC ASSESSMENT OF THE MOST LAND – FIGHT WITH CONTRACTING CODES, BETWEEN THE Government OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERVE AS A POSITION AND KINESKE EXPORST – I am putting the bank's imporator to vote on the draft law in general. Please make a statement. To adopt the bill, 126 MPs are required. Of the 129 MPs, 127 voted. I find that by the majority of the votes of all the MPs, the National Assembly has passed the bill. We move to the 9th item of the agenda – Proposal for a COURT OF CONSERVATION OF THE GOVERNMENT BOOK BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND THE EUROPEAN REFERENCE AND I am putting the bill in question to the vote. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 127 voted. I find that by the majority of the votes of all the MPs, the National Assembly has passed the bill. We move to the 10th item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON THE CONSERVATION OF THE GOVERNMENT BOOK (SERBIA Railways – Corridor X) BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND THE EUROPEAN TERMINATION BANK I am putting to the vote the draft law in general. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 128 voted. I find that by the majority of the votes of all the MPs, the National Assembly has passed the bill. We move to the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW TO APPROVAL OF THE GOVERNMENT BOOK BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF SERVE AND THE EUROPEAN INVESTIGATION BANK I am putting to the vote the bill in general. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 129 voted in favour. I find that by the majority of the votes of all the MPs, the National Assembly has passed the bill. We move to the 12th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Free Trade between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan I am putting the proposal for a bill in general. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that by the majority of the votes of all the MPs, the National Assembly has passed the bill. We move to the 13th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, since the National Assembly has carried out the search and the transition to decision, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 105(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the majority of the votes of all MPs, decides on the selection of members of the National Assembly board. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 128 voted. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision-making by them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the fifth session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. (The session is closed at 11.05 p.m. )
