ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-23-0.u47243	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 133 MPs attend the session. However, I remind you that Article 88 is Article 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that the quorum for the work of the Assembly in voting days exists if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. In order to establish the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, it has been established that there are 128 MPs in the hall, or 128 MPs, and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I am notifying the absence of the MPs. They were prevented from attending MPs Borislav Prelevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Since the National Assembly has completed a search on all points of the agenda, we move on to a decision. First item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Health Protection Law Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular the transition to decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the health care law, in principle. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, 127 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic and together by MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic. I'd like to make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The People's MP, Milet Poscurica, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The People's MP Milan Knezevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Mijatovic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dusanka Plecevic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment has not been accepted to Article 6 of the amendment has been submitted by the People's Parliament of the People's Republic of Radet, please state our name. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Paja Momcilov and together by MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting the vote to vote on the draft law amending and supplementing the health care law as a whole. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. Of the 129 MPs, 128 voted. I find that the National Assembly has passed a vote on the Bill of Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act. We will now make clear on the second item of the agenda of the Proposal for a PLAN FOR THE DURING OF THE SERVE PROTECTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA After the National Assembly has carried out a single search, we move on to a decision. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision on a plan to develop the health care of the Republic of Serbia, in principle. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the motion for a decision, in principle. As we have adopted the decision in principle, we move to a decision on amendments submitted to the Health Protection Development Plan of the Republic of Serbia which forms an integral part of the proposal for a decision. On Chapter I, subtitled "Capacity", the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Chapter I, subtitled "Deployment of Financial Resources and Payment of Service Providers", the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Lazic, Milica Vujic-Markovic and Donka Banovic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 115 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. 2/1 MP/CG 11,20-11.30 On Chapter II, Chapter A, point 1, subpoint 1.3, the amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic-Markovic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Chapter II, Chapter A, point 2, point 2.2.1, the amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 110 voted for this amendment. I understand the amendment has been accepted. On Chapter II, Chapter A, point 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Elvira Kovac. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, four voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. On Chapter II, Chapter A, point 2, point 2.2.1, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Lazic. Please make a statement. Of 129 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. On Chapter II, Chapter B, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Chapter II, Chapter B, the amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision on a plan to develop the health care of the Republic of Serbia, in general. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. Of the 129 MPs, 127 voted yes. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision on a plan to develop the health care of the Republic of Serbia. Moving to point 3. – Proposal for a Law on the Transparent Plan of the Republic of Serbia since 2010. Until 2020. A year. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I remind you, Article 105 is point 3. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia envisions that the laws governing the development plan and the spatial plan be decided by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I am voting on the draft law on the Space Plan of the Republic of Serbia from 2010 to 2020, in principle. Of the 129 MPs, 128 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has accepted the bill, in principle. I remind you that MP Siniša Stamenkovic, by written means, has withdrawn the amendment to Chapter VI, Section 3 of Subsection 3.1, Section 9. The spatial plan, which was submitted on 14 October and the correction of the amendment to Chapter VI, section 3 of Subsection 3.1. A spatial plan, submitted on October 18th. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction adopted the amendment. This amendment can only be adopted with 126 votes at least. Of the 129 MPs, 127 voted in favour of this amendment. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has accepted the amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction adopted the amendment. All these amendments need, if we want to adopt them, at least 126 votes. Of the 129 MPs, 127 voted in favour of this amendment. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. Gentlemen, all amendments can be adopted with at least 126 votes. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 127 voted in favour of the amendment. I find that the National Assembly has accepted, most of the votes, this amendment. The 9th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 130 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction adopted the amendment. Please make a statement. The amendment may be adopted if at least 126 MPs vote. Of the 130 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I understand we've adopted the amendment. On head and section one. The spatial plan, based on Article 157(6). Rules of Procedure, the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Urbanism and Construction. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 127 voted in favour of the amendment. We accepted the amendment. On Chapter IV, Section 1 of Subsection 1.1. The spatial plan, based on Article 157(6). Rules of Procedure, the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Urbanism and Construction. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 127 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. On Chapter V, Section 1, Subsection 1.4. The spatial plan, based on Article 157(6). Rules of Procedure, the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Urbanism and Construction. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. I'm asking for a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 127 voted in favour of the amendment. I understand the amendment has been accepted. On Chapter V, Section 2, Subsection 2.2. With a spatial plan, the amendment with a correction was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, five voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. On Chapter V, Section 2, Subsection 2.3. With a spatial plan, the amendment with a correction was submitted by MP Kenan Hajdarevic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. 3/1 VS/MĆ 11,30-11,40 In the name of Chapter 6 and Chapter 7 of the spatial plan and the names of sections and subsections within those chapters, the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Urbanism and Construction. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, 127 voted yes. The amendment has been accepted. On chapter 2, Subsection 2.1, the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Urbanism and Construction. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 128 is in favour. The amendment has been accepted. On Chapter 6, Section 2, Subsection 2.1 of the spatial plan of amendments with correction was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, seven voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. On Chapter 6, Section 2, Subsection 2.2 of the spatial plan pursuant to Article 157(6). Rules of Procedure, the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Urbanism and Construction. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs for the amendment, 127 voted. The amendment has been accepted. On Chapter 6, Section 2, Subsection 2.2, the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Urbanism and Construction. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 128 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. On Chapter 6, Section 2, Subsection 2.2, the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Urbanism and Construction. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, it's 129 MPs. The amendment has been accepted. On Chapter 6, Section 2, Subsection 2.2 of the spatial plan, the amendments were submitted by the Committee on Urbanism and Construction. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs for the amendment, 126 voted. The amendment has been accepted. On Chapter 6, Section 3, Subsection 3.1, the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Urbanism and Construction. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs for the amendment, 127 voted. The amendment has been accepted. On chapter 6, Section 3, Subsection 3.1 of the spatial plan, the amendment was submitted by MP Đuro Peric. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have accepted an amendment with a correction. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 127 voted in favour of this amendment. The amendment has been accepted. On Chapter 6, Section 3, Subsection 3.1 of the spatial plan of amendments with correction was submitted by Sinisa Stamenkovic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have accepted an amendment with a correction. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 128 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. The Committee on Urbanism and Construction has submitted an amendment to Chapter 6, Section 3, Subsection 3.2. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 126 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. On Chapter 7, Section 1, Subsection 1.3, the amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 total, eight voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. On Chapter 7, Section 1, Subsection 1.5, the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Urbanism and Construction. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 126 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. On Chapter 7, Section 1, Subsection 1.5, the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Urbanism and Construction. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 126 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. On chapter 7, section 1, Subsection 1.5, the amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have accepted an amendment with a correction. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 126 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. On chapter 7, Section 2, Subsection 2.2, the amendment was submitted by MP Zika Gojkovic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 128 voted. The amendment has been accepted. On Chapter 7, Section 2, Subsection 2.2, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted. The amendment was not accepted. On chapter 7, Section 2, subsection 2.2, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. On chapter 7, Section 2, Subsection 2.2, the amendment with correction was submitted by MP Kenan Hajdarevic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. On chapter 7, Section 2, Subsection 2.2, the amendment with correction was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have accepted an amendment with a correction. Of the 129 MPs, 127 voted. The amendment has been accepted. 4/1 MO/BJ 11,40-11,50 in Chapter VII Section 2. Subsection 2.3. The spatial plan of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Kenan Hajdarevic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, one voted yes. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Chapter VII of Section 2. Subsection 2.3. The spatial plan of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, nine voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Chapter VII of Section 2. Subsection 2.4. The spatial plan, based on Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Urbanism and Construction, submitted an amendment. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 128 voted yes. I understand the amendment has been accepted. On Chapter VII of Section 2. Subsection 2.6 of the amendment was tabled by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have accepted an amendment with a correction. Gentlemen, to vote on the amendment, it requires at least 126 votes. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 128 voted yes. I understand the amendment has been accepted. On Chapter VII of Section 2. Subsection 2.8 of the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Urbanism and Construction. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 126 voted yes. I understand the amendment has been accepted. In Chapter VII, Section 3. Subsection 3.1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vuk Dincic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, five voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. In Chapter VII, Section 3. Subsection 3.1. The amendments were submitted by MP Bojan Kostresh. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, one voted yes. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. In Chapter VII, Section 3. Subsection 3.2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojana Stanojevic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction have accepted an amendment with a correction. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 129 voted in favour. I understand the amendment has been accepted. On Chapter IX Section 2. Subsection 2.2 of the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Urbanism and Construction. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 128 voted in favour. I understand the amendment has been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am voting on the draft law on the Space Plan of the Republic of Serbia from 2010 to 2020, in general. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 128 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly adopted the draft law on the Space Plan of the Republic of Serbia from 2010 to 2020 by majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to item 4 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completings on Chemicals Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Chemical Act, in principle. Of the 129 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MP Radoslav Milovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and environmental protection committee accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, 124 voted in favour. I understand we've accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, one voted yes. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 4th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Siniša Stamenkovic submitted to the 10th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, five voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. 5/1 BD/VK 11,50-12,00 National MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic together submitted the 10th amendment. The government and environmental protection committee accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, 116 for. I understand the amendment has been accepted. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic. Please make a statement. Of 129 MPs, 15 for. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by the MP Radisa Ilic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic and MP Radoslav Milovanovic. The government and environmental protection committee accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 118 for. I understand the amendment has been accepted. The 11th amendment was filed by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The People's MP, Milorad Krstin, submitted to the 12th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 13th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Chemical Act in general. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 128 voted for this proposal. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Chemical Act. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF BIOCID PRODUCTS Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Law in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Biocidal Products Act, in principle. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 128 voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill. National MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banović and Dr Nikola Lazic, written on 20 October 2010, withdrew the amendment with a correction to Article 17. It's a bill of law. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic. Please make a statement. Of 129 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. The People's MP, Milorad Krstin, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The People's MP, Milorad Krstin, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic. The government and environmental protection committee have accepted the amendment with the correction. Please make a statement. Of 129 MPs, 124 for. The amendment has been accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Please make a statement. Of 129 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th Amendment in the same text was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic and MP Radoslav Milovanovic. The government and environmental protection committee have accepted the amendment with the correction. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 118 for. The amendment has been accepted. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 9th Amendment were submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Biocidal Products Act in general. Please make a statement. Of 129 MPs, 126 for. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Biocidal Products Act. 6/1 GI/MS 12,00-12,10 We move to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on the strategic impact assessment of the environment. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, we move on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Strategic Environmental Impact Assessment Act, in principle. Please plead. Of the 129 MPs, 123 are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Please plead. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 4th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Please plead. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Please plead. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Please plead. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Please plead. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Please plead. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Strategic Impact Assessment Act on the environment, in general. Please plead. Of the 129 MPs, 128 for. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Impact Assessment on the Environment. We move to the 7th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LAW TO PROTECT FROM THE LIFE CENTER Since the National Assembly has conducted a review of the Bill's proposal in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the protection of noise in the environment, in principle. Please plead. Of the 129 MPs, 126 are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Please plead. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Donka Banovic submitted the 2nd amendment together. Please plead. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP Radisa Ilic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and environmental protection committee accepted the amendment. Please plead. Of the 129 MPs, 116 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Please plead. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Please plead. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Please plead. Of 128 MPs, one for. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Radoslav Milovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and environmental protection committee accepted the amendment. Please plead. Of 128 MPs, 116 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 4th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Please plead. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Please plead. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović Please make your statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 9th amendment. The government and environmental protection committee accepted the amendment. Please plead. Of 128 MPs, 118 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Please plead. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the protection of noise in the environment, in general. Please plead. Of 128 MPs, 124 for. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the laws on the protection of noise in the environment. We move to the 8th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Nature. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, we move on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Nature Protection Act, in principle. Please plead. Of 128 MPs, 121 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. National MP Ljiljana Zdravkovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. Please plead. Of the 129 MPs, 117 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. 7/1 AH/LjL 12,10-12,20 The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Dimitrijevic. Please plead. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 4th amendment. Please plead. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic-Markovic. Please plead. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Ljiljana Zdravkovic submitted to the 5th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. Please plead. Of the 128 MPs, for 117. The amendment has been accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Please plead. Of 128 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Please plead. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 13th Amendment was submitted in the same text by MP Vitomir Plužarevic and joint MPs Milica Vojić-Marković, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banović and Nikola Lazic. Please plead. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Environmental Protection has tabled an amendment to Article 13. It's a bill of law. The government has accepted the amendment. Please plead. Of the 129 MPs, for 117. The amendment has been accepted. National MP Ljiljana Zdravkovic submitted to the 15th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. Please plead. Of the 129 MPs, for 118. The amendment has been accepted. National MP Ljiljana Zdravkovic submitted to the 16th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. Please plead. Of the 129 MPs, for 120. The amendment has been accepted. The National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Nikola Lazic together submitted the 24th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Donka Banovic. Please plead. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. An amendment proposing the addition of a new member of 26a. together, MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic submitted. Please plead. Of the 129 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 28th Amendment were submitted by MP Radisa Ilic and joint MPs Nikola Lazic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Please plead. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 31st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Please plead. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic-Markovic. Please plead. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. Please plead. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Environmental Protection, submitted an amendment with a correction to Article 32. It's a bill of law. Please plead. Of the 129 MPs, for 120. The amendment has been accepted. The 34th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic, Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Please plead. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 34th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Please plead. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Ljiljana Zdravkovic submitted to the 38th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. Please plead. Of the 129 MPs, for 111. The amendment has been accepted. National MP Ljiljana Zdravkovic submitted to the 43rd amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. Please plead. Of the 129 MPs, for 111. The amendment has been accepted. National MP Dejan Radenkovic submitted to the 45th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. Please plead. Of the 129 MPs, for 111. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 45th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Please plead. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 48th amendment. Please plead. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Milan Dimitrijevic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic together submitted the 49th amendment. Please plead. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 50th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Please plead. Of the 129 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. The 56th Amendment with the correction was filed by MP Ljiljana Zdravkovic. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, for 120. The amendment has been accepted. National MP Ljiljana Zdravkovic submitted to the 59th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. Please plead. Of the 129 MPs, for 122. The amendment has been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Nature Protection Act, in general. Of 129 MPs, for 125. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Nature Protection Act. 8/1 AD/CG 12,20-12,30 We move to the 9th item of the agenda – Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on waste management. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Waste Management Act, in principle. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 122 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 6th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Milovanovic. The government and environmental protection committee accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, 120 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, amendment to Article 18, has been submitted by the Committee on the Protection of the Environment. The government has accepted this amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, 112 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. On Article 18, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Waste Management Act as a whole. Please plead. Of the 129 MPs, 123 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and amendments to the Waste Management Act. We move to the 10th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Meteorological and HYDROlogic Activity. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the motion for a bill on meteorological and hydrological activity, in principle. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic to Article 5. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the title above Articles 8 and 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. 9/1 MP/MĆ 12.30-12.40 The Committee on the Environment has tabled an amendment to Article 18. The government has accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, 117 voted in favour of the amendment of the Committee. The amendment has been accepted. The Committee on the Environment has tabled an amendment to Article 20. The government has accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, 121 is in favour. The amendment has been accepted. National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted to the 22nd amendment. The government and environmental protection committee accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, 110 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The government and environmental protection committee accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 112 voted for the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. The 30th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, one MP voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 45th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th Amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. The government and environmental protection committee have accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, 116 is in favour. The amendment has been accepted. National MP Momir Markovic submitted to the 51st amendment. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 52nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. The government and environmental protection committee have accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 118 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the motion for a bill on meteorological and hydrological activity in general. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, 119 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on meteorological and hydrological activity. We move to the 11th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS ON TURISM Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act, in principle. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, the draft law, in principle, voted 122. I find that we have accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, one is in favour. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 114 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Mirko Munjic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The People's MP, Marina Toman, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Zoran Popovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 2nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th amendment, with a correction, was filed by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia parliamentary group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 6th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. 10/1 VS/BJ 12,40-12,50 The 7th Amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Marina Toman. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by the MP Radisa Ilic. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 112 voted yes. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 8th amendment. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th amendment was filed by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 112 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Arsen Djuric and Aleksandar Pejcic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was filed by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 12th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 102 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Arsen Djuric and Aleksandar Pejcic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Arsen Djuric and Aleksandar Pejcic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 18th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs voted 109. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 19th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Đuro Peric. Of the 128 MPs, four voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zoran Kasalovic submitted the 20th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 10 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government has submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. The Committee has not accepted this amendment. Of the 128 MPs, one voted yes. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, on Article 20 of the amendment, were submitted by the Committee on Trade and Tourism. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 120 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond submitted the 20th amendment together. Of the 128 MPs, the vote was six. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marko Milenkovic submitted the 20th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Arsen Djuric. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milan Dimitrijevic submitted the 20th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 23rd Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 116 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The People's MP Gordan Rajkov submitted to the 38th Amendment. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 97 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. 11/1 MO/VK 12,50-13,00 The 44th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 45th Amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 51st Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Arsen Djuric submitted to the 51st amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 52nd amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 56th Amendment was submitted by the Government. The Committee on Trade and Tourism accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 115 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act in general. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. Of the 127 MPs, 119 voted in favour of the proposal. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Tourism Act. We move to the 12th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Employment and Safety Act since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Employment and Insurance Act in principle. Of the 127 MPs, 110 voted in favour of the bill. I understand we've passed the bill. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. On the 1st amendment, in the same text, a group of 21 MPs from the Prosperity Group submitted Serbia and MP Nemanja Sarovic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The MPs Aleksandar Pejcic and Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 1st Amendment in the same text. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic and Lidija Vukicevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Zoran Popovic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. 12/1 BD/MS 13,00-13,10 The First Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The MP Vesna Maric submitted to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Branimir Djokic submitted to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Milorad Krstin submitted to the 1st Amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Marina Toman submitted to the 1st Amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Gordana Pop Lazic submitted to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Ognjen Mihajlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Skribic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Vladan Jeremic submitted to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. 13/1 GI/LjL 13,10-13,20 The First Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Please plead. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Ljubisa Petkovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Please plead. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The People's MP Milan M. Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. Please plead. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Please plead. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Please plead. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 2nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please plead. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please plead. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Employment and Insurance Act in general. Please plead. Of the 128 MPs, for 119. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Employment and Insurance Act in case of unemployment. We move to the 13th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Agency for Security and Financial Export of the Republic of Serbia After the National Assembly has conducted a search in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Agency for Insurance and Financing of Exports of the Republic of Serbia, in principle. Please plead. Of the 128 MPs, for 123. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Please plead. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Please plead. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Please plead. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Please plead. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Please plead. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Please plead. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Please plead. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Please plead. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Please plead. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The People's MP Marina Toman submitted to the 1st Amendment. Please plead. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Please plead. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Please plead. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Please plead. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Please plead. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Please plead. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The People's MP Milorad Krstin submitted to the 1st Amendment. Please plead. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please plead. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 1st amendment. Please plead. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Please plead. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Branimir Djokic submitted to the 1st amendment. Please plead. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The MP Vesna Maric submitted to the 1st amendment. Please plead. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Please plead. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Please plead. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Please plead. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Please plead. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. 14/1 AH/IP 13,20-13,30 The First Amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Ljubisa Petkovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. The MP Gordana Pop-Lazic submitted to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Milan Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Ognjen Mihajlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Vladan Jeremic submitted to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. The 2nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Agency for Insurance and Financing of Exports of the Republic of Serbia, in general. Please plead. Of the 128 MPs, for 121. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Insurance and Financing Agency for Exports of the Republic of Serbia. 16/1 MP/BJ 13,40-13,50 The People's MP Marina Toman submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The People's MP, Milorad Krstin, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Dobrislav Prelic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Branimir Djokic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The People's MP Dusanka Plecevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The People's MP Radisa Ilic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Dejan Mirovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Dragan Todorovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. The People's MP Milan M. Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Milan Avramovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Bojan Mladenovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Radica Jocic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Marko Milenkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. The People's MP, Suleiman Spaho, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. The People's MP, Vlad Milojkovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Mirko Munjic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. 17/1 VS/VK 13,50-14,00 Members of the 3rd amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 5th amendment were submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 6th Amendment were submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 7th Amendment were submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic, Milica Vojic-Markovic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 8th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic, Milica Vojic-Markovic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia in general. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. Of 127 MPs, 124 for. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. We move on to the 15th point of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON THE TRANSPORT OF A DANCY TREAT After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting the draft law on the transport of dangerous cargo in principle. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. Of the 127 MPs, the draft law was voted on in principle by 113. Since we've accepted this proposal, we're moving on to a decision in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Milan Avramovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 9th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Nikola Savic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 12a be added after article 12. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 19th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. 18/1 MO/MS 14,00-14,10 The National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted to the 20th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Please make a statement. Proposer Milutin Mrkonjic, Minister of Infrastructure, accepted the amendment during the review of the draft law on details. Of the 128 MPs, 114 MPs voted for the amendment. I understand the amendment has been accepted. National MP Dejan Mirovic submitted the amendment to Article 37. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic to Article 37. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 44th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Proposer Milutin Mrkonjic, the minister of infrastructure, accepted the amendment during the review of the draft law on details. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, 11 voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 46th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 48th amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The Government and the Transport and Communications Committee accepted this amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, 115 voted in favour. I understand the amendment has been accepted. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 51st amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Zoran Krasic submitted to the 55th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Zoran Popovic submitted to the 69th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The Government has submitted to Article 74 of the amendment. The Transport and Connection Committee has accepted this amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, 117 voted in favour. I understand the amendment has been accepted. The Government has submitted to Article 75 of the amendment. The Transport and Connection Committee has accepted this amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, 118 voted in favour. I understand the amendment has been accepted. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 80th Amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting a vote on the bill on the transport of dangerous cargo, in general. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, 119 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the transport of dangerous cargo. We move to the 16th item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON DEBT AND FONDATION Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I'm putting the draft law on responsibilities and foundations to the vote, in principle. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, 122 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle, I remind you that the amendments were withdrawn by the MPs: Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic on Article 1 and Article 2(2), which together submitted on 14 October and the correction of those amendments submitted on 15 October; Milisav Petronijevic on Article 3 of Articles 1 and 3, Sasa Dujovic on Article 12, which is added to Article 4, Konstantin Arsenović on Articles 24 and 25 and together Natasa Vuković and Vesna Marjanovic on Articles 25, 68 and 69. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. At the title of the bill and all the members in which the word "fundation" appears, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Zoran Kasalovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, nine voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Aleksandra Jankovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Radoslav Mojsilovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Lazic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 3rd amendment, with an amendment of 2 November, was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, nine voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 3rd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic and MP Milica Vojic-Markovic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. 19/1 BD/LjL 14,10-14,20 Members of the 3rd Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Laslo Varga. Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. During the search in particular, the proposer's representative accepted the amendment. The Committee on Culture and Information also accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, 115 for. The amendment has been accepted. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please plead. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please plead. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Please plead. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Please plead. Of 128 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. Please plead. Of 128 MPs, 11 for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. Please plead. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Articles 4 and 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Please plead. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Articles 4 and 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please plead. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Nikola Lazic. Please plead. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Zoran Kasalovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Please plead. Of 128 MPs, 11 for. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please plead. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic and joint MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Please plead. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Mojsilovic. Please plead. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Milenic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. Please plead. Of 128 MPs, 108 for. The amendment has been accepted. The 8th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by the MPs Natasa Vukovic and Vesna Marjanovic, MP Aleksandra Jankovic, MP Zoran Kasalović and joint MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. During the search in particular, the proposer's representative accepted the amendment. The Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. Please plead. Of 128 MPs, 112 for. The amendment has been accepted. National MP Zoran Kasalovic submitted to the 9th amendment. Please plead. Of 128 MPs, ten for. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. Please plead. Of 128 MPs, 106 for. The amendment has been accepted. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. Please plead. Of 128 MPs, seven for. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please plead. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Simo Vukovic. Please plead. Of 128 MPs, 15 for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Simo Vukovic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. Please plead. Of 128 MPs, 114 for. The amendment has been accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please plead. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 12th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. Please plead. Of 128 MPs, ten for. The amendment was not accepted. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic and joint MPs Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Please plead. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 12th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Nikola Lazic and MP Radoslav Mojsilovic. Please plead. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Milenic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. Please plead. Of 128 MPs, 117 for. The amendment has been accepted. The 17th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please plead. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 17th Amendment with the correction was brought together by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. The Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment with the correction. Please plead. Of 128 MPs, 119 for. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Milenic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. Please plead. Of 128 MPs, 107 for. The amendment has been accepted. The 19th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please plead. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. 20/1 GI/IP 14,20-14.30 On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms Radet. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 24th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 25th Amendment was submitted by MP Simo Vukovic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 109 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Milenic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 108 for. The amendment has been accepted. The 25th amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Nikola Lazic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 26th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 28th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 30th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Milenic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 110 for. The amendment has been accepted. The 30th amendment was submitted by MP Susan Grubjesic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 106 for. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by MP Simo Vukovic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 105 for. The amendment has been accepted. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic and Vesna Marjanovic together submitted to the 31st amendment. The Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 107 for. The amendment has been accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic to Article 33. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. The 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Milenic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, three are in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 34th Amendment, with the correction, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Nikola Lazic and MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 34th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 13 for. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted together to the 34th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Simo Vukovic submitted to the 34th amendment. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 112 for. The amendment has been accepted. National MP Zoran Krasic submitted to the 35th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 25th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Nikola Lazic and MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 35th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 12 for. The amendment was not accepted. The 35th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic and Vesna Marjanovic submitted together to the 36th amendment. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, 108 for. The amendment has been accepted. The 36th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, 16 for. The amendment was not accepted. The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 37th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 37th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, 12 for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 38th Amendment was submitted by MP Munir Poturak. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, 106 for. The amendment has been accepted. The 39th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, 104 for. The amendment has been accepted. 21/1 AH/CG 14,30-14,40 pursuant to Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the 39th Amendment were submitted by the Committee on Culture and Information. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, for 110. The amendment has been accepted. National MP Nikola Žutic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 40a be added after article 40a. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Articles 41 and 41 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 41st amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, for 103. The amendment has been accepted. The title above Articles 42 and 42 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Kasalovic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, for eight. The amendment was not accepted. The 43rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 45th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 45th Amendment was submitted by MP Simo Vukovic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, for 109. The amendment has been accepted. The 45th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please plead 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 45th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Milenic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, 11 for. The amendment was not accepted. The 47th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. Please plead 128 MPs, 100 for. The amendment has been accepted. The 49th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please plead 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic together submitted the 49th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 51st amendment were submitted by MP Sasa Milenic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, 103 for. The amendment has been accepted. The 51st amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please plead 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted together to the 52nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. The 53rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please plead 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted together to the 54th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Simo Vukovic submitted to the 54th amendment. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, 112 for. The amendment has been accepted. The 56th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. The 57th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. I ask you to plead with 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted together to the 57th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Simo Vukovic submitted to the 57th amendment. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, 108 for. The amendment has been accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted the amendment together. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 60th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please plead 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 62nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please plead 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic and Vesna Marjanovic submitted together to the 64th amendment. The Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, 117 for. The amendment has been accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted together to the 66th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted 22/1 AD/BJ 14,40-14.50 The amendment was submitted by MP Susan Grubjesic to Article 68. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, he voted 101. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 68th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Milenic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, 111 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 68th Amendment was submitted by MP Simo Vukovic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, three voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 70th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs none for. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the draft law on debt and foundations in general. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, 123 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill of Delegations and Foundations. We move to the 17th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Debt of the Republic of Serbia to the KBC BANK AD BELEGRAD, NEW CREDIT BANK MARIBOR DD, EUROBANK EFG AD BELEGRAD, Vojvodjanska BANKE ANOTHER NOW, HYPO-ALPE-ADRIA BELEGRAD AND ERSTE BANK ANOTHER NOW AND THE BANK INTESA AD BELEGRAD, UNICREDIT BANK SERBIA AD BELGRAD, RAIFEISEN BELK AD BELGRADE AND SOCIET OF GENERAL BANKE SERBIA BELBRAD. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I remind you, Article 105 is point 4 point 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, scheduled for the National Assembly to decide most of the votes of all MPs on the laws governing public borrowing. I put to the vote the draft law on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia to banks that made a joint offer, in principle. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 127 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The 3rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Marina Toman. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I remind you he's a 6. The bill envisions that the law enters into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 160(5) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the laws and other general acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of their publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are, in particular, reasonable reasons for this, established at the time of their adoption. In light of the bill's proposal, the Government cited particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force before the eighth day of publication, resulting from the fact that it is necessary to conclude credit agreements with commercial banks in 2010 for the purpose of financing the budget deficit and refinancing. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, 127 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, has found that there are particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I ask the MPs to make a statement about the bill in general. Of the 128 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority of the votes of all MPs a bill on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia to KBC Banka ad Belgrade, Novi Credit Banka Maribor dd, EUROBANK EFG ad Belgrade, Vojvodjanska banka ad Novi Sad, Hypo-Alpe-Adria Banka ad Belgrade and Erste Banka ad Novi Sad and the BANKA INTESA ad Belgrade, United Credit Banka Serbia ad Belgrade, Raiffeisen banka ad Belgrade and the Ssote Generale Banka Serbia ad Belgrade ad Belgrade that made a joint offer. We move to the 18th point of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA TO USE THE SOCIETY OF GENERAL BANK OF SERBIA AD BELGRAD AND UNICREDIT BANK OF SERBIA AD BELOBRAD BY THE DESERVING OF THE ACCIONARY SOCIETY FOR THE AIR COOPERATION OF "JAT AIRWAYS" AD BELGRAD. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search on the bill and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing public borrowing by majority of the votes of all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law on granting a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia for the benefit of the Serbia-based Generale Bank ad Belgrade and Uni Credit Bank Serbia ad Belgrade under the responsibility of the Air Traffic Action Society JAT AIRWAYS, ad Belgrade, in principle. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, 127 voted in favour. I find that by the majority of the votes of all the MPs, the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision by amendment. The 2nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Dear Members of the People, I remind you that it is Article 5. The bill envisions that the law enters into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 160(5) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the laws and other general acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of their publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are, in particular, reasonable reasons for this, established at the time of their adoption. In light of the bill's proposal, the Government cited particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force before the eighth day of publication, which stems from the fact that for the purpose of revitalisation of the airline and the training of the fleet, it is necessary to conclude credit agreements with the commercial banks in 2010. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, 127 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, has found that there are particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. 23/1 MP/VK 14,50-15,00 After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia for the benefit of the Generale Bank of Serbia a.d. and United Credit Bank Serbia a.d. Belgrade under the responsibility of the Action Society for Air Traffic "JAT AIRWAYS" a.d. Belgrade, in general. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. Of the 128 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all MPs, passed a bill on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia for the benefit of Social Generale Banka Serbia a.d. Belgrade and Unicredit Banka Serbia a.d. under the responsibility of the Action Society for Air Traffic "JAT AIRWAYS" a.d. Belgrade. We move to a vote on proposals for a law on ratification of international agreements on points 19 to 34 of the agenda. Since we are now moving to a decision on the proposals for the law on the approval of international contracts, i.e. the agreement of paragraphs 19 to 34 of the agenda, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. I also remind you that no amendments have been submitted to those draft laws, so the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 160(3), will be submitted. Rules of Procedure, on these bill proposals, vote only in general. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Framework Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the security of the Republic of Serbia's concession loan to the People's Republic of China, in general. Of the 128 MPs, all 128 were declared. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the State concession agreement for the NUCTECH System Project for the inspection of containers/vehicles between the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a borrower and the Chinese Export Import Bank as a lender, as a whole. Of the 128 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, of all the MPs, has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Supplement to the Convention on the creation of the Customs Cooperation Council, in general. We're pleading for a customs loan, in general. At least 126 MEPs should be required to vote in order to vote on a draft law confirming the Completion of the Convention on the creation of the Customs Cooperation Council. Of the 129 MPs, 127 voted. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine on mutual assistance in customs matters, in general. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 128 were declared. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Czech Republic, with an agreement on economic co-operation between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of the Czech Republic, in general. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 127 were declared. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Czech Republic on Amendments and Supplements to the Agreement between the Federal Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Government of the Czech Republic on mutual incentive and protection of investments signed on 13 October 1997 in general. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 126 MPs are required to vote in order to vote for the approval of the agreement between these two governments. Of the 129 MPs, 127 were declared. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Malta on mutual incentive and protection of investment, in general. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 128 were declared. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on trade and economic co-operation, in general. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 127 were declared. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of BiH on co-operation in the field of tourism, in general. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 126 were declared. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt on economic, technical and scientific co-operation in general. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 127 were declared. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement on cooperation in the field of tourism between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt, in general. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 126 were declared. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Air Traffic Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt, in general. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 126 were declared. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on co-operation in the field of humanitarian response in emergency situations, the prevention of elemental disasters and the technogenic hawari, and the removal of their consequences, in general. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 129 were declared. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. 24/1 VS/MS 15.00-15.05 I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on co-operation in the fight against crime in general. Of the 129 MPs, 127 were declared. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on police co-operation in general. Of the 129 MPs, 127 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on the establishment and functioning of a common contact between the police and customs co-operation centre in general. Of the 129 MPs, 128 voted. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. The amendments to the 35th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON DECLARATION TO THE INSTITUTION RULES IN THE INSTITUTION OF WORK POSITIONS IN THE PROPOSAL SERVICE OF THE REFERENCE REFERRED TO INSTRUMENTS Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for this decision, we move to a decision. I put it to the vote – Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Internal Regulation and to systematise jobs in the professional service of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. Of the 129 MPs, 128 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Internal Regulation and to systematise jobs in the professional service of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. We move to the 36th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION TO CONSOLIDATE TO DESCRIPTION OF THE DECLARATION DECISION AND THE WORK OF THE PROPOSAL OF THE PROFESSOR FOR THE PROTECTION OF JUSTICE As the National Assembly has carried out a single search under this proposal, we are moving to a decision and I am voting on the proposal for this decision. Of the 129 MPs, 123 voted yes. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to give consent to a decision on the education and work of the professional service of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. I remind you of the provisions of Article 103, Section 6 and Section 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the occasion of the apparition of the Members of Parliaments to infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may require without the right to explain that the National Assembly is to declare itself in the day of voting. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Predrag Mijatovic, at a meeting on November 11th, 2010 at 12.35 p.m., indicated that he was injured by a member of 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, they voted 2. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision-making by them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I conclude the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. (The session is closed at 15.05 pm. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-23-0.u47244	The fifth session of the Second Regular Session on 23 November 2010 (First Day of Work) (The session began at 15.05 p.m. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, president of the National Assembly, holds the presidency. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-23-0.u47245	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the fifth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 133 MPs. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and establishment of the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. To determine how many MPs are present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, it has been established that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly in the 127 Assembly. Allow me to inform you, in accordance with Article 87(3), that we will be working after 1800 hours today. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 286. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has Boris Alexic, an authorised representative of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-23-0.u47246	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have a question for the Ministry of Justice, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. As you know, Vojislav Seselj had an operation in The Hague on October 28th and a heart ablation was done. Until today, however, he has not received a report from the operation. More amazingly, he recently signed the agreement that certain authorities of the tribunal in The Hague, including the tribunal's President, the Shaker Bigger III and the Secretariat, would be given the opportunity to gain insight...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-23-0.u47247	Gentlemen, please allow us to hear the MP. I'm asking you to stay in the O.R., since we need to adopt the agenda. After the adoption of the agenda, there will be a 60-minute break. Excuse me, Mr. Alexich.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-23-0.u47248	No problem. So, on October 28th, the operation was carried out against Professor Dr. Vojislav Seselj, he did not receive a report from the operation until today, and recently signed agreement that certain authorities of the tribunal in The Hague, including tribunal President Patrick Robinson, the Secretariat and the Shaker Major III, are given the opportunity to gain insight into his medical reports. So, the medical report will be given to the tribunal's representatives in The Hague, but Vojislav Seselj has not received it until today. I would like to remind you that it is our country's obligation to protect its citizens wherever they are, that this obligation stems from relevant international acts, from the Constitution of the RS and the relevant laws, and the Ministry of Justice and the Government of the RS must make an effort in this direction. The fact that Vojislav Seselj has not been informed until today about the results of the operation is a violation of several international acts, including a set of principles for the protection of all persons detained or imprisoned, which was brought within the framework of the UN in 1988, the UN Standard Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners, which were adopted in 1955 by the European Prison Rules, which was adopted by the Council of Ministers of Europe in 1973, which was revised in 1987, the General Comments of the Committee for Human Rights and Principles of Medical Ethics, adopted by the General Assembly of the UN on 18 December 1982. There is no example in the world that someone has been operated and that a month after that he has not been informed of the results of the operation, and that the report from his operation has been received by other people, in this case by the tribunal's representatives in The Hague, as I have stated - tribunal President Patrick Robinson, The tribunal's Secretariat in The Hague and the Shaker III. The second issue is also related to the topic, and it is very important for all Serbia and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. On November 2nd, at the status conference in Vojislav Seselj in The Hague, an investigation into the killed Serbs in The Hague tribunal was initiated at his request. It's just amazing that in the state they keep quiet about it. There were seven Serbs who died in The Hague or were killed there. President of the Search Council III, Judge Jean-Claude Antoneti, publicly said on the occasion that he supports an investigation into the dead Serbs in The Hague tribunal. We are interested -- what did the government of the Republic of Serbia do, did it send appropriate documentation, so that the investigation into the murder and death of Serbs in The Hague tribunal would be independent and complete? When will he ask that question before the Security Council, i.e. before the UN, either via another state, whether directly as the Republic of Serbia, and when will it correct its record? As you know, on October 20th, we received a response from a representative of the government of the Republic of Serbia, in which they state that 14 Serbs were killed or died from the tribunal's warrant. But they forgot it as 15. Micic, who was killed on March 5th 1999 in Ugljevik, as 16. Vidoja Tomic, who was killed in April 1999 and as the 17th wife of one of the UN tribunal suspects in The Hague, Mrs Rada Abazovic, who was killed by EUFOR, and an 11-year-old child was injured at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-23-0.u47249	The speech is attended by MP Nenad Popovic, representative of the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-23-0.u47250	Dear Presidents of the Assembly, respected members of the government, my question is for Prime Minister Cvetkovic, and it refers to Telecom and Telecom sales. The DSS is absolutely against the sale of Telecom because we believe telecommunications is an important infrastructure resource for the future of this country. In the modern age of telecommunications are as important as road infrastructure, rail, water, etc. If we do not sell road infrastructure, if we do not sell roads and railways, there is no single reason to sell telecommunications infrastructure today, in which, only in fixed telecommunications infrastructure, over three billion euros have been invested in the last hundred years. I must also say that Telecom has enormous importance for the development of the Serbian economy. Telecom, as a large company, employs hundreds of small and medium-sized enterprises as cooperatives and suppliers. But perhaps even more importantly, Telecom is an extraordinary resource for future employment of young experts in telecommunications and electrical engineering. It is known that we have one of the best experts in electrical engineering, especially in telecommunications, and that there is today no major global firm in this area, whether it is pure electrical engineering or telecommunications, where they do not work on dozens, hundreds and thousands of young people who have graduated from the Faculty of Electrical Engineering in Belgrade and gone to the world. This scientific research and technology resource, which we have today and within Telecom, because Telecom has extraordinary experts, proven, working by world standards in the best possible competition, we must not lose. I'm sure these people, engineers, technologists, executives at Telecom, and not only in central, but throughout Serbia, today, would wish for many of the world's companies. Also, I don't think a security aspect should be forgotten, because Telecom provides very important services to the military, police, security agencies, government and other institutions that are of great importance to the functioning of the state. Explanations that we need money to build roads are really unserious, because we have to tell citizens the truth – Telecom does not have to be sold to build roads, because roads can be built through concessions, as they are built in other European countries. I just want to point out that close to 70% of the highways in the EU are built right through concessions, i.e. through a public private partnership. In the end, let me show you a document. This is a document by the Government of the Republic of Serbia called the Scientific and Technological Development Strategy of the Republic of Serbia from 2010 to 2015. Remember, the strategy of scientific and technological development of the Republic of Serbia was recently adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This strategy says that "the state must boost domestic technology by giving home-based programmes of various levels of government as well as public enterprises a chance at home smartness". Further: "The area of information and communication technologies has been developed in the Republic of Serbia at a good level and represents its important branch and economy and science. In the area of software production, and in part hardware, there are several companies dealing with the plasma knowledge and doing well in the market, even in the region... The major partners of the industry are Telekom Srbija (i.e."which means that this area is mostly located in public enterprises and state institutions." This document is in full correlation, absolutely contradicting the decision to sell Telecom, and that is why I am asking the Prime Minister – will he give up selling Telecom, because it is in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-23-0.u47251	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a word in accordance with Article 286? No, I don't. ) Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, are answering for a word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Borislav Pelevic and Miroslav Markicevic. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for laws and other acts in the proposed agenda of the session as soon as possible. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representatives of the motions of Dr Diana Dragutinović, Minister of Finance, Snezana Malović, Minister of Justice, Mr Mladjan Dinkic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Regional Development, and Mr Verice Kalanovic, Minister for the National Investment Plan, invited the sittings to attend and Ružica Stojiljkovic, Assistant Minister of Finance, Miodrag Djidić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, and Aleksandar Vujičić, Director of the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering. The first, second and fourth sessions of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been delivered to you. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from previous sessions. I'd still be able to figure out the quorum one more time. Please insert the cards into the MPs' units. There are 127 MPs present. I figure we can keep working. Dear People's MPs, I put to the vote the first session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010, held 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 12 October 2010. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, 120 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the first session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010, held 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 12 October 2010. I am voting on the minutes of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010, held on 14 October 2010. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 124 voted yes. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010, held on 14 October 2010. I am voting on the minutes of the fourth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010, held on 20, 21 and 22 October 2010. Please make a statement. Of the 130 MPs, 125 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 4th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010, held on 20, 21 and 22 October 2010. We're moving on to the agenda. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for the agenda of acts under emergency procedure and on a proposal for a merger of discussions. Proposals for review of acts by emergency procedure. The government proposed to put the draft law on the confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty (EPS Project for Numbers) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which submitted to the National Assembly on 22 October 2010 (point 9 of the proposed agenda) on the urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Of the 147 MPs, 128 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. A group of 53 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group suggested putting on the agenda an emergency procedure to propose a conclusion on the suspension of all activities of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Finance on the sale of 51% of the capital of the telecommunications company Telecom Serbia, a.d. Belgrade, which submitted to the National Assembly on 25 October 2010. Please make a statement. Please, this was a proposal that wasn't proposed by emergency procedure. You wouldn't have found yourself on the agenda if you hadn't added it anyway, take a look. Of the 175 MPs, 42 voted in favour. This proposal was not accepted by the National Assembly. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic proposed that the draft law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities in the repression of violence, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 1 November 2010, be put on the agenda. Please make a statement. Of the 144 MPs, two voted yes. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure should be put on the agenda of the draft law on the confirmation of the loan agreement for the privileged buyer for the Zemun Bridge Project – Borca with associated traffic, between the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a borrower and the Chinese Export-Import Bank as a lender, which submitted to the National Assembly on 29 October 2010 (point 8 of the proposed agenda). I'm putting this motion to the vote. Of the 144 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic suggested that the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, which submitted to the National Assembly on 1 November 2010, be put on the agenda. Please make a statement. Of the 144 MPs, one voted yes. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. The government has proposed to put on the agenda the draft law confirming the Guarantee Treaty (Serbian Railways: Corridor X) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (point 10 of the proposed agenda). I'm putting this motion to the vote. Of the 145 MPs, 124 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic proposed that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Liability for Human Rights, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 9 November 2010. Please make a statement. Of the 145 MPs, six voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. The government has proposed that the draft law confirming the Free Trade Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, which submitted to the National Assembly on 12 November 2010. Please state from 143 MPs, 124 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. The government proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on military, labour and material obligations, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 November 2010, should be put on the agenda of the urgent procedure. I'd like to make a statement from 141 MPs, two voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. The government proposed to put the draft Act amending and supplementing the Bank Act, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2010 (point 2 of the proposed agenda) on the urgent procedure. Please make a statement. Of the 141 MPs, 124 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. The government has proposed to put the draft amending and supplementing law on the bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and insurance companies, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2010 (point 3 of the proposed agenda) on the urgent procedure. Please make a statement. Of the 139 MPs, 118 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. The government proposed that the draft Act amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2010 (point 4 of the proposed agenda) be put on the agenda. Please make a statement. Of the 138 MPs, 120 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. The government proposed to put the draft Act amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Agency Act, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2010 (point 5 of the proposed agenda) on the urgent procedure. Please make a statement. Of the 137 MPs, 113 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism be put on the agenda, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2010 (point 6 of the proposed agenda). Please make a statement. Of the 138 MPs, 120 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. The government has proposed to put the draft amending and supplementing law on the 2010 budget of the Republic of Serbia, with proposals for decisions on granting consent to amendments and complementing the 2010 financial plans of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund and the National Employment Service, which submitted to the National Assembly on 18 November 2010 (point 1 of the proposed agenda). Please make a statement. Of the 138 MPs, 124 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. The government proposed putting the draft law on granting a guarantee to the Republic of Serbia in favour of Export Development Canada under RTB Bor – the Group of the Mining-Topionary Baseline Bor d.o.o. in the restructuring, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 18 November 2010 (point 7 of the proposed agenda). Please make a statement. Of the 137 MPs, 121 voted for the proposal. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. The government proposed putting the draft guarantee agreement (Belgrade/B) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, which submitted to the National Assembly on 19 November 2010 (point 11 of the proposed agenda) on the urgent procedure. Please make a statement. Of the 136 MPs, 122 voted in favour of the proposal. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. We've also got a motion to merge the debate. National MP Branko Ljiljak is, pursuant to Article 92(2), Article 157(2) of Article 170 and Article 192(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed to carry out: 1st Joint Principle and Single Search on: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2010 with Proposals for Decisions to give consent to amendments and amendments to the Financial Plans for 2010 of the Republic Fund for PIO and the National Employment Service, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Banks, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Insurance of Banks and Liquidation of Banks and Companies, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Depositary Insurance of the Republic of Serbia, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Deposit Insurance of Deposits, Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering of Money and Financing and Financing of Terrorism and the Law on the Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Serbia to the Republic of the Republic of Development Canada, in respect of RTB-B-B. in the restructuring and the 2nd joint Single Search on: Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Loan Treaty for a Loan for a Preferred Customer for the Zemun Bridge Project – Borca with associated traffics, between the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a Borress and the Chinese Export-Import Bank as a Borca as a Borca as a Borca as a Borca as a Loan as a Borca as a Loan and a Chinese Export – Import Bank as a Loan, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty (Serb Railways: Corridor X) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on Guarantee (B) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank and the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Free Trade Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Kazakhstan. Does MP Branko Ljiljak want a word? No, I don't. I put Ms. Branke Ljiljak to the vote. I'd like to make a statement about her proposal. Of the 136 MPs, Mrs Ljiljak voted 127 for the proposal. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure and on a proposal to merge the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. Please make a statement. Of the 136 MPs, 127 is in favour. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the 5th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010 as a whole. We're going to work on a set agenda. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the 2010 Act on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, with proposals for decisions on granting consent to changes and complementing financial plans for 2010: the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance and the National Employment Service, 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Bank Act, 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Bank's Banking and Liquidation Act, 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act, 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on the Deposit Insurance Agency, 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, 7. Proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia for the benefit of Export Development Canada under the responsibility of RTB Bor – Groups of the Bor d.o.o. In Restructure, 8 / 8 Proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement for a credit to a privileged buyer for the Zemun Bridge Project – Borca with associated traffic, between the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a borrower and the Chinese Export-Import Bank as a lender, 9. Proposal for a law confirming the Guarantee Treaty (EPS Numbering Project) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, 10. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty (Serbian Railways: Corridor X) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, 11. Proposal for a law confirming the Guarantee Treaty (Belgrade/B Exchange) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, 12. Proposal for a law confirming the Free Trade Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, 13. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Let me inform you that the session of the Administrative Board will be held at 1600 hours and I ask the Members of the Administrative Board to take part in the work. I'm setting a 60-minute break. We'll be working on something after 4:30. [[After break – 16:45]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have information that the minister will be here any minute, because traffic is, they say, a lot of traffic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-23-0.u47255	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, allow me, on behalf of the Government, to present to you a package of financial laws, including one of the most important ones, which is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2010. Of course, I'll start with this law. I'm also going to do a little crackdown, that this is the sixth budget of 28 months, so in the period of the government's term of office, which really speaks of about four and a half to five months being revised, given the changed and internal circumstances. It is the only way that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, by budget and its changes, can react to the complexity and changes in the external environment. But if we really want to talk about the changes that involve and include this rebalancing, I will say that these changes are, under one, not so great in quantitative terms, because they concern 2.5% of the total expenditure, and that these changes are, above all, the result of this government's desire to balance between stimulating the business of subsidies and subsidized loans and achieving some kind of social cohesion, without which there is neither survival nor progress. So the changes involved in this rebalancing are, above all, changes that concern different categories of social expenditure and these changes are consistent with the programme that we have with the IMF. I will take this opportunity and remind all of us together that the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2010 has been working on the basis of a final third revision and that this budget meant the deficit of the consolidated state of 4% of the social product. Already at the conclusion of the fourth revision, due to the external environment and the slower growth of the region, including Serbia, than expected, has been revised, in essence, by the IMF programme and has been recommended as something that is a slow-recovery drug, a larger deficit, means a deficit of a consolidated state of 4.8% of the social product, and this rebalancing is actually done and agreed on compared to what is the fourth revision of the IMF arrangement, which is concluded, if you remember, somewhere in June 2010. As is the order, we need to present some economic results and indicators. Of course, I have to say, they're mixed. On the one hand, there is unequivocal evidence that the economy is recovering, that it best speaks about the rate of economic growth, and the economic growth of that part of the social product that does not apply to agriculture, which is accelerated in the third quarter and second quarter relative to the same period last year, that is about 2.5%, but if statistical techniques that involve the seasonalisation and rise of that growth in the third and second quarter at the annual level are applied, this testifies some growth that is greater than four or four and a half percent on the annual level. What is also a good sign is that the structure of this growth is changing and that the really basic contribution to growth has given export-oriented branches, primarily industries, but also trade and telecommunications, and within industry, the most of the following activities: basic metals, chemistry, food industry and plastics. On the other hand, there are some not so desirable symptoms. What's going on is inflation that first crossed the upper level of the national bank's target interval in October. Let's remind ourselves -- six plus minus two percent is targeted inflation. She was above that goal in October. The basic causes of such a movement are known, therefore the growth of food products and the effect of transferring foreign exchange rate depreciation to inflation. Basically this budget, as well as the basic budget that we adopted at the end of last year, are essentially two things – tax policy which is basically unchanged and expenditure policy which basically has a freezing of current expenditures, primarily earnings, pensions and all other labour costs, which is called buying goods and services, in order to create space for those other expenditures, therefore fiscal incentives such as subsidies, subsidised loans and investments. Now something about the budget framework itself, i.e. the 2010 rebalancing. The budget framework represents revenue of 660 billion dinars. I speak round numbers to make it easier to remember. Basically, these are slightly higher revenues than the ones we planned with the original budget. However, the very structure of income is somewhat different. VAT revenues are slightly lower, just as a result of the export growth of our economy – as you know, exports are free of VAT payments everywhere, including in Serbia – but therefore much higher revenues than planned by excise duties. Also, on the one hand, we have slightly lower incomes than taxes and incomes from what we planned with the original budget, but on the other hand significantly higher incomes from profit taxes. So, globally, income growth is about 33.5 billion dinars, with some change in structure. The expenditure of the amended budget of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the rebalance, is approximately 780 billion dinars. It means somewhere that the deficit of the Republic of Serbia's budget is 120 billion dinars. Again, I am talking about that the budget of the Republic of Serbia accounts for about 58% of the total public expenditure and that this rebalancing is in line with the general framework agreed. On this occasion, I'd like to introduce you to those changes that I think were most important. Like I said, these were expenditures that were more focused on meeting social needs. So the point is that an increased transfer to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund is about seven billion dinars and that it is essentially about regular retirement. Also, expenditure on the name of one-time payments to employees in the state administration and public services has been increased, i.e. education and health care. The expenditure amounted to two billion dinars. Also, spending on the name of one-time pensioners has been increased. These measures are well-known to all of us, these are the measures agreed upon in earlier revisions of the IMF arrangements. The measure cost about 6.5 billion dinars. Also, increased spending on basic social protection, for children's and mother's allowances, but also for some extraordinary social programmes, aimed at the poorest, especially poor municipalities and the possibility of those 40 poor municipalities to provide social protection services, chain-packs and the provision of folk cuisine for the poorest. In this budget, additional space was given to all municipalities. So, there has been an increase in transfers by municipalities by one billion dinars – 500 million are divided by the same key by all municipalities, and 500 million are divided only by those who are poor, by a special key. After the adoption of this rebalancing, a government decision will be made to specify the allocation of one billion to municipalities. In addition to these expenditures, more space has been educated, with 892 million dinars for different purposes in education. Business subsidies have also been increased by about two billion. Also, there has been an increase in funds that will ensure regular supply of milk. Consider this budget and as something that is trying to minimise the negative effects that have recently occurred. So 650 billion dinars are for regular milk supply. Also, a heated season has been secured. There's an increase in lube stock. If some municipalities do not have enough funds to obtain a heating mule, there are supplies that will support them and, of course, by returning some of the old debts to the city, the heating season is also provided in those heats that depend crucially on gas supply. These were the most important changes concerning the rebalance of the Republic of Serbia's budget. I would repeat once again that we have tried to find the right balance between subsidies and stimulation and social cohesion, and I really hope that this rebalancing has achieved that goal. In addition to the rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, you have before you the changes and additions of financial laws, in particular the Bank Act, the Deposit Insurance Act, the Deposit Insurance Agency Act and the Bank Liquidation and Insurance Companies Act. We talked about this package of laws several times. I'd like to introduce you to basic changes, first of all, which was the basic reason why we decided to change these laws. This is, above all, the preservation of the financial stability of the Republic of Serbia, the prevention or possible mitigation of the negative effects of potentially new crisis situations, increased protection of depositor interests and the preservation and strengthening of confidence in the banking sector. The amendments to these four laws essentially create a legal basis for the government's rapid response if a case arises in a problem, prevents the transfer of effects from an individual problem bank to a system level, secures the stability of the banking sector, and, on the other hand, what is very important, minimises the costs of the Republic of Serbia and the Deposit Insurance Agency and the NBS and ensures the preservation of the value of the bank's assets. I'd like to compare the current state of affairs of things that regulate these four financial laws and briefly inform you about what the basic papers are. As you remember, we changed this law somewhere in October 2008. It was the Deposit Insurance Act, when we increased the minimum amount of secured deposits from 3,000 euros to 50,000 euros, per deposit and per bank. Payments of secured deposits shall start within three days of the date of the decision of the competent court to initiate the bankruptcy proceedings. It was one of the measures, among others, where the government of the Republic of Serbia tried to mitigate the negative effects when not only one bad news of the bank's collapse, whose name associated with a local bank, began to withdraw deposits. Therefore, the current legislation provides for the next scenario. You have the NBS and within the regular functions of the NBS you have its control function, which is controlled by the banks individually. The NBS, through its indicators, can identify a troubled bank. If the bank has difficulties or if it is so-called. the problem bank, what the current legal regulation allows, is that either the NBS adopts a solution to the emergency administration, appoints a forced manager and, if the financial results of the bank's operations are corrected under that forced management, the troubled bank continues its business. The second case is that the NBS withdraws the bank's work permit, the Commercial Court then provides a solution to the launch of the bankruptcy procedure, bankruptcy and liquidation of banks, then the Deposit Insurance Agency, which has the role to pay for the minimum security amount. What has this law really changed? The NBS still has its basic control function, to identify whether there is a problem bank. If there is a bank that has difficulties in business, the NBS again makes a solution to the emergency administration, sets up a forced manager, and in the course of a forced administration, it is possible to capitalise on the bank by existing or new shareholders and, which was not within the existing law, the coercion of another bank. Both instruments, of course, take place without the financial support of the state. Of course, there is another scenario that provides for this law, which is that the National Bank of Serbia withdraws the business bank's work permit. It appoints the Deposit Insurance Agency as administrator of such a bank and a bank under administrative management, in fact the Agency conducts a minimum cost test, has more options available than it had in the applicable law. In the applicable law, she only had the option of bankruptcy and liquidation. There are now two other options – the purchase of assets and the takeover of bank liabilities by another bank and the transfer of total assets or parts of assets and liabilities to the bank for special purposes, etc. The bridge bank, which is based on a period of two plus two years, which the NBS gives a license to work. In this way, the ability of the state to react when a problem bank occurs is higher, you have a higher number of instruments, but the idea of introducing a larger number of instruments is to achieve the lowest cost for the state. Because, basically, the most expensive thing is to pay off a secure deposit. It is, therefore, the government that decides on financial support on a proposal from the Deposit Insurance Agency. Financial support shall be granted only after the Deposit Insurance Agency has shown which method and which means are the cheapest. The Deposit Insurance Agency itself has more functions within this package than it had under current laws – providing financial support to banks, performing the function of the bank administrator to whom the work permit was withdrawn, establishing a bank for special purposes, carrying out the payment of claims on behalf and on behalf of the Republic of Serbia. I note that financial support cannot be provided to a bank that is under forced management, or to a bank that has been deprived of a labour license. What are resources if a case like this comes forward? The resources are the very funds of the Deposit Insurance Agency, of course the budget of the Republic of Serbia and other sources. If these funds are not enough, the Agency can be in charge and has the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia. So, all in order to protect depositors and all in order to minimise costs for the Republic of Serbia's budget. As perhaps the last change is that this law introduces the possibility of the government in certain cases, such as the systemic global economic crisis, perhaps increasing the degree of deposit protection. This degree of protection can be increased in two ways. One way is to extend the scope, so other than natural persons, small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs, it includes even large companies, or to increase the minimum amount of secured deposits, and I repeat again, in the function of security and stability of the financial sector. In the end, I would only say two or three sentences about small changes to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering. There are only two major changes I'd like to inform you of. Therefore, an electronic money transfer verification system is introduced to minimise the risk of such transfers. So whoever orders the electronic transfer must be identified. Also, the authority of the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering has been expanded. The Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering is practically overseeing and controlling the following taxpayers: persons engaged in postal traffic, entrepreneurs and legal persons performing factoring and forfeting operations, also legal persons engaged in money transfer services, accounting services, audit services, credit transaction interventions, tax counselling, etc. So it's basically just two major changes. In this way, I would like to conclude my opening statement on the financial law package. I think they're important, and that's why I'm asking you to support these laws in voting day, no matter what side they're on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-23-0.u47256	Thank you, Madam Minister. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. Mr Balint Pastor has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-23-0.u47257	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hope that Madam Minister will answer some of my questions and that we will finally have a lively debate here on the tide. In these budgetary debates, I've always been putting out some regrets, suggestions, some of our visions, in the hope that you'll help us solve these dilemmas, but you've never answered those questions of ours, at least not here in the Assembly room. It's never happened that we have answers to these questions about the budget. I hope that this rebalancing will be a precedent and that we, SVM MPs, after this budgetary debate will be smarter and more informed and that you will allow us to vote in favour of this 2010 budget rebalancing proposal. I hope you don't mind if I say that we had one conversation this morning at the Finance Committee's session and I expect to have a similar conversation on the tide, to make it easier for us to make a decision on the support or non-support of this bill. This morning I said that, in our deep conviction, this proposal is against the law in relation to the funding of local self-government and anti-constitutional in relation to the financing of the AP Vojvodina. I know, Madam Minister, that these are difficult words, but I will try to prove this in my discussion, and you will, of course, have the opportunity to deny me after my address. This morning you told the Finance Committee that there were very few changes to the original text of the 2010 Budget Law and that this rebalancing was done on the same basis as the 2010 Budget Act. That's when I said it was the basic source of our problems, because we too found that there was no big difference between this proposal for rebalance and the adopted Budget Law for 2010. As you know, in December of last year, we were unfortunately forced to vote against the 2010 budget and, if you are now saying that this proposal was made on the same basis and that there are very few fundamental changes to the current budget of the Republic of Serbia, then it is difficult to find an excuse to support this proposal. Before we enter into details about the financing of the AP Vojvodina, I would like to say that for every conviction, the fact that the budget rebalancing is being discussed on November 23rd of the year. This is because you are certainly aware of the fact that Hungary has started the budget debate for next November 15th, that Croatia has launched a budget debate for next November 16th, and we are in Serbia just starting a budget rebalance debate for this year on 23 November. You said this was the sixth budget in 28 months, and we, unfortunately, had problems with budget proposals on all these occasions, because all the budget proposals were counter-constitutional. In certain cases, we have been able to agree and support budget proposals, we have succeeded in the last few moments always to find a solution. The exception was the draft budget for 2010, when despite the talks, we failed to find a solution that could jointly bring together a draft budget with the Constitution. In the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 184, it states very clearly that Vojvodina should receive at least 7% of the republican budget, and that is the half-word you keep repeating, not just you, but all government officials and other parties of the ruling coalition, but we all know very well that the Constitution does not stand a point but a decimal, and after that, it is said: "with three weeks compulsory use of capital investments in the territory of the AP Vojvodina" and that is the point. I know that in today's times of the global economic crisis and in very difficult moments for the Republic of Serbia's budget, it is very difficult to provide 42.85% of the capital expenditure financing budget, and three weeks it comes out about 42.85%. So, the basic situation under the Constitution is that Vojvodina's republican budget should get 7%, and nearly 43% of those 7% should go to capital investments in Vojvodina territory. If that is not the case, then the draft budget is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I know this is a quite unfortunate solution and there are no similar solutions in the environment, but you certainly know, Mrs Dragutinovic, that our party, the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, was not a parliamentary party when the Constitution was brought into the National Assembly, so we simply had nothing to do with this solution, we did not propose it. I know you haven't either, Madam Minister, but you have to propose a solution that is in accordance with the Constitution, when it is already in place, because it is according to the principles of constitutionality, according to the rule of law and legal certainty. It just can't be any different. So it's so proposed, it's so accepted and it's so according to the current constitution. It is quite simple, even for lawyers, to calculate whether this constitutional provision is respected. It is necessary to simply calculate what these items are intended for the Vojvodina that are certainly not capital investments. So we can figure out whether there are three weeks left to cover the capital expenditures. That's what I was talking about last December, but since I didn't have success, I'll repeat, since the figures are practically the same. About 25 billion dinars go to transfers in education and culture in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. These are, of course, very important items and we do not at all argue that this is the way it should be. Enlightenrs are due to receive salaries, but educators receive salaries in both Belgrade and Zajecar and Nis. So these are not assets that can be used for capital investments, because they are dedicated transfer funds. About 6.6 billion dinars are transfers to local self-government in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. These are the same important funds, but AP Vojvodina's authorities do not have, and should not have, any interference with what local self-governments spend on the one hand, and on the other hand, transfers from the republican budget do not only receive municipalities in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, but they get everything, and I think there are 173 municipalities and cities in the territory of Serbia as a whole. So these funds aren't funds that can go into capital investments either. About four billion dinars go to capital transfers for Corridor 10 and that, of course, we can count as funds for capital investments, but if we add these items, then we have an item of 36 billion dinars, which means that about 60% of the province's budget is made up of transfer funds. If we add about five billion dinars to the functioning of the AP Vojvodina, which are not the same funds for capital investments, then we have a sum of 41 billion dinars. If we know that the AP Vojvodina budget currently stands at around 60.75 billion dinars, and if we take the fact that I was just saying 41 billion is certainly not going into capital investments, then we get the fact that even three weeks can't be used to fund capital investments in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, which means that even if Vojvodina gets 7%, it certainly doesn't get three weeks for capital investments, which is also a constitutional obligation. I have the custom to quote to you in these assembly discussions your colleague Jovica Djukic, the circuit finance secretary, who made one statement on September 25th of this year that helps me prove these claims. He said "The total amount of the budget only nominally meets the constitutional minimum of 7% for the province, but it is still not possible to provide three weeks of capital investment budgets because much of the budget is made up of transfer funds. It's justified that part of the transfer goes through our budget, but it's not justified for transfers to local self-government. It has no basis." He made that statement on September 25th of the current year, but according to these items in the proposed rebalancing, nothing drastically changes and this statement is unfortunately still ongoing. As you know, Jovica Djukic does not belong to the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians, but to the Democratic Party. If he claims the same thing we do, and if we can prove our claims by numbers, numbers, that never lie, which I just did before, then we have a situation that we can choose between two evils again. We can also deny support for this budget rebalancing, as we did in December of last year in connection with the 2010 budget, and remain principled, since the Constitution is on our side, or we can support this proposal and then we have a situation to become accomplices to the adoption of an anti-Volume and anti-Constitutional budget. How much time do I have, President? (President: another six-and-a-half minutes.) For us, the goals of this rebalancing are not disputed. We also believe that the King should receive those funds that the proposal for this rebalancing is intended to help the King, the officers should receive those funds that belong to them, the municipal obligations of the state, of course, should be paid, the PIO should receive those additional seven billion dinars for regular pension payments. It's not a dispute, but it's a question of what I was just talking about. However, the issue is that the Ministry of Agriculture only received half the funds from those it sought. It is not disputed that the Ministry of Education will receive around 892 million dinars, all of which we support, but the question is, and here, Mrs Dragutinovic, to help us – how can we now support the proposal for a rebalancing that is proven not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? Another question is raised, Mrs Dragutinovic – do you, as a Government, have the majority to vote this rebalancing without four votes from the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians? I'm not going to say any secret when I say that there was no discussion with us about this budget proposal at all. That means that you as a government have the majority to vote on this rebalance. More importantly, we don't know if these facts are being taken into account when you, as the Ministry of Finance, are preparing a draft budget for 2011. Can we get, of course, no guarantees, but at least some assurances or some good news about taking care of the financing of Vojvodina when preparing the budget for next year? Because to simplify the situation, if you say you can't bring this budget without the help of the Duke Hungarian Union, we're willing to give you support for this rebalancing, and because the rebalancing will only be applied for a month, which doesn't matter, because the money provided for by this rebalancing has already been spent, and this rebalancing only serves to cover something that's already been done. On the other hand, we don't want to be seen as a factor of instability, we don't want anyone to accuse us of destruction, because it's not our goal now, it wasn't our goal in December of last year. So if you need our support, we can give it to you, but we should know if that support is necessary. Because I have to tell you, we're not going to be happy to vote for this kind of rebalancing, but in this case, we can do it. But now I say publicly and make sure that this budget for 2011, with similar figures, we certainly won't be able to support it. If you, as Ministry of Finance, intend to refer to the 2011 draft budget in the assembly procedure that will be similar to this rebalancing process, then you will certainly not have our support. I hope that in these few days until the draft budget is confirmed for next year, we will be able to agree that this proposal will be in line with the Constitution. We are prepared to support this rebalancing and because we do not have support from other parties of the ruling coalition, above all from one party that should also fight for the interests of the AP Vojvodina. That's what happened in December last year. If we had the support of some other MPs who talk often about Vojvodina, who are full of mouths of decentralisation and regionalisation, then we would surely be in a different situation and then we could agree with the government, because then the government would be forced to meet the Dukes. In this way, the government and the ruling majority can find different solutions, there are independent MPs, and therefore I expect a very clear answer to the question – do you expect our support for this rebalancing? I draw your attention once again, not to you, Mrs Dragutinovic, but to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to pay attention to this constitutional obligation when the budget is being made for next year, because a state which does not respect its own constitution cannot certainly enter the EU. The EU's foundations are the principle of constitutionality and the principle of rule of law, and these principles have been persistently violated for years by budget proposals. I expect your answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-23-0.u47258	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Đuro Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-23-0.u47259	Dear Madam President, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as said by the Minister, the rebalance of the Republic of Serbia's 2010 budget is based on the achieved macroeconomic and fiscal results in January-September 2010, on their revised 2010 projections, as well as on the planned economic and fiscal policy by the end of 2010. In the implementation of the Government's Economic Programme, some positive results were achieved in the first half of this year, primarily in GDP growth by 1.2%, industrial production by 4.4% and foreign trade, where goods exports were increased by 21.1% and imports by 8.9%, and the external trade deficit was reduced by 4%. Agriculture, which was our basic export branch, had an incursion in spring crops, but significant growth is expected in autumn crops, primarily in corn and soybeans. According to statistics, a further increase in GDP in the third quarter is expected, even by 2%. These positive trends, according to the PUPS parliamentary group, need to be further encouraged, but also to make maximum efforts to reduce poor economic performances, such as the negative value of construction works, as there is something around minus 19.2%, in tourism minus 10%, and in particular concerns the net inflow of foreign direct investment, because there were only 595m euros. Due to insufficient investment growth and the result of slower economic recovery, the trend of the downsizing of the number of employees in the first nine months of this year has continued, so employees are expected to fall from over 3% in 2010, which is very bad. In these ten months, the dinar has been depressed by 10.7%. What is particularly worrying is that, based on an assessment of the basic macroeconomic indicators of the Republic of Serbia, inflation may be up to 10% at the end of the year. This is primarily due to an increase in food prices of 12.5%. Consumer prices rose in January-October 2010 by 8.3% compared to December 2009. As a result of such macroeconomic indicators and the implementation of the January-October budgets of the current year, there was a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Republic of Serbia's 2010 budget. The most important causes of the change in revenue projection are in the revision of the macroeconomic framework and the assessment of the movement of the most important indicators of GDP and its components, inflation, exchange rate, foreign exchange movements, compared to the framework for the draft Budget Law. The rebalance of the Republic of Serbia's 2010 budget suggests a total of more expenditure than I've seen in this material, 16.751,811.052 dinars. Since the planned income from contributions to pension-inhabited insurance is not realised, which is becoming the biggest issue of pension payments, the problem must be dealt with vigorously. So far, the Ministry of Finance's engagement has not produced satisfactory results. Debts are constantly increasing, employers' obligations are being played out, and the entire pension-inhabitation system is thus at stake. The debts already reach more than 200 billion. Only ten months this year have made less income from contributions to 11753,460,000 dinars. In any of these ten months, insurance workers have not achieved the income necessary to finance realistically everything that falls under pension-inhabited insurance. And in the case of autonomous activity, which is an absurd, half-half, positive and negative, and in the farmer, as many as six months were less than necessary. So the basic problem is that we're paying our contributions right now, because if he doesn't secure himself, then we're going to have this discrepancy that we have in paying off our liabilities to this fund all the time. Otherwise, the budget rebalance for regular pension payments is transferred to the Republic PIO Fund of 5.557 million dinars, as indicated in the material. Of the more significant increases in funds, the rebalancing is foreseen for social protection of 5.275 million dinars, of which 220 million dinars for childcare. In order to promote economic activity, i.e. production and exports, subsidies and loans intended for the implementation of certain programmes for the growth of industrial production and for these purposes shall be allocated additional resources of 1,850 million dinars. To encourage agricultural production in the Republic of Serbia, additional funds amounting to 650m dinars are allocated, and only for milk premiums. Additional funding of 2,642m dinars is also provided to settle the debt of the city of Belgrade's budget on the basis of compensation for the use of construction land. In our opinion, these obligations had to be reconciled from the already planned budget. The proposed budget rebalance provides additional transfer funds to local self-government units of 1,000 million dinars, as the minister has already said. As I have noticed, the draft budget rebalance of the Republic Bureau of Statistics does not define any funding for the preparation of jobs for the 2011 census of the population and agriculture. The Committee on Science and Technological Development, which received information on the course of affairs regarding the census, noted that the Republic Institute had not received at all any funding for this preparatory work, and without it it it is not possible to take any serious action. Representatives of the Institute believe that adequate resources are already needed to prepare the census, otherwise there may be a shift in the list, which would not be good, as international organisations also participate in the list of agriculture as aid. On the basis of Article 43(2), The Law on the Budgetary System, the National Assembly, takes the decision to give consent to the financial plans of the mandatory social security organisations, and since Article 1(1) of the Law, stipulates that the Republic Fund is a PIO Mandatory Social Insurance Organisation, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on granting consent to the Decision amending and supplementing the financial plan of the Republic of PIO Fund for 2010. According to changes and additions to the 2010 financial plan of the Republic Fund of PIO, the total expenditures and expenditures of the Fund in 2010 have been reduced from initially planned 471, 59 billion dinars to 470.54 and are lower by 0.22 and 1.05 billion respectively. The estimated level of material and other expenditure in 2010 is carried out in the framework of plans, except for expenditure affected by the rise in prices and costs additionally linked to pension payments. In addition to freezing employees' earnings and the Government's Decision on the maximum number of employees in compulsory social insurance organisations, under which the PIO reduced the number of employees by 304, the rebalancing expenditure on the name of employees from three billion to 2.90 billion and contributed to the burden of employers from 537 million to 519 million, a total of 118 million dinars is lower than originally planned funds. However, it should be noted that in 2010, January-October, the total number of pensioners increased by 2%, among employees 1.8%, self-employed users 6.5% and agricultural users up to 1%. As regards the number of employees in the PIO Fund, the total number of employees was 3.120 on 30.09.2010. There is no doubt that the number of employees in the PIO Fund are linked to the pension reform process itself. In fact, three independent funds – employed, self-employed and farmers – have been merged into a single fund. According to the proposal, this single fund should also be incorporated into the Military Insurance Fund since 2012. It must be acknowledged that this total transformation of funds is not an easy and simple process at all. As a result, the PIO Development Strategy for 2009-2011 was adopted. the year, which envisions the consolidation of the system of collection and reform of the pension administration. Significant steps have already been made in that direction. There are extensive changes in the functioning of the Fund administration. It is very important for all the Fund employees to understand the essence of the changes being carried out and to make their personal and professional contribution to the creation of a modern and efficient fund in which citizens will quickly and effectively exercise their pension-inhabited rights. With that in mind, a large and content plan of staff training was launched, covering more than 80% of the total number. The aim of the reform is to bring employees closer to the need for reform of the system, as well as to show them how they will be able to change themselves. Using all available resources of the Fund, primarily personnel and information, several new services are developing in parallel to enable new ways of communication between citizens and employers with the Fund. These services are also an introduction to a globally regulated system, called the Central Register of Obligatory Social Insurance and which will soon function. Finally, the PUPS parliamentary group will vote in favour of this draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia, with proposals for a decision to give consent to changes and the addition of financial plans for 2010, as well as for all other laws united in this agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-23-0.u47260	MP Cedomir Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-23-0.u47261	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Dragutinovic, despite this environment we are in, I will try to be serious. You said yourself that this is our sixth meeting on the subject of budget, budget rebalancing, etc. I think that practice, which has turned into a rule, is scandalous and I want to say that it is impossible to have a serious conversation about such an important issue in a situation where the entire government has hidden behind you, and even escaped from this debate. To ask the Irish prime minister to come, I think he would come to Parliament and talk to the MPs, first about the economic policy that should be run in this country, the problems that are obvious and that exist, and then try to find a way, and I think it's the government's function, to engage all the potentials, both political and economic and cultural and social and in general social, to make something positive happen in this country. When you first came, Mrs Dragutinovic, with the budget rebalance for 2008, then we fundamentally parted on the subject of the country's economic policy. We are not a party that respects that philosophy, which actually antagonises political life in the country, because we believe that the worse it is in society, the better it will be for us, because we are not in power, but you refuse to respect our suggestions. I'll fix you first. You did not raise security to deposits in October 2008, but a representative of your ministry criticised us when we asked to rise from 3,000 to 5,000. The second parliamentary group asked for 10,000. The government said it was populism, demagogy, and there was no need for such intervention, and then, seven or ten days after that, it announced a raise to 50,000, and then it did so only with a few months late, when the 2009 budget was adopted, rather than budget rebalance. Why am I saying all this? Because even then, and today, you are a lonely political representative who is destined for failure, a policy that comes across space in this vacuum that we live in because it still manages to balance with what you call a social commitment to society and the pressures that you are exposed to, and we call pulsism and demagogy, the cheapest. If the government is sincere in that definition, why isn't she here with us today? For the sixth time, we're talking about money, the way we think we're going to spend it not but create it, and that's the second difference in philosophy to approach the problem we're facing. You're not our talker on this field. I'll tell you why. Because these five and a half, or how many 16 or 15 billion we're talking about, are not the subject of any debate. Who is here in Parliament against being an emergency for the King? We weren't against it even to help pensioners who were at risk. But, these 10, almost 11 percent of our national currency falls, at that rate there's a price for the wrong policy that's being run. As in those 30% since 2008 and the price of 10%, on which your coalition was made, a linear pension increase for all pensioners in the country. So from 85 years ago, the dinar arrived at 107 today for the euro. Let's first get simple answers to very serious problems, which stem not from this rebalancing, but from the fact that you intend to continue as usual. It will not be the defeat of one government, but the destruction of the potentials that exist in this society will put us in a position that we cannot help ourselves, nor can others. We have a lot of respect for the role you play in that government. There is too much uncertainty here to say that you are irresponsible to them, but in key situations, the greatest consensus, if we look at economic policy in the government and economic policy in LDP, exists in situations where you appear as someone who makes decisions. However, you cannot be an adequate talker on the subject of budget rebalances because, according to us, this budget rebalance only makes sense if it announces a completely different political orientation in 2011. What about "five and"? When will the Prime Minister come here to Parliament and introduce us to his economic development strategy by 2020? What about the investments? What about re-industrialization? What about decentralisation? These are the elements of the policy that we need to define in order to then be able to come, say, to a situation where we're going to spend what we're creating. Let's analyze the economic policy that you need to implement. We think she's a confusion. We think that this policy has already lost its key battle, which is not to meet our daily needs, but to create preconditions for fundamental changes in our society, of which in economic terms it should be the first one to be a change for which you haven't had the strength or for the past ten years, which is a completely different attitude of the state towards society and citizens. This budget rebalance can't be called the price society will pay for the state's unpreparedness to reform, the price the company will pay for the state to balance instead of leading. This budget rebalance is just saying, because of the atmosphere in which we are talking about it, that economic policy remains part of a propaganda concept in which everything is allowed and in which all are freed of any kind of responsibility. Mrs Dragutinovic, under the law of this country you were required to send the budget to Parliament by 1 November. It became a rule that the law was not respected. And tell me if this gallanty can allow itself and the businessmen in Serbia, who each 10th must pay their state VAT. Can they register for a month without paying? Can they remain in debt to the state, since it is completely understandable and acceptable that the state owes them? I can't. You have tied this society and arms and legs with ambition to maintain existing relations, convinced that it is the only way to remain in power. I followed closely what you said and I must tell you that it is very difficult for Serbia to recognize the responsibility of an external factor. It is very difficult today to agree with your conclusion that Serbia is in economic trouble today because of the global crisis. This may seem strange to you, but the nature of the problems we are facing today in Serbia has only become more visible and naked the moment that this crisis has taken away from us the excuses that we have used until then. That's what we need to talk about. This crisis has not made Serbia less competitive, but our unwillingness to do what we should do. The international financial crisis has not ruined our stock exchange. She never was. Right? Only on our stock market could you have fictitious stock, sell ten shares and raise 20% of the company's value. Yeah, just us. That's why we live in a break-in. Are you saying that what was happening on the Belgrade Stock Exchange is the rule of New York or London? Well, just like this atmosphere of New York, London, Washington, Brussels -- you and we MPs here with you, without prime minister, without economy, without ministers who need to implement economic policy, to propose measures... For the agriculture of 650 million dinars. Nice. I can agree that you'd give more if you did, right? But what about the way you do the stimulating milk production? It is not true that milk is missing because the acceptable tycoons yesterday and today, the on-call culprits do not give cows to give or torture Serbian peasants. The milk's gone because our cattle fund's been destroyed. And subsidies and subsidisation policy, does it change? No, it's not changing, it's going to be conducted the same way it's been for the last few years. And what kind of way is that, is he respecting the market and market logic or is he a victim of a party state? The victim is a party state. As long as, Mrs Dragutinovic, you do not fix the model of subsidisation of agriculture and agricultural producers, you will not solve the problem you are obliged to solve. Because still in Serbia, a farmer with 100 cows is worth one vote, as is a farmer with a cow. So you decided to help a hundred individual producers with one cow and leave these others to mercy and not mercy to competition, which they couldn't stand. Because it is still impossible for Serbia to go to elections with the herd, but it will likely be the result of a policy that treats society as if it were a herd. Let's see, you've sent us here materials that speak of indirect obligations, that's internal debt, and guarantees that we, as Parliament, have given for such a thing. One Bank – Paths of Serbia – 68m euros, another Bank – Paths of Serbia – 55m euros, Serbia – 50m euros, Serbia – 120m euros, etc. We can list hundreds of millions of euros that we took on loan to finance – what? The development of this society or the preservation of existing relations? We've proposed four packages of economic measures over the past two years, and as a rule, you've responded to them with delay. We were looking for an agreement with the IMF in 2008 and before the crisis started, because we realized that this is the only way to reform our society. We agreed to the IMF at the end, and now we are watching as soon as possible, because it was the impression that the IMF was responsible for frozen salaries in Serbia, frozen pensions and the difficult economic situation. You, as finance minister, are obliged to face these prejudices and to remove them, not to submit one referendum in which you will tell us that you are obliged to balance with both sides. That way we won't get anywhere. We need an intergenerational agreement, and solidarity, not the idea of coming to Parliament, so because there is no parliamentary majority without a pensioner party, do something that is unacceptable in times of crisis. You have left the concept of reform of the Pension Fund, you have extended it for 2013. For what? For some other government? What's the situation then? Is that responsible? So we decided to do in 2013 what Germany has already done this year, what France has done, what Greece has done. Now, that's politics, in an area that can't tolerate such a thing. In some other sectors, maybe, but there's no room for politics here. If you're talking about successes in our exports, it's true, exports are slightly larger. But that export is also not the result of policy, effort and engagement of our government, but is a direct consequence, if we are talking about the agrarian, closed Russian market, birth years in Serbia, acceptable prices. And the work that was done was done despite the state, not with the support of the state. Subsidized loans – when will we get the concept from which we can draw conclusions rather than interpretations? It is true that our deficit, if spoken of, is smaller than the deficits in some other countries, but we have not yet arrived, Mrs Dragutinovic, to those risk areas in which other countries were located when they had to react and why they raised their deficits. What about all these bank taxes? Will banks reserve money this year, as did the previous two years? Or they'll start acting in accordance with the rules of the financial market that are neglected here, and respected in the rest of the world. How is it possible for Serbia to be the only country in which no company has ever bankrupted, no mortgage has been activated? In times of crisis, for example in the housing market, this crisis is not visible. Let's think about it, not making a difference before a society that is not referred to these details and not hiding behind public debt, but saying that we are seriously threatened by the economic policy that is being conducted in this society and which has raised this society's debt to 80% of the value of all that we create in one year. In the bar we lived in the last two years, nothing fundamentally changed, and that's why we can't support this rebalancing of yours. Not because we have something against the King, but we would like to get answers to these simple questions. In which place is the country's economic policy being formulated and with whom? Do they form in chambers of commerce? Is it formulating in Parliament? At government meetings? Where do these strategies go? How can we talk about budget rebalancing, and at a press conference from the prime minister we hear that he formulated "strategy 5 and" by 2020? It's nonsense, nonsense, and the crisis is serious, and you don't allow anyone to help you solve this crisis, even if they're going to run for ideas that you need to plead for. We cannot lead a new economic policy without a comprehensive change in our policy. And that policy isn't what it says. For two years, we have a European coalition in power, but the coalition is such that it destroyed almost all DS partners, and affirmed the idea that in Serbia it is possible to do everything, leave the 20 years of politics that has created chaos in the country and be free of any responsibility. That's why you can't move today, in fear of the political positions you're in. The finance minister can't tolerate it. When we ask the question of why you left the pension fund reform, then there is an answer – we cannot allow unions to have the same request as the opposition, which requires our shift and resignations. So, for a year, we will be in a position to tell this society in 2013 that there is no more – not the Pension Fund, but the economy in which this pension fund is paralysed because it was previously destroyed. A question of perspective for young people can only be raised as a question once in the government's mandate, when the government comes before citizens with its plans. There's no perspective here for young people. There's no money for education. There's no money for the university. Our students strike in the streets, ask to be on budget funding. Why can't students get what everyone else in Serbia gets? If Jat can get tens of millions, as a failed company, then we have to offer a logical explanation to these young people why they can't appeal to that right that belongs to everyone else. Do you need a student party to get into Parliament and start blackmailing? It's your feudal community, then. There's no support for budget rebalancing. I'm sorry we're talking in this atmosphere. We're always in the mood for debate, but about the essence that requires a much more serious approach than this one that is characteristic of today's power.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-23-0.u47262	Thank you. National MP Zoran Kasalovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-23-0.u47263	The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the 2010 budget of the Republic of Serbia and the 2010 Financial Reports of the Republic of PIO Fund and the National Employment Service certainly distinguishes the government's policy and measures in the area of the public balance of the Republic of Serbia. It undoubtedly reflects the current economic situation in which our country is located, but also the objective negative circumstances caused by the global economic crisis. Our country faces real problems in the functioning of the economy, which are directly reflected in the budgets of the Republic of Serbia, the province, cities and municipalities. It is logical that, firstly, the budget rebalance must react in order to adapt the volume of public spending to the emerging situation, which, as I have already said, is further devastatingly complicated by the fact of the elements of the global economic crisis. When it comes to rebalancing and changing previously-balanced funds, it can always be objected to for several reasons, including this rebalance, although this rebalancing is essentially not a statistically significant deviation from the planned 2010 budget. Some objections could, first of all, concern the frameworks of this budget rebalance, which are incomes at the level of 660 billion and expenditures at the level of 780 billion dinars, which produces a 120 billion deficit, which is now higher by some 13 billion dinars. However, it should be said that this deficit is in some way expected and agreed with the IMF and it moves within the framework of an agreement of about 4.8% of the gross social product and, of course, I expect that, with the application of the fiscal rules that we have adopted and installed in the Budget System Act, this deficit remains under control and dynamics of the envisaged fiscal rules to bring one acceptable level. Of course, if we are politically responsible people, we need to be aware of the situation in which the state is located, but to find certain macroeconomic indicators that are more favourable at the moment than the macroeconomic indicator at the time of the adoption of the Republic of Serbia's 2010 budget. First of all, it should be pointed out that after a period of recession in 2009 and a significant decline of slightly more than 3% of gross social product, the observed recovery, and it was moving in the first term at a level of 1.2%, and by the end of the year, as we heard and as expected, it will be around 1.5%, which certainly makes a significant result for countries in the region and it is not a result of chance, but rather of one elaborate work and measure that the Government of the Republic of Serbia brought and implemented during 2009. Of course, this should also be mentioned in the recorded growth of exports of goods of 21.1% and slightly slower growth of imports of goods, which produced that the external trade deficit was reduced by 4%. However, we must be careful and keep in mind some data which is certainly slightly and worrying and I hope that the Government will take them seriously in 2011 and take certain steps and measures in the coming period to get rid of them. First of all, we all understand that the biggest problem is to increase the number of unemployed, which is certainly the result of the global crisis, of insufficient economic recovery, but, of course, the lack of investment. As an even more serious problem, which follows us and awaits us at the end of the year, is the leap of inflation from the planned and agreed framework of plus minus 6%, which at the end of the year will definitely require a certain reaction from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the National Bank of Serbia, and we expect the government to focus fiscal policy on reducing public spending and saving for all budget users, which means that the freezing measures we have confirmed by this rebalance, but that as a primary priority, when it comes to monetary policy, maintaining price stability. Respecting until now, and within its responsibilities, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has been forced, logically, to set out above all certain priorities in the frameworks that are possible and which give fiscal space, and budget rebalancing is certainly the government's starting point in order to adapt total public spending in the current situation and the economy of the Republic of Serbia and the economic situation of the population, the taxpayers of the Republic of Serbia. When we talk about priorities, it is clear and has already been repeated several times during the principle debate, the main priority of this rebalance of the Republic of Serbia's budget is social protection, which has been allocated to about 5.3 billion dinars of additional funds, and it is aimed at childcare, fighting and disability protection, social assistance to the most vulnerable part of the population, and, if we consider all that I have said so far, it is also the logical commitment of the government. Of course, additional funds amounting to seven billion dinars for regular pension payments and one-off pensioners have been allocated, which certainly represents one of the key aspects of this budget rebalancing. An extremely important topic for the state and our citizens is the functioning of public finances in changing conditions at local level because the funds are now available in a much smaller scale and the reduction of funds is certainly more pronounced in terms of the consequences of the achievement of certain constitutional and legal functions which are the competence of local authorities. For this reason, it is certainly an obligation for the Government to constantly monitor the functioning of public finances at the site, and with this, it is also an understandable decision to provide additional funding for this rebalancing amounting to one billion, on the principle that 500 million dinars are allocated to all municipalities and another 500 million dinars to municipalities with low budget revenues. Of course, we expect that, even after the reactions of local self-government, the Permanent Conferences of Cities and municipalities, and above all a large number of municipal presidents, the Government of the Republic will realistically look at this debate that exists in the development of certain municipalities and more realistically distribute these other 500 million dinars relating to the most underdeveloped municipalities and that there will indeed be one acceptable criterion. Given that these days at least I have not had an additional reaction from many of the presidents of the municipalities, it is possible to expect that these funds will overcome certain problems that existed in municipalities due to the reduction of transfer funds. In this place, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity, and the SPS-JS Parliament Club has already presented this several times, and it seems to me that we have also done so when adopting budget rebalancing for 2009, given that the situation in local self-governments is such that these reduced budgets, with reduced transfer funds, do not allow and do not allow space for investment in local self-governments, we consider and propose to the Government to seriously consider the possibility of stimulating and issuing municipal bonds by municipalities, which is one of the ways to activate the possible resources of domestic investors, which would be the initial means, so that municipalities can invest in the construction of water lines, heat pipelines, communities and other investments for which at this point the municipalities do not have sufficient resources. Of course, with the appropriate legislation, but there is certainly one of the shortcomings now that no amendments to the law on the financing of municipalities that should be returned to municipalities have been adopted so far. In my view, the government should overcome this procedural deficit and find a way to get a little more courageously into this possibility to provide additional funding to the municipalities and to be guaranteed to future investors. Practice in developed countries shows that many infrastructure investments are realised by the involvement of capital from insurance companies, so why not also implement such a thing in the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to education, you, Madam Minister, said that there was a little more funding for education and that education had been given more space. An additional 890 million dinars are the necessary funds, but I want to say, and my colleagues will talk more extensively about this in the discussion of the details, that these funds do not assure us that education is, in any case, apostropheeded as a priority in this rebalancing process, and we really believe that with these means, the Ministry of Education will not be able to carry out some of its basic obligations, primarily to pay off profits in basic, medium and high education, then some questions in the domain of student standards and in terms of severance. It seems to me that there may be some problems in the functioning of this ministry, and that is why we have submitted the amendment. I hope you will have the understanding and that in agreement with the Parliament club, but also in further consultations with the Ministry of Education, you will find a way to provide additional funds for this ministry and thus ensure normal functioning. Besides this, we'll have three more amendments, but colleagues will talk more about it in the discussion of details. When it comes to the extra money of 650 million dinars provided for in milk depletion, the decision is understandable because citizens are faced with the problem of milk supply. This provision of an additional 650 million dinars is certainly good, it will speed up something at the very beginning, however, it should be invested in agriculture and some positive experience and good practice should be used from countries in the environment, especially Croatia, where it is a very good way to make sure that the government certainly takes care in the world that there is a trend in increasing the price of wartime products in the world and that therefore there is the possibility of spilling these high prices and that, by predominance of milk, it should be provided with a realistic input to cattle farming so that it does not spill over to the price of milk, and that ultimately, the consumer will pay through a high price or simply through the inability to buy that milk. This is why we expect that agriculture will earn attention and should certainly be invested in it. We appreciate the government's determination that, recognising the good work of the Ministry of the Interior and the great activity in curbing corruption and crime and the almost daily work of members of the Ministry of the Interior, who often put their jobs at risk and their lives, allocate additional funds from one billion, of which aid will be paid to police officers of tens of thousands of dinars. They certainly deserve it. Finally, I would like to point out once again that several times we from the SPS-JS Parliament Club stressed, that even in this rebalancing, traces can be found in revenue sources, especially when tax revenues are at stake, the basis for serious action and steps being taken to strengthen the tax administration further materially and in any respect, and could deal with the large tax evasions that exist in the Republic of Serbia, and the data suggests that they amount to around 30% of GDP, unlike 15% of GDP in developed countries. In addition to this fact, it may be one of the indicators and a reduction in income based on the income tax of citizens. We believe that the fight against tax evasion always deserves attention and that it is always time for it, and that we also want that idea that you were talking about, Madam Minister, about the possibility of reforming the tax system, if necessary, to be kept on the alert and to consider, in order to have a quality tax reform at some point. The debate on budget rebalancing is always possible to politicise, but it is evident that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in the context of available opportunities, has demonstrated in this proposal the intention to preserve macroeconomic stability and create conditions to bring public consumption closer to the real opportunities of the economy and the population and, of course, ultimately, provide basic conditions for the functioning of state and other bodies that are budgetary users. That's why I think this budget rebalance might have an estimate that it's socially balanced. Of course, these four financial laws regarding the rebalancing which aim to quickly respond to the government, strengthen confidence in the banking system and preserve financial stability deserve attention, and the SPS parliamentary club will vote on all these proposals in principle and in the voting day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-23-0.u47264	The People's Messenger Vlajko Senic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-23-0.u47265	Dear Minister, the Honorable President of the Assembly, honourable MPs, I think that this debate, which takes place without direct TV, is another argument that they should not be removed, because it is obvious that when the transfer is not available, there is no interest in any major debate. I want, once again, as a member of the Finance Committee, to express my gratitude to the Minister for being at the Committee's session this morning and for giving us some further explanations on budget rebalancing, which in any case represents, I would say, the achievement of the budget that we adopted at the end of last year. I want to look back at the atmosphere that once ruled. We remember that there was a lot of skepticism in the National Assembly, even in the professional public, whether this budget was real, whether the revenues would be as much projected, there were a lot of comments that it was a pre-optimist budget and that the expected VAT revenues were too optimistic. However, if you look at the rationale of the rebalancing proposal and when we compare the columns of what is projected, the index that has been achieved now when we talk about rebalancing, you will see that these are numbers between 98 and 102-103, which says that the state already at the end of last year, regardless of the difficult economic crisis, had a clear goal of what it wants to achieve by budget and clear projection and revenue and expenditure. So this rebalancing largely fits into what was adopted at the end of last year, which is good, so we have a serious forecast and we can be, applying that same methodology, optimistic when we talk about the 2011 budget, and what we're saying today is, first of all, I would say, doing the social function of the state. So, at a time of severe economic crisis, some traditional economic, market models tend to turn aside, the state has to help the most vulnerable citizens, and you don't have much choice here, and we, as a Government and as a National Assembly, are witnessing that practically the state is more than necessary in some normal and healthy economic situation, and we are doing our social function with this rebalance, and we are virtually verifying what has been done in some past period. What's important for this country's credit rating and even for the integrity of the government is the fact that the IMF co-author, if I may say so, is the rebalancing we're talking about today and that we're about to adopt. This, at a time when Ireland, which has been represented for years as an example of what speedy and successful European economy means, has decided to address the IMF, further says that Serbia did the right thing when it asked the IMF in 2008 and disagreed, as said in previous discussions, that Serbia was late. It seems to me that Serbia is the first country in the region to address the IMF, and it did so at the right time. When we say that the budget is socially oriented by this rebalance, the question arises, and that is very important to us, whether the budget is reform. Of course, when you have a prominent social component, it cannot be a reform budget at the same time, and it, in any case, represents, in an economic sense, survival up to some better times, which we expect in 2011, which we can rightly expect based on economic indicators from 2010. So what is particularly important and encouraging is the third quarter, which says that some of our expectations about some growth of social product above 3% in 2011 is not unrealistic and that it can be something that we can project some economic developments in 2011. This is important because it will then allow us to have a budget that will be more reformal and less social. Because if one country is making rapid and courageous reforms, a small number of its inhabitants need the state to look after them socially. So our belief that what was happening during 2008, 2009 and 2010 was an adequate response from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Finance, to the stressed need for states to function much more in times of crisis than is necessary when the economic situation is normal and when the market in such a normal economic situation works in the best possible way. What's good and what's also seen in this rebalancing is that it's probably also pressed by this crisis and pressuring the public to reduce costs that may not be most necessary, the state has entered, I would say, in that one, the reform part. Not to the fullest extent, but to the extent that the reduction, or reduction of public consumption, reduction of administration, is always an additional decision whether to spend or not, and I think it is important to keep it in the course of 2011 and 2012. Because only by creating a clearly-oriented reform government will we be able to seek citizens' trust in the next election for a new mandate. That's why I think the issue of government reconstruction is the key thing. Perhaps not so economically, because we know that the abolition of seven or ten ministries, if we look quantitatively, will not lead to dramatic savings, will not almost lead to any savings, but it will be a clear political message that we understand citizens' expectations, that in 2008, when we formed the Government, the only task was to bring together all parties who wanted to keep Serbia's European course, and thus the government was large and massive, made up of 25 ministries, and that we then made some compromises that were necessary to maintain the basic path of this country, and that today, in 2010, the time was different. Therefore, the G17 plus advocates a radical reconstruction of the government, which will be a step forward in the management of funds and a step forward in order to bring as little social functions as possible to the burden of the state in the coming years. I also want to say that, according to our assessment, the state has been very active in the past two and a half or three years during the crisis and that the most important result of this liquidity pump activity is and, I would say, because of this, it is a much smaller decline in the social product during the previous year and this expected growth in 2010. Therefore, the support provided by banks to both the economy and the population through the subsidized loans is a measure that has greatly reduced the intensity of the economic crisis. Of course, you can never go backwards and count what would have happened if the state hadn't intervened, there aren't exactly that precise instruments, but I am convinced that the crisis would have hit Serbia and its economy and its citizens much more sharply. This is why it is important once again to point out that the role of the state was really crucial. What's also important is to support new investments. We talked about it a few times. Regardless of opposition disputes and one section of the professional public, support for new investors, for hiring new people, was a key lever to maintain the exposure of foreign direct investment to Serbia during 2010. Simply, we have created an environment that has led many investors to come to Serbia and invest, regardless of being a formal member of the EU, and it is certainly a mechanism that will retain the state in the coming period, to a greater or lesser extent. The biggest problem that arises is the issue of debt. If we're looking at the statistics, I don't think the state's in charge. She's below 40%. Mastric criteria say the state can have a public debt of 60% of the social product. Many European countries are above that. But what's worrying, it's a rapid trend that's happened in the last little over a year. This is the result of not state policy, but the result of the need in which the state was found because of the financial crisis in the world, there was a real decline in income, and the state, if it wanted to preserve the existing level of economic activity, had no other way than to allow increased debt to sustain its functions during that period. So we see this responsibility as an emergency measure, which was good and necessary. What is important and encouraging to us is the fact that just over a month ago we passed the Fiscal Responsibility Act and thus practically legally limited some future government debt to 45% of the social product, of course without restitution. Thus, the formula that we then adopted will bring some kind of budget deficit for 2011 to level 4.1. So that law works, it's not like the skeptics said it doesn't matter. As said in the introduction, it is important for citizens to say that Serbia is still a country that can be measured with its environment, that we expect next years, according to this plan that we have all supported together, growth rates after 2011 above 5% of the social product, that the EU's plan is between 1% and 1.6%, for the world is over 4%, but that we have to measure ourselves with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, where the aim of social product growth is also approximately 5%. It is the only way to maintain this trend that has been established, which is a new growth based on not spending, but on export growth, for the next ten years and thus to get a different Serbian economy. So, not an economy based on consumption, private or public, but an economy based on production, export, that our exports account for at least over 50% of our social product, not as it is today. But today, there are results that suggest that this will make progress possible in the future. What's a little pessimistic, but that's what the Minister made clear on the Finance Committee this morning, is the decline of these investments, but I believe 2011 is when red tape will bother people who want to work less. I'd also like to say something about the laws regarding the financial system, the banking sector, the deposit insurance agency. I would remind and think that we have submitted that amendment, I personally submitted it, to secure deposits on exports of up to 50,000 euros, that we have thus prevented one previously seen collapse of the banking system in Serbia, because you have faced at least three facts. On the one hand, people are looking at the collapse of leading world investment banks (don't know the citizens so much about investment and what the classic bank is), you have a huge financial crisis, you have pressure on memories of what was in Serbia before 2000, when you leave the money in the bank and you can never take it back again, and you have pressure, even in the Assembly, to the citizens to raise their roles as soon as possible, and I think that measure was crucial at that point to prevent that expected stampede from our banking system, which could seriously endanger it, and I think that in real life, it has passed the most difficult test. So we fully support these amendments to financial laws, because we think it's good that the state now, when there is no crisis and when we don't expect that in the next year or two such crises will happen, that when it happens again in the economy, which is logic, surely after some growth crisis comes, that the state has legal frameworks and instruments to act exactly as it is said, in principle of the lowest cost. So, the most expensive thing for the state is that, using this Deposit Protection Act, it pays people whose deposits would eventually be compromised if the bank went bankrupt or lost their work permit, and these solutions that give two more new instruments and enable what is most important to the citizens, not to worry about their roles, and that, if there are some problems, the state can solve it in the cheapest way possible. So, with great pleasure, we will support these amendments to the law. I would also say something, since we have brought together many points, on the proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of Export Development Canada under RTB Bor. I think it's important that the citizens know that the state has decided to launch a new investment cycle in Bora. So we had three failed attempts to choose a strategic partner. We don't have time to wait for a new strategic partner anymore, because it can happen that, waiting for Bor to get a strategic partner, all the potential to lose, so the government has made a good decision to go on one serious investment, consisting of a major part, it's building a new solvent and sulphuric acid factories, and another, a small part, which is investing in mining and metallurgy equipment. The citizen works, it is important to say that this is an investment that is truly substantial, totalling 175m euros, to be financed from the loan of the Canadian Export Bank of 135m euros and the Republic of Serbia at 40m euros, that the terms for the dollar share of the loan, since the amount of the loan is 101,250,000 dollars, the six-month libor plus 3,11% annual interest, and for the loan in the euro are six-month euros plus 3.11%) on an annual basis. What are the effects of that? What are the expected effects? Why does the state guarantee a loan? Why is he giving funds from his budget to start production in Bora and to improve? The effects are very measurable. As a result of this investment, we expect to increase the use of metal in Topionica from 93% to 98%. I'll tell you, it's on an annual scale of ten and a half million dollars new profits. Furthermore, the increase in sulphur dioxide use from 50% to 98%, which is at an annual level of $5.7 million. What's more important for the people of Bora than these $5.7 million, it's organic clean production. So, the result of this investment should be the Bor who will live in normal conditions, where children will be able to live normally. It is also an important thing to increase the annual production of gold from the current 350 to 800kg annually, which is an increase of up to ten million dollars annually. So the total effects are $26.2 million, and that is certainly something that is good news for both people working in Bor and for the whole city, and the company with which the government has made an agreement is one of the world's leading companies in the area. These are, I think, good things and I believe that all that we vote on at this short session is an indication that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, despite the difficult economic crisis in which it is doing its job, is really doing a very good job. Therefore, our full support for these laws and the expectation that next year will allow much more space for reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-23-0.u47266	Thank you. Gentlemen of Parliament, you have received the resignation of Slobodan Maraš as a member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and a report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly on the examination of this resignation, which found that the resignation of the case referred to in Article 88(2) of Article 88(2) of the Law on the selection of MPs and proposed that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(2) and Article 3 of the same law, determines the termination of the term of office of this MP. In accordance with Article 88(2) and paragraphs 2 and 3. The Law on selecting Members of the People, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Board, finds that the term of office, before the end of the time of his election, was terminated, was elected to MP Slobodan Maraš, elected from the Electoral List of the LDP – Cedomir Jovanovic, on the day of his resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, a vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. Do any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dragan Stevanović, SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-23-0.u47267	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we cannot quite agree with what the representatives of the assembly majority have said, and for God's sake, Mrs Dragutinovic, it will not be in this very law to write what you said in your opening statement. If you wanted to understand that it says what you said, you had to try a little bit harder, but as we experience what is written here, I will try in the time of the authorised representative to say, and later or tomorrow the MPs of the SRS will try to point out some things that may make this rebalancing even scandalous, which is why this rebalancing can't accept even part of the congregation's majority, even though it might raise a hand for him, which is why this rebalancing can't accept the opposition and a good part of the professional public, which is why you wouldn't accept this rebalancing, but as part of the government, as someone who isn't a professor and a man of science, but a politician or a minister, you have to, and unfortunately, you've got one unpleasant obligation to put all this on paper and to defend. Some things really don't make sense. You said – the policy of freezing expenditure, and here in two-thirds of the money is provided by the rebalancing of the real expenditure. But not those healthy, normal expenditures, not the expenditures to be created and made, but the expenditures that are, in their essence, consumption. What's gonna happen to the money you're gonna put into retirement or some other social benefits? It's mere consumption, that's what you eat, drink, settle some small debts, etc. And we're getting our heads pierced by the government about a new model of growth. Let's at one point make the loans for consumption, to raise the economy, to go a few months, to stop it, so part of the economic public is hired to create a new model of growth, which will be based on savings, on exports, etc., and then we're doing budget rebalances that we're actually providing funds for mere and naked consumption, ordinary consumption. I don't get it now. Saving policy – seven million for the European Integration Office. What did we get from them? What's been paid for? Nothing. Absolutely nothing. Saving policy – there is no public expenditure. Four million for the exchange rate difference in the regional school of government. First we criticized you for even agreeing to something like that. We wouldn't have to be a member, nor would that regional school exist if you hadn't given consent to it, so you had to provide funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget for one senselessness, because our state administration, and if necessary, has enough human resources to develop on its own. It is only a matter of political will whether we want it or not, and you yourself know your level of administrative capacity, from the ministry to the last local community in Serbia. And now for membership in one such institution we provide an additional four million dinars in the name of course differences only. What kind of investment are we talking about, what healthy consumption, capital consumption are we talking about? It just doesn't stand. It's not like that, and things have to be called what they are. It would be much easier for us who in opposition accept what you serve us if you looked at things through the prism of reality and reality in an objective way, the way they are. You can't tell us it's Saturday. You can't, because you don't believe it either. You say – subsidies to investments. How much money from this rebalance goes to the Ministry of Infrastructure? What kind of investments are we going to finance in this sector? We've proposed an amendment. Here, you want to invest in investments, invest, let's make Corridor 10. The president of Serbia is giving you lessons anyway. Today they will line up the ministers who are in charge of it - until they arrive with Corridor 10? The European government in Serbia has been talking about Corridor 10 for ten years, the president remembered today to line them up, in the evening of the election. He remembered well, in time. What else did you say? It's very interesting, this statistic and equilibrist, what all statistics can do, so we came up with a 4.5-5% growth, so you said just now. Certain statistical budgets shall come to that. Now it's growing and exporting, and now industrial production is growing, and on the other hand you have inflation at the upper border, you have dinar depression. What's the problem? If everything in this country is growing and moving along the path the government wants to introduce to us, where does depression and inflation come from? They didn't come from the sky. So, there's something in here that stinks. Why are pension funds missing? Because the incomes on the basis of taxes and contributions from employees fell. How can industrial production grow in the country, exports grow and employees fall? That maybe we're not introducing new technologies, new investments, so what we used to do with 1,000 workers today is doing 50 workers with modern machines? And then you look back at the investment revenues that you projected at the beginning of the year to be 1.4 billion. We've come to 500 and a few million direct foreign investment in the state, barely. And now we represent this budget – that's great, here's the government doing well, it can't be better. We are not unaware of the situation in the environment, as you said - the external economic situation, in which the region is located, the environment. But the answers to these government challenges don't come in an adequate way. You, Madam Minister, know very well what the position of the SRS is when it comes to the IMF and how we feel about our arrangement with the IMF. But the government of the Republic of Serbia has put us in a position to believe that they are a "kind mother" for you. If it wasn't for the IMF, you could think of what this would look like. What kind of state are we if your limits are set by the IMF? They don't do it because they love you. We were taught here the other night – only interests. They have interests in taking interest money from here on the loans they gave you. But what is it with you, what kind of government ministers are they when the Jaeger limits set for you? And then we adopted budget rebalancing when the fourth audit passed, when the IMF gave its consent. This state, Madam Minister, has become an economic protectorate of the IMF. We no longer have economic sovereignty, definitely. And these documents are proof of that. You can make them up and represent them any way you want. We can only imagine what's waiting for us next year if we're looking for the frames for next year in this. Now imagine, at the beginning of the year, you projected a 4% deficit, and then you couldn't do better, so half the year you asked for the deficit to be 4.8% and now you're boasting that in 2011, the deficit would be 4.1%. Everything indicates that industry and exports are growing, but we increased the deficit compared to the previous year by 0.1%. How is that possible if investments are good? If you reduce or brake or stop public spending, how does that increase the deficit? That your science can't explain, but that's the problem. Because this is a political document, you said it well, but it's an unreasonable policy that's embedded in it. That's the problem. Maybe science would give different answers, and maybe it wouldn't. Now one question about the laws that are being adopted along with this budget. If the picture is such that everything is growing, over the past years and years before that, years of economic crisis, there has been a story here all the time about the stability of the financial sector in the capital market, banks are safe, stable, everything is okay – why are these laws? Are we expecting a new crisis? Do we expect something in the financial sector to happen? Or, the second question - do you think that this document has the capacity to respond to the challenges that the state will face if you come into a situation to apply the laws that we will adopt, such as bridge banks, etc.? Would the state have the economic power to resuscitate and assume the obligations of banks that would eventually fall apart? Or is the only reason to take over a hundred million from the World Bank, because it's a condition for the set of these laws to be settled and done? What's the problem? It can't be like that. I told some of them, and now I'm going to say, not to you, Madam Minister, but to everyone, and to the public -- the state is a serious thing. A state like this can't be managed. You can't talk on the one hand – sustainable development, capital investment, etc., and that reality through the exact data points to something else. What do these documents have to do with sustainable economic development? Now we're going to go right through the numbers you mentioned. What are we gonna do about agriculture? Says Mr. Minister - our development opportunity. We'll raise our development chance with 600 million dinars. We're putting out a fire on the milk market. It is a sad country where agriculture is a developmental opportunity, and the main agricultural export product is corn. Poor country and its development. Instead of selling junetine, selling milk to your EU (they will not give you permission) to sell anything else, you export corn to them. You will bring the state to the conclusion that it will have neither wheat nor corn for itself next year. It's our developmental chances, and here with 600 million we're going to put out the fire that a monopoly made. So bring in the regulation that you want to kill ten small producers. Here I have the regulation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the punishment under this regulation for a small producer who employs 20 people and is directly, indirectly, dependent on 300 people, 300 agricultural producers from whom he buys milk. It bothers him with the state regulation he wants to deal with, apparently, Salford. That's not how politics is run, at least that's what the SRS thinks. With 600 million dinars, you won't do anything, you know it well. Serbia can have milk, but not because it is good production, you have reduced production to 1910, and milk can have because it has dropped the purchasing power to the people. The people have no money to buy milk, so on an annual level one man spends a hundred and some liters a month, and in your Europe 400 and some liters. But not because we're stupid, so we don't know we need milk, but we don't have the money to buy it. And that's the denials of this government work story, how everything is good and how great everything is. Then "Fiat." How much longer in Fiat to invest? Does this state know anything else that they're investing in except "Fiat"? Not to mention subsidies, "start ap" loans, etc. Do we have anything else? And that's where we proposed the amendment. What kind of investment is that? Well, we didn't need the Fiat at all, we could've financed it ourselves and ended it. I'm not saying it shouldn't be done, but what did the cooperative feel from that "Fiitata"? Where did it go because of him? What did he pull behind him? Where are the benefits of the state from so much money spent? There isn't. And not only does it not stop, but it goes on. And the real sector, those who carry economic life in Serbia, are left to themselves. So the state raises the reference interest rate, so it makes it difficult for them to get the conditions under which they can and can't be owed. They don't have a chance to be in debt anymore. And of them we live. Someone mentioned when and how VAT is paid. They're lending you. I'm saying this from personal experience, because I've been doing some private business, so I know how the 11th comes the inspection, so 100,000 dinars are fine because the tax isn't paid. But at the same time, the same state didn't invest a dinar to settle liquidity, from administrative, so I don't even know what question to solve and start something, that those who carry an economic life get a easier and more acceptable business and economic environment. All investments in "Fiat" - millions, trucks, as they say. Now, indeed, Mrs Dragutinovic, I must discuss something also here. Since the beginning of the debate, from that fourth revision of yours, as it is already called, with the IMF, to the day of today, all of you who have commented on the rebalancing, there's only one thing you haven't mentioned here. You mentioned it very discreetly, and I am convinced that you did it very tendingly, because you know what it is, don't blame me for what I'm going to say – madness, which is providing funds for some old debts to the city of Belgrade. It doesn't matter if the money was given to the city of Belgrade or not. Two billion and 600 million dinars will receive the Belgrade city building land Directorate from the Republika Srpska budget for a clean abstraction. Why? You, Mrs Dragutinović, said in an interview, the title is: "I don't give money for elections." I'm deeply convinced that's how it's gonna be. But then a budget rebalance arises in which, on behalf of the debts of the republican authorities, two billion and 600 million dinars from various users are due to merge into the Building Land Directorate of the Republic of Serbia's budget. That's the money you're gonna spend on the campaign. It's proof that the election campaign is starting. The best money gets out there and they wash there. That abstraction could have waited. And these are debts until 31 December 2009, without 2010. That's what it says here. That's what I read in rebalancing. Now watch out, respected colleagues who will vote for this – 600 million for agriculture, a billion for all municipalities in Serbia, 500 million for all, including 17 Belgrade municipalities, 500 million for the endangered, and only for the Building Land Directorate for Belgrade -- two billion and 600 million dinars. Equal regional development. Great. Great. Laugh and vote, what to do to you, but it's a cruel reality. You'll be sharing 500 million specifically threatened municipalities. You only owe the trade to 120. You estimated the damage after the flood at 200 million, and you gave them 80 million in goods and money. Not to mention the damage to the King. Only one of the poorest municipalities in Serbia, you owe 120 million, but that's why two billion and 600,000 to pump up in Belgrade, to provide the 2011 election campaign, thank God, but no one talks about it in the rebalancing process. That's more than a third of the money you've defined, by law, to link the work experience to those whose bosses you're unable to force or not to make them pay their taxes and contribute. It's those tycoons you're making economic forums with, etc., the ones who call you president on TV, so the president's threatening them as something. It's not good for them to call him, but they kiss God on the embassies of the embassy, from Canadian to British. There they all hug together, and some quasi-positioners and opposition and Mrs tycoons and foreign ambassadors, etc. Mrs Dragutinović, we can't support this. This is not good, this is economic nonsense, this is something that can't promise a good perspective, an even less good 2011 budget, and it won't make this country able to overcome the challenges that will fall on it in 2011, as your party president said. Therefore, the SRS will not vote for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-23-0.u47268	Do any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) In this case, we move on to participation in the work according to the order of MPs declared for word in the joint principled search at points 1 to 7. We have a deal to work, orientational, until 2:00. I give my word to MP Djordj Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-23-0.u47269	The Honorable Madam Chairman, respected Minister Dragutinovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, as the mandated SPS-JS representative said in his opening statement, the SPS-JS parliamentary club in principle supports the proposed changes and additions to the 2010 budget. I mean, there's more to it. First of all, with all the difficulties of the economic crisis, the government and this proposal confirm that it is successfully dealing with problems and that the main economic, financial and budgetary parameters are successfully held in the context of the main objectives set by the adoption of the 2010 budget. This proposal, in fact, represents one reality and it is true, it also has a social but development component. This proposal is trying to strike a balance between support for those who at this point are certainly most needed, when it comes to social giving, then incentives for the economy, but also the realisation of major and important projects that are essential to Serbia. I have already said that this proposal represents one real picture, and it is true that this real picture is very clear that we need to save as much as possible, and we only spend as much as we have to and as much as necessary. It is true that Serbia has reduced to a certain extent, but it must continue to reduce public spending and it is true that the aim is to reduce public spending as little as possible to hit poor and economically weak populations. That is why, among other things, the priority and this proposal is primarily the protection of living standards, i.e. support for those who at this point are extremely necessary – pensioners, low-income employees, social benefit users, and this is in line with the permitted fiscal space. But, as has already been said, this proposal also provides for certain subsidies in the economy, which is also extremely important. The proposed changes are therefore necessary. They allow the state to make commitments to a number of budget users that it has taken over with a number of laws. At the same time, the Government of these changes, i.e. new and slightly larger budgetary interventions, responds to the growing social problems we face, especially in the most sensitive areas when it comes to pensions and social protection. Also, another positive side of this rebalancing is that the government responds to problems in the area of agriculture, especially when it comes to milk shortages, but continues to support the economy, especially in the area of industry. We consider this rebalancing as a necessary bridge, which in a more painless way will connect this financial year with the budget and economic policy next year, which we will very soon, hopefully, consider. We are considering rebalancing at the moment when we have more encouraging, I would say, data on overcoming the consequences of the global economic crisis. Although these results are modest in indicators, they suggest that we gradually and stablely overcome the crisis, even though its consequences, unfortunately, we will suffer in the coming years. However, what is particularly worrying is the further decline in employment. This year, I think, is about 3%. I would like to point out that, with all the problems of the economic crisis, we need to pay maximum and special attention in the coming years of employment. With this rebalancing, the state will therefore create conditions to meet all commitments in terms of social benefits, then regular pension payments, one-time pension payments to pensioners and employees in the state administration, and additional social protection has been provided, in particular assistance in 40 municipalities to provide social assistance services. I've already said, the incentive to agriculture is valuable, it's aimed at stimulating the milk market, but I want to point to two things when it comes to agriculture. The first is that monopolies never bring good. The second is that all are now making it more clear how much strategic support strategic support is needed for the development of livestock farming in Serbia. Three more things, in our view, are of paramount importance when it comes to this proposal. It is good to continue supporting the integration of employment, and additional funds are valuable to be allocated to municipalities and cities, especially those with lower budget revenues. Finally, we see that the government will issue guarantees and approve many projects and programme loans in the area of infrastructure and total economy. This could contribute to more investment, which means more employment in Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia, therefore, wants to have a responsible relationship with the King, but I have to make one conclusion and ask the question - the unfinished restoration and recovery after the devastating earthquake that hit Mionica and the Valjevn end definitely, Mrs Dragutinovic, is not a good and optimistic message for the citizens of the Kings. Again I ask you a question that I have asked many times so far – when will we help the citizens of the municipality of Mininica, the citizens of Valjev and all six municipalities of the Kolubar district? When are we going to help them restore and resuscitate what nature has taken away from them? If we continue with this intensity, and if we single out minor and minimal funds year by year, we have made some assessment that it takes 15 to 20 years to resuscitate what I repeat, to take away the citizens of the Kolubara County of Nature. This message is definitely not optimistic for the citizens of the Kings. What is very important is that the increased expenditures of the budget are in line with the IMF, i.e. that we are still within the frameworks agreed with the IMF. So, the fiscal policy of the state, when it comes to the third quarter, is in line with the agreement and it is true that it is not realistic to reduce the deficit very quickly, but it is clear that the government must comply with previously very precisely the adopted fiscal rules. Finally, I would like to stress once again that the SPS-JS parliamentary club in principle supports changes and additions to the 2010 budget. It is true that we have submitted four amendments, but we will discuss this during the debate in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-23-0.u47270	I thank Ambassador Milicevic. I give my word to Parliamentarian Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-23-0.u47271	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in short, in the time I have at my disposal, I will refer to a part of the rebalancing that is more relevant to the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja. This year's budget rebalancing is under very difficult conditions of crisis, so that, unfortunately, there are still no positive changes in the whole country, and in particular there are no minimal developments in the direction of revitalisation of the economic situation in the most underdeveloped areas. In the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, the economic crisis continues to deepen, the unemployment rate is in constant growth and has greatly exceeded both record, in fact, catastrophic 70%. The reduction of the position foreseen for the Government of Serbia's Co-ordination Body under the conditions of increasing the budget costs provided for by this rebalance proposal confirms my earlier remarks that the government has not yet had an adequate approach to addressing dramatic life problems in the Presevo Valley area. First of all, unfortunately, there is no clear concept for overcoming the catastrophic economic situation in this extremely undeveloped area, in which the Presevo municipality, through which Corridor 10 is also passing, according to the latest published data by the Republic Bureau of Statistics, and they have not been published since 2006, convincingly in the last place by level of development, with seven times less adjusted national income compared to the national average. It's interesting that the most, and by 19 million dinars, is a reduced social protection fee, from 80 to 61 million dinars. In light of the budget adopted for 2010, these funds should provide one-time assistance to persons with special needs, single mothers, children without parental ageing, for projects in the field of health and education, to provide scholarships to students, to support initiatives of the most vulnerable groups to speed up their economic level and to enable society to integrate. Does it make sense that in the most underdeveloped area, with a catastrophic social situation, as in the case of the most underdeveloped municipality of Presevo, which doesn't even have a folk kitchen, these limited resources could not be distributed? Is it possible that no project could have been implemented in the area with the lowest level of health care that would improve this important area of life? Not to mention the unfulfilled school projects in conditions where in the schools of these municipalities not only there are huge problems with textbooks, but there are also very difficult material problems. In these schools not that there are no school cabinets, but often there are no school benches and other, the most elementary teaching tools. It is known that the schools of these municipalities do not participate in transfers of other levels of government from the Ministry of Education, and then it is really unclear how these limited resources for such a wide range of needs remain untapped even for a quarter compared to the position foreseen by the budget for this year. This drastic reduction in social protection compensation The draft law amending and supplementing the 2010 Budget Law comes at a time when neither the Co-ordination Body nor the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has positively resolved the requirements of a few families of refugees who have decided to return to their homes in the Land Area of Security settlements in the Medvedja municipality. And what would happen if similar demands were made to thousands of refugees from the Land Area of Security, Presevo municipality, Bujanovac and Medvedja, who are in the dramatic period 1999-2001. In years, they left their hearths and the good part of them still has no resolved status in Kosovo, where they settled temporarily then? I have already asked the government a question on this very sensitive subject and I do not think that this problem can be solved only by drastic administrative measures of the MUP, which refuses to issue residences for Albanian family members in their native villages with an explanation that their houses are incoherent. They're really incoherent, but I guess there's something that needs to be done to make them inhabitable. The High Representatives of the State, once again from the MUP, cannot transfer the blame for seeking asylum in Western countries to transport agencies that carry out their legal action. And the problem of returning the evasive population and the problem of asylum that arises after visa liberalisation requires essential answers, which should not be reduced to the answers given by the administrative-burocratic structures of the government, and even less should not be given only through repressive measures. It is necessary to finally take a more serious approach to the realization of very important lenses set up in 2001 through the government's crisis resolution programme in the Presevo Valley, which at that time has been given the full support of the international community, notably the economic revitalisation of this extremely undeveloped area through which it is going through, I said for a moment, and Corridor 10, but also through the essential integration of the Albanian population into the state bodies and institutions, as well as the construction of multiethnic structures, both at the municipal, regional, or environmental level. To achieve these objectives since February 2001, the government has engaged its co-ordination body, the Co-ordination Body for Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja municipalities, but this process is very slow and only a year and a half ago have managed to include representatives of Albanians in this area. It is precisely because I voted for this year's budget to create a favourable and constructive atmosphere in the work of the Coordination Body, but I am truly disappointed that there has been, unwarrantedly, these reductions, without any prior consultation. It did not have to be consulted exclusively with me, I am not part of the parliamentary majority, but it was necessary to consult at least the Co-ordination Body Presidency on this issue. (President: Mr. Halimi, bring the end. ) In this way, we would continue to have a constructive atmosphere of solving serious life problems in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-23-0.u47272	Thank you. National MP Milan Nikolic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-23-0.u47273	Thank you. President-in-Office of the Assembly, Madam Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have repeatedly reiterated in today's debate that we are talking about budget rebalancing for 2010 with the conclusion that budget expenditures have been increased and expenditures will be higher than revenues. In the history of budget-making, very common and common situations are to predict a budget deficit, in order to achieve certain objectives with macroeconomic policy. In fact, the budget is a multidimensional mirror, which paints very precisely the macroeconomic economy of a country and the government's behaviour in making and implementing certain moves in terms of macroeconomic policy and I think that increased expenditure or that budget deficit is not in such a negative context if certain objectives are achieved. I'm going to give you two banal examples. If it's invested in the judiciary, so the judiciary is more efficient, the case is resolved faster, the number of crimes is reduced, and the process is very short, then it's a cost-effective investment. Or, if we start from a subsidy to the economy, and this subsidy results in an increase in production above all, an increase in exports and after all the increase in overall economic results, then it's a good budget, which was made to fix this situation. If we have in mind the business year 2009 and many of the problems the economic crisis has brought, admit it to me or not, the consequences could have been catastrophic this year, particularly on the social agenda, if the government of the Republic of Serbia has not defined budget and new measures to increase these social benefits to the most vulnerable layers of the population, but also to those where the personal incomes are frozen, above all to pensioners. I think there is a low social status on that plan, but what kind of social peace is still preserved, because we see events in many countries in the environment, where the impact of the economic crisis has been far stronger and the consequences are quite high. What encourages this year in realising the budget is that most of these economic indicators are in some trend of growth. It's good information that we have a growth in the physical volume of production by 5.4%. It's also very good information that we're growing exports by 21.1% in the first nine months. This country of Serbia cannot count on development unless there is no export. The long-term goal, and I would say in the short term, must be that 50% of Serbia's total production must go to export. Some of the measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in terms of customs releases towards the EU and CEFTA countries, according to major markets such as Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, etc., create assumptions that, if we properly introduce technology, these goals can be achieved that our total production of 50% goes to the CEFTA market. The expected GDP growth of 1.5% by the end of the year is also one of many reliable signs of economic recovery. It's extremely worrying that we have a drop in employment rates. Serbia is an unemployed country, with a large number of unemployed workers, primarily young people, and the measures the government of the Republic of Serbia has taken so far, primarily in attracting greenfield investments and attracting foreign investors' investments, have not yielded the expected results. We need to make every effort, above all, even stronger stimulating policy, even stronger and even more motivated, so we can attract that foreign capital, so that we can hire our people. I think that particular attention should be paid to undeveloped regions and areas, because very often it happens that what comes from foreign investment ends where the infrastructure, where the institutions, where the railways, highways, airports, etc., is very difficult to get into undeveloped areas. The plan should plan funding for the 2011 financial year so that we can realise the task. Of course, another worrying figure is inflation growth, which threatens to reach over 10%, a percentage that can completely undo the effects we have achieved this year. Inflation growth is primarily caused by rising food prices and some other costs. I think it is necessary for the government of the Republic of Serbia to pay particular attention to the plan, through the agricultural subsidy policy, above all, but also to other measures to do everything to ensure that the projected inflation rate is realised in agreement with other economic indicators in the coming year. It is not common and it may not have been good to combine the agenda points of budget rebalancing and a set of financial laws. However, I think that this part is in some agreement, and it is in the service of implementing economic policy and implementing many of the tasks that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has put before it. I can say responsibly, as a man who deals primarily with pragmatic business in the economy, if no measure had been taken to increase deposit insurance from 3,000 euros to 50,000 euros, the country of Serbia would have extremely large and complex problems, above all in the financial and banking system. I think that this was a decisive step, and moreover, by measures taken in terms of the complete security of depositors and trustees, complete control of banks and their business and rapid examination of their situation when it comes above all to over-indebtedness, pre-financing, etc., through deposit insurance, through the Deposit Insurance Agency and through the introduction of institutions of dedicated, special banks, I think it is in a very good way that the financial system, which is the first to be hit when the economic crisis is at stake, can fully ensure the smooth development of other economic elements for the successful business of one country's economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-23-0.u47274	Thank you. There's only three minutes left for the MP's group. MP Zlata Djeric is not here. The word is Sasa Dujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-23-0.u47275	Thank you. President-in-Office, honourable minister, ladies and fellow Members of Parliament, my fellow authorised representatives of parliamentary clubs, but also other colleagues who spoke about budget rebalancing, have quite a wide range of topics and have talked about many aspects that I would not look back on right now, especially since my fellow Members of the Parliament club have talked a lot about. I would refer to the social component of this proposal and make it concrete with social benefits through the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy in the field of martial law protection. In preparation for the rebalancing process, it has already been suggested to the Ministry on several occasions that personal and family invalidities may be at risk of not being serviced by the end of the year, and this rebalancing, according to these indicators, has been done. I have no doubt that the Serbian government will find ways and opportunities to provide for this category, i.e. to pay for all 12 disabilityes provided for by the Law on Combat and Disabilities Protection. However, the budget rebalancing itself has led to an additional 500 million dinars being allocated for these rights and, of course, by the suggestion of the resolution ministry, it is obvious that another 200 million dinars are missing for fundamental rights, although there are no other rights that have this category. Of course, on behalf of the MPs' club, I have proposed an amendment and I expect the minister to consider it and see which direction it can lead to solving this problem. But what I want to say more when it comes to this kind of giving or this kind of problem is that there is also the adoption of a new budget for 2011, where there will be more segregation given the increase in labour prices as of 1 January, and attention should be paid to this category. It is a bit specific, in many things demanding, but it is, in any case, one sensitive category of Serbian citizens, and it is about participants in the Liberation Wars. With this in mind, I expect the finance minister to consider this amendment and possibly accept it by the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-23-0.u47276	National MP Ivan Andric is not here. The People's MP, Jovan Palalic, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-23-0.u47277	The Honorable president, a respected minister, fellow MPs, is no doubt that the burden of this financial and economic crisis is most borne by Serbian citizens, of course, due to the inability of the government of the Republic of Serbia, but immediately after citizens, the greatest burden and problems in functioning have local self-government. In my presentation, I would refer to issues concerning the functioning of local self-government and the fact that this bill on amendments and amendments to the Budget Law, which is before us today, is a continuation of what we have seen since 2009, and concerns the non-compliance with the Law on the financing of local self-government in relation to the part relating to the transfer funds. Indeed, the question is how does the government's representative, Minister Dragutinovic, have the courage to come and tell us that an additional billion will be provided in relation to the total funds required under the Law on the financing of local self-government to provide. The fact that local self-governments on the one hand are reduced transfers, and on the other hand they have reduced total revenues, primarily those most important on the revenue side of the budget, of course due to the economic crisis, which is the income tax of citizens, the fact that we do not have a public property law that would allow local self-government to run development policy, and the fact that this government has led a very negative overall policy towards local self-government tells us that the government of the Republic of Serbia does not have any decentralisation strategy. For days we have been listening to the story of decentralisation, it has become a mantra of this government, and at the same time they do not realize and implement basic constitutional standards that can lead to full decentralisation and exercise of rights in local self-government. In the demagogue atmosphere, it is said that total decentralisation requires a change of constitution. Gentlemen of the government, first realize what the Constitution says. That's the fundamental problem we're facing here. And then when you don't have an answer to that question, so you're already campaigning by misleading citizens with a new story about decentralisation, regionalisation and changes to the Constitution, about a new situation where honey and milk will flow when the constitution changes, you come to us with a story of an additional billion dinars for local self-government. At the same time, Mrs Dragutinovic, you do not give us the way these funds will be spent. We believe to you that she will be justly deployed, the 500 million you speak of, which concerns all local self-government? Or how will the other 500 million be allocated? Why didn't you come here with such a decision so we could see how those funds would be spent? That's an additional problem and we don't see a different way to talk to you, except for the fact that you have to respect the Law on funding local self-government. In one of the previous discussions, you said it was impossible to comply with the law, that 1.7% of GDP cannot be realised according to local self-government when it comes to transfers. So, the government of the Republic of Serbia in public says it cannot comply with the law. Please remember when you said that, that it was almost impossible, that you didn't have the opportunity to provide these funds. The question arises to what extent the Government of the Republic of Serbia, breaking the law, breaking the constitution, not passing a key law from the Constitution, which is the law on public property, thinks it ensures the functioning of a local self-government that faces solving daily problems. No one thinks about development anymore. Today, on the Committee on Local Self-Government, State Secretary Vuk Djokovic said the public property law will be passed once the restitution law is passed. We're hearing about the restitution law from this government, and I think once a month, someone from the Ministry of Finance shows up to explain to us that this law will be passed, and that law is not even at the beginning of the draft. What, then, are local self-governments who need public property to seriously plan their basic functioning and development? We will see if the announcement by the Secretary of State on the Committee on Local Self-Government will be realised that 50% of the transfer funds will be increased (he said today, the people who are members of the Committee can confirm) in the budget that is now being prepared. In any case, the fact is that this billion, the one crumb you give to local self-government, and you've denied them 15 billion, you haven't defined how it's going to be spent, and it's just you that all the presidents of the municipalities and the mayors of the cities have pointed out that problem to you, but you ignore that fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-23-0.u47278	National MP Mladen Grujic is not here. Even MP Kenan Hajdarevic isn't here. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. I think if you agree, Mr. Lapčević and I will be done for tonight.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-23-0.u47279	Dear Presidency, Your Honor, Madam Minister, I would like to start by looking at the circumstances in which this debate is being held on amending the Budget Law. It is now 2.00 hours, the transfer has been delayed, and it is likely that Serbian citizens will be able to watch it after midnight. I really don't understand what is the motive for a post-poo debate in the late afternoon and that what was seen in the hour of transmission covers the rest of the debate that will be held after midnight. It just leads me to the conclusion that you want to talk less about this, and here's why. We in the Budget Law for this year predicted that the state of Serbia would incriminate 715 billion dinars and spend about 800. But we've broken through those numbers, so the state will spend a lot more than she predicted. In these amendments of the law, you stated that the state would spend 827 billion, and that the deficit in the state register would be greater than 120 billion dinars. When you compare that with the revenues in the state register, we come to the conclusion that the deficit, or what we spend more than we earn, will be about 16%, or one sixth of Serbia's total income. Negotiations with the IMF have repeatedly mentioned that in times of economic crisis, Serbia should reduce public spending, reduce administration, come to some macroeconomic laws on reducing the number of employees in the state administration, for a long time the story has been strained about reaching an agreement, we have also passed a Law on the reduction of the number of employees and we have come to the same thing again. Sorry, we didn't come for the same thing. We have broken that deficit again and, instead of the estimated 107 billion, this year we will spend 120 billion more than we earn in the budget. What can that lead us to? Just that the government is going to spend as much as possible, to release the valves in the next election year, of course, at the end of this year and early next year. With the announcement of the Telecom sale, those intentions are so clear, they don't need to be overly potent. Since the start of the government's mandate, since you've been the minister, this parliament has ratified over 40 foreign bank loans laws of around 3.8 billion euros. In this assembly, we will have four more laws on credit: bypass – 40 million, Railways – 100m euros, Borca-Zemun Bridge – 160m euros, Borski basen – 135m euros and, imagine, 40m euros will be taken by the EPS for the replacement of numbers. Is this country so incompetent that it can't replace numbers in households and in users, but for that we have to take credit? We will give this job in Europe to a famous company called "Sažem", which comes from France, as a large company that will teach us how to make numbers, even though we have domestic production. That's exactly the kind of concept that you run brings this country to the brink of ruin. If we borrow so much and spend so much money only on interest, and we don't have domestic production, we don't employ people and we don't have revenue in the budget, then it's clear what kind of scenario can expect us in a few years, when the principals come to pay off in 2013. It's no accident that the president of the state said a while ago that the state had avoided bankruptcy. The word is also being used slowly, so next time it will be – the state is not far from bankruptcy, and then in 2013 we will likely experience this bankruptcy. I'm afraid this is the kind of policy that you're running, with a senseless borrowing of the country and unlimited public spending, which you haven't even symbolically reduced, for example. By reducing salaries to ministers and state secretaries, reducing spending in ministries and other state institutions, it can only lead us to the fact that in the coming years we will have nothing to pay for the basic needs that the state has to pay – wages, pensions, various social benefits, etc. Finally, you sent us a message that the adoption of this budget would improve the supply of milk. I'd like to see our cow give more milk once the budget's adopted. You really said that. As you said in early October, when we discussed amendments to the Law on the Budgetary System and fiscal responsibility, it would never be broken again. And here's November 23-24, where's the draft budget bill for 2011? He's gone. Where's our 2009 budget realisation report? He's not here either. And we're going to continue as obedient pawns here to raise our hands, to approve that the state is spending unmitigatedly, and we don't have a budget realisation for last year, and we don't know how you spent those huge loans last year. Now we'll take back the loans. As my colleague Stevanovic said, the budget will set aside 2.6 billion for the Belgrade Building Land Directorate, and we will take a 160m-euro loan to build the Borca-Zemun bridge, a bypass credit around Belgrade, etc. And today, we have passed the Space Plan Act, which says that there is a huge imbalance in regional development and that regional development of undeveloped areas should be encouraged by the state investing in these areas. Is that an investment? All the money we took to invest in Belgrade. It is indeed a scenario that will lead this country to bankruptcy. We, of course, as a parliamentary group, cannot support this concept, and in the rest of the debate, my colleagues will explain it in more detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-23-0.u47280	I thank all the MPs. I thank you, too, Madam Minister, and Mrs Stojiljkovic. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00.
