ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42193	Because of the way the Rules of Procedure have been governed by the examination of the law, that first we talk about the law in principle, and then about the law in particular, we are forced to repeat some of the arguments that we have made in the principle debate in particular, not because it has been a very long time between us, so the arguments are forgotten, but because, in my court, this debate should be more elaborate, because the time that passes between us does not convince whoever we are talking about that his legal solution, which he is proposing here, is not good and that it is missing. In principle, before I talk about Amendment 1, I will use my time to say that calling for society to be brought to the law and to return it all back to some legal frameworks in the conditions of today's Serbia, is not clear enough or is not informative enough for the one we address. If the law were in line with the Constitution, if it were just or logical and it were in line with the interests of Serbia's highest public, the largest number of citizens, then the call to work by law would be meaningful. But if we in this room are passing laws that are not based on good practice, or on other people's good experiences, which are not based on any theory that's applied anywhere, and the next day we're called to do it by law, it's the point of law enforcement here at all. Mr. Jelasic, I ask you, who in article 1 advocates being independent and independent first of all, and in this capacity you expect any other co-operation, advice, to be a pressure on you – do you know, as one of the first people in this country, which is why Serbia will not be announced that it will face one of the largest foreign direct investments, where is one of the organisations, and it is called the Agency for the Business Register, signed up, please pay attention to the public and present, 1,753,000,000 euros of the company's non-financial capital? Why don't you announce this biggest side of direct investment, that the people believe that honey and milk, or gold and diamonds, will flow? What is the registration law for, what is the National Bank for, if it allows the Agency for the Commercial Register to register a single company, which registers non-financial capital worth a billion and 700 million euros? How much more than the state's gold reserves? Do you have any idea about that? Do you have any idea what you're planning to do with that? On one of these intriguing issues, which is likely to be a lot of stories, we can also open up a topic – who remembered today of the Shore Company, whether the essence of the Shore Company is where they pay taxes or, you, as a good student of the Faculty of Economics, you know, such companies are used to actually conceal the ownership structure. I'm talking about a company that's registered here that plans to issue three times the value of the bond, which will sell'somewhere', which will be bought for'something' and which will be bought here by mines (something has already started, an example of Bora is talking about), where the sources of geothermal energy and some real value will be purchased, and the fundamental question arises – is that someone pretends not to know the economy or deliberately create awareness of not knowing what the National Bank is, what is its basic task and what is, in fact, its independence? Mr. Jelasic, you, as a outgoing governor, know what I'm talking about and admire your beautiful and abstentioned look of face, because you're surprised that someone has the courage to talk about it at all. I, Jorvanka Tabakovic, a member of the Serbian Progressive Party, on behalf of the MP club "Forward, Serbia", inform the public that this home is used to talk about the laws that are premeditated that, in fact, the main things are done behind the curtain, such as the opening of the company I'm talking about, which is registered here. According to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, the National Bank is required to check the recording contract of this monetary capital, as well as by many rules, under the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering, which is our common law and the law of these institutions, under the Foreign Trade Act, according to laws that treat the area of monetary and other policies. You're declaring yourself incompetent because you know that the public won't hear anything about it, because the press, which would be obliged to be aware of the public's conscience, has long been "incarcerated", because you know that these sessions and arguments that are being held here aren't being seen much. Follow the reports and the ratings to the public. You think everything that's done will be able to be packed, like, in time, by the National Savings. I assure you, on behalf of the citizens of Serbia, that another job called bond printing without cover, use and possible misuse of foreign reserves we do not know about, or whether these bonds will be bought to them, cannot be repeated. If a state does that in the interests of citizens, it might have some justification. But if, on behalf of the state, someone who represents an institution, such as the National Bank or the Securities Commission, or someone who represents a company that can enter non-financial capital of close to 400m euros in non-financial capital, no one can swallow it anymore if they want to talk about a state that operates legally. You cannot be held accountable on the basis of independence for what your basic job is - to run a monetary policy that will have its negotiator in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which will define the goals in which many people will be able to find a job, not to lead it from one promise to another. This isn't a political story. If we live in a country where the deputy prime minister dares to warn any, any foreign company in harsh and harsh words today that it is not the time to behave, in the name of the Serbian citizens I represent, I will tell you – such a statement, which disintegrates investors, can give a fired, disgruntled worker, who does not work for women, who has no money to pay children's tuition and who cannot treat sick and old parents. But such a statement cannot give the deputy prime minister and that whoever wrote the laws on privatisation, implemented them, invited foreign investors, mumbled while they were watching his back, today represents the man who says – no, we do not need such foreign investors. We also need friends, we need foreign investors, but we also need respect for the law, always and everywhere, and not only when individuals go in favour or to harm, which at this point is the behavior of the government. It's not a private individual, nor are you, as governor, a private person. You represent, when you speak of the National Bank, at least as a outgoing governor, an institution that has to work in the interest of the state that owns it, which doesn't mean you have to listen to a warrant from someone who's not in the interest of a monetary policy. On behalf of all the theorists, from Friedman, who we have agreed on, and on behalf of all Serbian citizens, on behalf of an economy that cannot withstand the kind of monetary policy you have been implementing since 2000, especially since 2006, I ask you to adopt an amendment to Article 1, which implies that your basic task is financial stability, without replacing the causes and consequences when you talk about inflation and stable prices, and the primary goal of ensuring that this country is made progress and not only as many jobs as possible, but employees of people who will produce, create some new value and receive wages from which they will be able to fill the budget and live with a decent man. It's a basic human right. Not only is the right to freedom of life, movement, opinion and speech, but it's basic human freedom -- that man lives with dignity, earning, supporting himself, which will not be on the burden of the state. I ask you, not to rephrase the amendment, as part of the ruling majority has prescribed it, in half and on the surface, but as we have proposed as SNS, adopt it, because it is the interest of the people you represent and who we represent.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42194	The authorised representative has used 10 minutes and 30 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42195	We had to submit an amendment to Article 1. The bill and notice that the NBS cannot be independent. Because the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says it is independent but not independent. Don't use the word "independent." In the Constitution we have prescribed who all state authorities are, we have and precise, we have and descriptive, we also have by the spirit of the Constitution, so we have the Protector of Citizens, DRI, the Trustee of Information of Public Meaning. In public finances there is also NBS. It is impossible for monetary policy in some space to reflect the private policy of an individual, but, above all, it is a reflection of what is in the jurisdiction of the state. The NBS is a very specific state body, which, under the Constitution, is independent but not independent. Someone would like to be independent and have nothing to do with the Republic of Serbia, but take orders from abroad and work on the recommendations and objectives of the IMF. Since 2001, we have exactly such a National Bank of Yugoslavia, that is, Serbia, which has simply risen, almost respecting the sovereignty of the government of the Republic of Serbia. With this amendment, we wanted to remind the NBS, the Government, the President of the Republic, MPs in the National Assembly and all of our citizens that all that is in the jurisdiction of the NBS are matters of the jurisdiction of the State, which are entrusted to that institution that it is doing so in accordance with the Constitution and the laws. The NBS can't be independent. Because if she were independent, she'd be running her own policy, statistically showing positive results, as she does now, and people dying on the street. That's why she can't be independent and we have to tell all state officials that the greatest government in this country is the National Assembly, that the National Assembly can absolutely exercise power, that everyone has to comply with the Constitution, the law and the National Assembly. And to you, Mr. Jelasic, in order to be a vice governor, in 2000, because you had to get a job in a state institution, Zoran Zivkovic gave you assurance of citizenship, so today you got citizenship, and the next day you were elected Vice Governor. Why? Because the condition that you work in that place was that you were a citizen of the SRJ at the time. If we move that to today's terms, you have the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. Foreigners can't work in state authorities. That's why we want to define precisely what the National Bank of Serbia is. And you'll have to know, you from the National Bank of Serbia, that you're putting accounts here, that you get rules of conduct here, and what's the profession and what's in those individual policies that are in the jurisdiction of the National Bank, that's where you have that kind of independence. And not that you're independent, that you don't account for anyone, that you can lecture anyone. There is no law for you, nothing applies to you. And by this bill, you've gone so far as to be your owners. What owners? The Republic of Serbia owns it, it is the title of property. You too must listen to the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to property, especially when it comes to immovable property. The part about moving things, the money, that's another thing. We need to get order into the National Bank, so you don't fly too high. The beautiful president of Argentina advised the Greeks – stay away from the International Monetary Fund; while politics were being tailored by the IMF, Argentina, the minority, fell apart. Here, in a few years, they've been on their feet. They are not yet in what is ideal, as they wish, but have moved from the International Monetary Fund, started running sectoral policies that suit the citizens of Argentina and are recording good results. Why? Because everyone has to respect their country. You do business for the Republic of Serbia, not for the IMF, not for the Central Bank of Germany, not for the European Bank, not for the World Bank, not for the foreign business banks that have opened their exposures here, and are pulling, pulling. No, it's for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Your statistics, from the National Bank, must match the statistics of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. If the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are well, then you have led a good policy. If it's not good, that report of yours will be free of that site of yours full of praises and good words. All expertise is in the function of a better life of citizens, not in the function of achieving the interests of some from abroad or bankers or other soul traders. Mr. Jelasic, I hope, after this law, that all those who exercise power, in the National Assembly and other institutions, will appreciate a little more of the National Assembly and what the National Assembly decides, regardless of what there is a sloppy way of deciding here, but the one who is power should be power. Whoever has the majority should be responsible for everything that's been done. He needs to hear the opposition, he needs to accept what's acceptable, but he needs to put in order. If there's no order, then we'll have this situation -- all the citizens who have a job problem, in the ministry, so you're asking them to pay you out of the budget, because it became a form of behavior. This is due to such monetary policy. So, everyone in a working relationship, it's not a private company, it's a non-privatised, state, social, whatever you want, everyone in the ministries, and you're looking for an abbey. Because it became a pattern of behavior in Kragujevac, a pattern of behavior in Triestenik, a pattern of behavior in Bor. Let's, please, all of us at the ministry, get them to pay us, because now the state is the only employer. Budget is the only source of credit. That's what your monetary policy gave us for the score. That's how those in the government assessed your monetary policy. As much as you're looking to be independent and independent of this, it's an organic unity. Not only did you sterilize the money, but you also made the euro infertile. Mr. Jelasic, someone said -- 1,000-euro free shares, so people got 1,700 dinars. So tell me, what's the rate of the euro - 1.7 dinars? That's how it works out for you. You've also disrespected the euro. It's said -- this is, people, 1,000 euros in dinar equivalent. Went to the cash register and took 1,700 dinars. What is the course of the euro, Mr. Jelasic? It's not who you're talking about. We'll talk later about that policy of course and regime, see who's pulling, who's getting taken and what's little.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42196	Seven minutes and 10 seconds were used by a time-authorized representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the Governor Radovan Jelasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42197	I'll just take a minute. I want to introduce myself to the National Assembly. My name is Radovan Jelasic. I'm the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. So, I represent neither other institutions nor I represent other people, and I would like to talk today exclusively about the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, or I will try to give answers exclusively to my personality, or to the institution that I represent. As for foreign reserves, since they were mentioned and when discussed in principle, I want to say that NBS does not keep any part of its foreign reserve in banks that are in Serbia. Therefore, foreign exchange reserves are held in first-class securities of value, and as far as the cash part is concerned, the majority is still held exclusively in other central banks, primarily due to the rating of business banks, i.e. the extent to which it has changed. As for surveillance, of course oversight is done by the Assembly. That's exactly why we're here. In addition to the Assembly, surveillance is performed by the auditor. For the fifth year in a row, Oditor has given a clear opinion on the operation of the National Bank. We also submitted a report yesterday for 2009. So for that year too, we have a clear opinion. The Governing Council, whose members are also appointed by this congregation, also exercises oversight over the institution. After all, since we borrowed from the IMF again, their representatives and how they check, since we're in debt, what happens to the balance sheet, what about the National Bank's rankings, and there's also no criticism, no objections. I want to say that in this law, as so far, the Republic of Serbia is the owner of capital, and as far as independence and independence are concerned, we are, of course, not independent and independent of the law. Of course, it is the law that prescribes our basic goal, which is to achieve and maintain price stability, i.e. the stability of the financial sector and, thirdly, support the policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42198	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42199	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment to Article 2 in a legal sense is trying to correct one illogicality, so as not to repeat the same formulations in the same attitude. However, the legislator did not seem to understand this, and the reason for the justice is that its solution is more accurate. So the purpose of this amendment was not to repeat the same formulations. Also, the purpose of the amendment is, of course, to reiterate our intention that the National Bank of Serbia should be independent and independent, not only of the state authorities, but also of the IMF and, above all, of the Western banks, which dominate the financial market of the Republic of Serbia. What does that mean exactly? In the principle debate, we saw that there was no response by the governor to the letter of intent (on paragraph 6) that state ownership stakes in banks would be eliminated. We didn't get any answers. Why? - that's a special question. On the other hand, we believe, and this amendment has been submitted in this sense, that the NBS should show one kind of economic courage, because in public it has been announced that the average interest is higher only in the Republic of Moldova, so that the interest is equal to that of citizens. Not literally, of course. Don't take it out of context, as you did multiple times in the principle debate, but in the sense that it was published on an American official site, where black on white and figures shows that the average interest in Germany was 6.8%, in Italy 11%, in France 8.3%, in Belgium 7.3%, in Britain 4%, in the United States 5.9%, and in the same period in the Republic of Serbia, where you are governor, was exactly 18%. This cannot be justified and it is scandalous that, for example, Mr. Dugalić, who is the secretary of the Banks Association, if I am not mistaken, it justifies the senseless formulation that the receipts are small. Well, I guess if the receipts are small, the interest should be less. Also, not that we do not have a kind of economic and political correctness by those who lead the largest bank in the Republic of Serbia, but Mrs Draginja Djuric even announces that interest will increase. In that sense, this amendment was submitted. The real independence and independence of the NBS should be shown precisely in relation to the IMF and Western banks, which have over 75% of the market in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42200	The minutes and 15 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Branko Ljiljak. The National Bank of Serbia has accepted this amendment. In the order of amendments, MPs who are authorised representatives or presidents of parliamentary groups will see a sentence that the government has also accepted the amendment. The government can't accept the amendment of the other promoter, so I apologize for your mistake. The point is that the government has a positive opinion on the amendment, but the amendment can accept or reject only the draft act. On the basis of the Constitution and our Rules of Procedure, it is known who can be the proponent of the act - the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the MP and voters who collect signatures, as well as representatives of regulatory bodies, and the NBS. So the NBS has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the Governor Radovan Jelasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42201	The National Bank, according to law, does not make a difference in the ownership structure of banks. What banks will be sold, when and under what conditions, the owner, and the owner of those banks you mentioned earlier, was also a state. So it's the state that decides, and I'm sure you can get the right answer from the government's representatives why, when and under what conditions it's sold. As for the interest rate, to remind ourselves, it depends to the most extent, of course, on the inflation rate. I'm using your statistics because I don't have the exact source from where it comes from. So, at the end of 2008, inflation was, unfortunately, much higher in Serbia than in some other countries in the environment, and that was one of the key reasons why interest rates were higher. Currently, the rate of inflation in Serbia is lower than in Romania, Hungary and other neighbouring countries. That is why we are convinced that there will also be a reduction in interest rates in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42202	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42203	I do not understand why these two amendments to the SRS did not accept when they only improve this text and correct the fundamental error created by not knowing the provisions of the Statute. But, well, it's now a question of perseverance and perseverance to prove at any cost something that's unproven. Mr Jelasic, as we are already expanding this topic and we are talking, would you be kind enough to explain to the public that the AP Vojvodina Finance Secretariat, in a closed procedure, could buy new Metals Bank actions and become the largest owner of the bank, and the AP is not a state. You know, because capital owners decide for themselves, etc. How could you do that? Just to remind you, the one who took part in this and gave consent that it was possible, did so according to the Ministry of Finance. Let me remind you, he's under the spell, too, Miljko Stimak. Although it's impossible to define an autonomous province that has the attributes of the state. So, when the state is privileged, when it can buy out shares, it increases its capital in a bank (that's what the law allows), then the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is the title. How could the AP Vojvodina? And that's where you wrote down the Finance Secretariat. Mr. Jelasic, just to remind you, in October, you pressured the Metals Bank and asked to hire a man to spy for you in that bank. So the AP withdrew its assets, questioned the bank's liquidity. Apparently, you've taken steps. As soon as you seduced those measures, dispersed that leadership, set up new ones, etc., former ones, who also worked in that bank. And recently we heard that the bank was in charge of the Saric brothers, for money laundering. Now, Mr. Jelasic, who's the first victim of organized crime? Let's explain to the public how the AP can buy it under this privileged procedure, so it doesn't go out to others, it has the right to prevent buying, increase its capital to that bank, and what it has to do with Jerkovic and Saric and other things both with the National Bank and those institutions that fight against money laundering. Is that how you got the great misery to the Republic of Serbia? Because we're suspicious now. They're laundering drug dealers. Maybe the money ends up in terrorism, maybe end up somewhere else. I'm very glad when state officials who came to power after 2000 resign, and I'd like it even more if they went to jail. I'd rather they go to jail. I admit, I can't wait for the SRS to come to power and we'll take all your laws and start applying those laws. Press-clipping exists for every state official – and how much he paid for the villa and why under the same conditions he did not sell to the Nicics, Karics and others, and how well the grass is cut in front of the fork, and how it comes with two plastic bags and then it is heard that there is a fortune of 11.5 million. And now we're hearing about this Minister of the Saturday orthopedics having something to do with computers out there. That's what you discuss. Now you decide who's rich, how rich, why rich, how rich, how rich... But citizens need to know. We're a small territory, everything has to be known. Transparent, as you say. You came to us like an ace of ten, Mr. Jelasic. First, we can't wait for you to leave the People's Bank (I'm expressing my opinion). Why? The measure of your success is what happens in stores, in companies, in fields, in streets, on highways, in hearts, in the souls of these people. You're the standard. You've been protected for the past few years. No one was allowed to point a finger at you, because you and some of you are a ticket to a rich club where you can take the money to survive this situation. They sell everything worth it. You're driving people out of work. Statistically, we live well, 320 euros per capita. We're in charge of 560 euros per head. In these three years, we're in a hurry. The bright future is threatening us, we expect it. Serbia is stagnating. He is stagnating slowly, surely, and what he has said, We have fallen in dignity in every aspect. We have to call someone for it. We can't call rain, rain is natural elemental unsuitable. It would be a little weird if it snowed now, but ever since you came to power, you never know when the snow would hit. Anything is possible with you. You see a little bit of how these licking companies do to you, how many cars there are on the payroll, how many hijacked buses there are from privates, how many closed industrial plants there are. Yesterday, you could hear the city here and the day before yesterday. And the city hit us. Why? No missiles. Why? Well, you give so much modest money to those who need to shoot, and you didn't even secure the missiles, you don't care. Why aren't you interested? Because it's not an integral part of the financial market. You only deal with financial markets, you don't do other things. It's interesting to you what the bankers are going to say, what the business club is going to say. Will you be declared the best governor, the best minister on the planet, that's the most important thing. And what pensions are, what social benefits are, what they do, what they don't do, why they don't do - you don't care. And, now, the global financial crisis. We've been hit by a global financial crisis. We need to get rich here, as one minister said. The second one says-- we got out of the crisis statistically, except the citizens still won't see it, you know. That's what he said, that's some Prime Minister, he's supposed to be Prime Minister. And those are such nice messages. I could read to you here what the EU's chief man said, who's following these things that you're following. Be careful, he has told EU citizens what awaits them very openly. The message is next - the credit card shortages; forget more that it can be spent unearthed; it is time to pay back the debts; if we don't do it now, then EU children will have problems. And we're practically being irresponsible. He says that when we take reform, we must be completely open to our citizens. We need to tell them the truth, that a culture of life must end on a credit card, with borrowed money -- Busek said at the beginning of the European Union summit. Shake now. The EU - I said, which is being held today in Brussels. We have to pay the bill. Otherwise, we'll steal our children's inheritance, and probably their children's. That's what those from the EU say. They're not radicals, you know. We've been repeating it here for ten years, and you see, they came at ours too. We need to tell our citizens that we will have to introduce a longer working day (listen to what Europe says), that we are going to retire later (the younger one will cancel pensions) and live within our means. Mr. Jelasic, as part of your ability, not to throw yourself away with two or three million-dollar pitchforks. It's your 100,000 euros, Stan, not beyond that. There, Busek said, Mr Jelasic, EU member states, stressing that the situation in the European economy is worse than in the US and countries in rapid development. (President: National MP, please bring EU membership into contact with amendments and additions to the NBS Act. ) Mrs. Komic, it is a rare situation that we in the National Assembly have as many EU lovers as when Mr. Djelic and Mr. Radovan Jelasic appear. They just seem inspiring. (President: National MP, please bring the emotional attitude towards EU membership in connection with the draft law on NBS. I can't express my emotional attitude. Don't do that, please. I don't have any feelings for them. Please don't do that, Mrs. Comic. Don't say that. I'm a normal man. (President: National MP, I am not concerned with your emotions, but with the disrespect of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It's all within the limits of the bill, please. (President: No. Please, let's talk about the agenda. You say it isn't. Okay, when you say it's not, it's not.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42204	National MP Zoran Krasic used the total time of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group and two minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Governor Radovan Jelasic answered the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42205	I'll just take a minute. I don't know who Mr. Busek is, but what you've read, it's, like, what I've been saying for three years as a vice governor and, like, six years. But it's nice that finally Europe remembered to say what we've been talking about here for years. As for the bank in particular, you could have answered the recapitalisation, too. Bank owners can be: state, legal persons, natural persons, domestic and foreign. So we're not the ones who prescribe, it's a legal provision. And as for consent, consent is not given by the NBS (so at first I introduced myself to who I am and what I am) but by the Securities Commission. Our role was the only thing we asked for the bank's recapitalisation, so the taxpayer shouldn't support that bank. That, thank God, worked and at the end of the taxpayer didn't cost a single penny, as far as the bank is concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42206	The word has been made by MP Dejan Mirovic and MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42207	I don't think the governor and I understood about interest, and I also don't think his argument about inflation is overall. Because you know for a fact that the largest inflation in Europe was in Ukraine, if I'm not mistaken, over 20%, so there are less interest than in Serbia. Therefore, your argument is not on sound feet. You have not answered me about the banks here and you have avoided the reply to Mrs Draginja Đurić's quote, which I will repeat on 31 May 2010 literally said that the dinar interest will not fall. That's what I wanted to point to.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42208	50 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word is Governor Radovan Jelasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42209	As far as Ukraine is concerned, I'm guessing this is about grandmothers and frogs. So the interest rate can be lower, but then we're talking about a different currency. To remind ourselves, it is the same in Serbia. Depending on which currency you use, the interest rate in foreign currency can be, in certain conditions, and lower than the inflation rate. As for Ms Draginja Đuric, there is no need to comment, but the legal rule, the law of the market, is that, in reducing the inflation rate, in reducing the reference interest rate to the medium or long term, of course, interest rates are expected to be reduced to loans.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42210	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42211	Mr. Jelasic, although we agree on many things lately, I must remind you that you, as governor, were obliged to do much more than comment on the economic situation in the country. You may not know that Gerhard Busek was previously the head of the Stability Pact of Southeastern Europe (it is, at last, no longer important), but you came here to the Assembly as governor in resignation, you proposed to us one law that tells us, first of all, about the supreme mistrust of key institutions in our country (I mean the government and the governor), you took on commitments that no one else obviously wanted to take over at this time and, firstly, directly deny what you've been doing, and here I mean the public warning and the introduction of something that is completely new in our political life and which has not been the case until now, which has been the credibility of the National Bank (which, by your procedure, you've highly challenged), and then here in the Assembly, you've told us that, in fact, for the past three years, you've said something. You're not the only governor who's had trouble with the government. Greenspen also had problems with the US administration, Bernanki also, Rohatinski in Croatia has problems with the government, but the way they act and the way you act are different. You have satisfied yourself with being a proper commentator of the economic situation in the country. Then you resigned without any reason. Why was it difficult for you to explain your departure, and it is not difficult for you to come three months later to the congregation and propose such a law? We will discuss our amendment to Article 23, which fundamentally changes both the positions and responsibilities of the governors and the authorities in this country, the ruling coalition, so I will just remind you of that changed language of the law that you have proposed here. At this point, the governor is proposing to the Council, and tomorrow, under the law you propose, the Council will require the governor. The council will determine the dinar course regime. The council, which elects this ruling majority here, is the ruling majority who is able to vote that the country is a record, and you give it legitimacy. And that's why it doesn't matter what you say anymore. You didn't do anything to change the course of economic policy in this country, and then you decided to go quietly and do a favor to the ruling coalition and the future governor. This Article 23, which we have in the bill, can be interpreted in different ways. I'll tell you what it looks like to us. You were the governor who was stranded and left without any support, with a formal explanation that the government was not in charge of anything. By amending this law, the future governor will be able to call the government to account for something that doesn't work if she's convinced it's right. Remember how they suggested that you have to change your policy towards mandatory bank reserves, what suggestions you received from ministers in the government who suggested you release foreign exchange reserves, that you use them differently. You didn't have the government's consent in your policy of reducing public spending. You were, at one point, a proper critic. You have proposed a law that speaks of great mistrust and you leave now, as Mrs. Pesic, the National Bank, says in a position in which she has never formally been. It may essentially be, in certain stages, but in the last years of your work she hasn't been. She wasn't instrumentalized by the central government. And it is much more important than that you agree with Mr. Busek that you have decided to go in silence, and that you can quit the governor's post by such a law, which brings Mr. Šoškić to the position of fulfilling the orders of the ruling majority or, otherwise, they can do so without him, and on the other hand, he provides Mr. Šoškić with an alibi, through a message from the Government - do what you propose to me, I am no longer even a legal obstacle to you. I think we all have a problem with the environment we live in together, and given everything that's ahead of us, I think we needed much more personal courage if the governor is expected to be brave. I'm not sure the governor should be brave. That's what officers in the army or cops usually swear to. The governor is not expected to run into any barricades. But as governor, I think you were obliged to be like the market, subject only to life's interests, and life's interests are at stake here, Mr. Jelasic, and that's what's more important to us than consent with Mr. Busek. They're not the problem in this country's payment card. The problem of this country is an irresponsible government that would rule it without changing it. And you know it very well. That's why we have a ruined pension fund, which is why we have a ruined economy, businessmen who are looking for a strong dinar, and they're not going to work as they've done so far, and politicians you've done a great service to this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42212	Six minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word is Governor Radovan Jelasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42213	I'd just like to thank you for your remarks. Mr. Gerhard Busek, I know very well, since in December we were together on the same show on Austrian television, but I assume this is about another gentleman, the President of the European Parliament. As far as the chase is concerned, you're right. I probably didn't chase, but I think I've successfully defended and defended everything about the independence and independence of the central bank. I think it took a certain amount of courage. As far as this law is concerned, believe me, I would never leave my successor one worse law. This proposal to amend the NBS Act is a significant improvement based on all four key functions, as far as independence is concerned. As far as the course regime is concerned, he has been brought in with the government's consent. So far, the National Bank has proposed, adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and in the future the proposal comes exclusively from the Executive Board. And in the future, the Executive Board will lead a key role in what regime it is. I stress, this is about only one regime, and to what extent it will be used maximum, and in the future it will depend on the Executive Board.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42214	The word has been made by MP Dejan Mirovic and MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42215	I'll be very brief. Apparently, the governor does not want to answer specific questions specifically. I'm going to make another argument that the Intez Bank, which you're not going to comment on, has raised the margins for approved housing loans in May this year. That's the argument. You can lecture us, and no one is questioning your profession, but the truth is on our side.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42216	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42217	We don't have to agree, that's not the condition of our debate. Here, I speak to you at the level of language that is understood by my children. I'm talking about article 24, which is changing now. You know, you were the governor who proposed to the council. Article 24, which we are erasing, says - The Council, on a proposal from the governor, adopts the financial plan, adopts the annual accounts of the National Bank, etc. The new member of the 24th governor is obliged, the governor is a clerk, the governor has to listen and do what he's told; he will no longer be the governor to run his policy and we will not even listen to him at the "Cazard" on B92. That's what this is about, Mr. Jelasic. You didn't ask for the support of the reform forces in this country for the kind of policy you wanted to lead, and you couldn't lead at one point. That's our grudge. We've been leading some of our wars parallelly. Seven months ago, we were here in the Assembly looking for a pension fund reform. In spite of that, you, as governor, have indicated the unsustainability of a system in which 15% of GDP is retired. We have criticised projects such as the National Investment Plan or Utopia, which are exhibited daily through projects, for example, defrosting wages in the public sector. That's what you've been doing. You have never asked for the support of the reform forces in this country for a serious economic policy, and this law now binds the hands of Governor Šoškić, who, in turn, comes from an environment that is, in fact, the foothold and the wrong policy. It is the ambiance in which five votes are estimated to be worth 450m euros to break the budget. We don't think any politics should be opposed to reason. If there is no reasonable majority on one side, let it be searched on the other. The absence of reason cannot be compensated with half a billion euros. And then it's your fault at the end of the year because you can't defend the course of the dinar, not those who can't get anything out of Serbia. If they can, they don't have anywhere, because politics has been fighting us with all the markets where we can show up with our own goods. That's what this is about. Of course we'd like Mr. Shoskovic to be a good governor and we're finally not an obstacle to something like that. We, based on this law, first of all, see that there is fundamental trust between us. Why would someone take over the governor's job in Serbia today? It's not gonna end up on the cover of the Times as a person of the year, like Bernanke last year, for sure. So there's some kind of a dose of responsibility, but obviously, there's a lot of mistrust between us. This is a shame for a democratic government to tie its hands to the governor in this way. We will choose the Council here, elected by the ruling majority, the one who has adopted the Emergency Procedures Act on Chambers of Commerce that enters into force for five years, the one who adopts the budget with a month of delay. That's the ruling majority. Its logic of functioning is different from the logic of functioning a society that wants to be successful in transition and therefore we have mutual misunderstandings. It is the ruling majority who thinks the idea of solidarity and materialisation of justice can build a relationship with the business world in Serbia. No, we need clear rules and concrete and transparent interests. That's why this law was supposed to suggest someone else, not you, and we needed you more as a man who would say why he was leaving, instead of choosing to go quietly. And some other people have been going to Serbia in silence and kept quiet for 20-30 years, some of whom we highly appreciate. It is a matter of personal choice, but I think Serbia definitely needs the kind of truth that it has long had no right to, among other things, because the people who know this truth are keeping to themselves and going on their own path. We don't all have that choice. You may have, we have here in the Assembly, but millions of people in this country are doomed to her as she is. I think we have a duty to make it better, and we need a different relationship to the NBS, to the central bank. Not the absence of criticism, but definitely a completely different position of the central bank, which, like this, is part of the fate of all other institutions that the government has put on a neck boot, so it proves its importance by strengthening or giving way to pressure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42218	Five minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42219	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, firstly, as deputy head of the SRS parliamentary group, I must refer one reproach to you, Mrs Comic, because you have just said that one part of Mr Zoran Krasic's presentation is not on the agenda, that it is not on the subject and you have asked him the question of what the EU has to do with the adoption of this law. The answer to your question lies in the context of the bill's proposal, where it is said that one of the objectives of passing this law is to bring it further closer to the provisions of the EU Treaty and the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, especially with the provisions of the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank, given the strategic definition of the Republic of Serbia to join the EU, particularly in that the National Assembly ratified the Stabilisation and Association Agreement on 9 September 2008 and the Transitional Trade Agreement. So, the story of the EU and how it has to do with the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, not because Mr. Zoran Krasic or any other SRS MP says so, but simply because it is the subject of this debate, which is recognised by the Governor himself, the National Bank itself, who, in the light of the bill, pointed out that there is a clear link between this law and these alleged European definitions of the Republic of Serbia. Another insult to you, Mrs. Comic. If Mr. Zoran Krasic's exposure was not related to the agenda point, or if one part of his presentation was not related to the agenda point, then how could you allow Mr. Radovan Jelasic to comment on that part of the exhibit that is not on the agenda? But that's less important now. What is more important is that the National Bank of Serbia did not accept the amendment that we have submitted to Article 1, which is very simple, precise and which actually guarantees an independent National Bank of Serbia, which is -- the NBS independently determines its revenues and expenditures. The formulation couldn't be simpler, it couldn't be more precise, and at the same time it couldn't guarantee NBS independence anymore. You did not accept this amendment on the grounds that the amendment was accepted by Branko Ljiljak, which deletes Article 5. In other words, the provision is deleted that the NBS independently determines its revenues and expenditures. We have spent more than an hour here to be assured by Mr. Radovan Jelasic that the NBS will not only be independent but also independent. The question now arises how, if she does not determine her own incomes and expenses, she does so in her own name. There should be no economic expert, there should be no lawyer at all to know that the basic condition of someone's independence is that he is financially independent of some other institutions. If any other state authority, government or National Assembly, is going to determine the revenues and expenditures of the NBS, then it is pointless for the governor to ask us how the National Bank is independent, and not just how it is independent, but how it will be independent. That independence and independence will be nothing. In general, the whole concept of this bill is a little vague. Article 1 states that the National Bank of Serbia is the central bank of the Republic of Serbia. Tell me what that definition is. The National Bank is a bank. We know that without this law. Is she part of the state apparatus of the Republic of Serbia? Yes, it is. Why didn't you point that out in Article 1. The law, but you're saying that the National Bank is a central bank? What does that mean? That it's a bank based in downtown Belgrade? You didn't need a new law to do that, or amendments to the National Bank Act. Mr. Zoran Krasic is absolutely right. You had to point out that the National Bank is part of the state apparatus of the Republic of Serbia, because monetary policy also leads and all activities it carries out in the interests of the Republic of Serbia, in the interests of the Republic of Serbia's economy and in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You avoided saying that clearly, and then you used this, logically extremely bad definition, that the National Bank is a bank. It is a bank, now it's just a question of whether it's an independent bank. No, because it doesn't determine its own incomes and expenses, it does someone else. It doesn't matter who, whether the government or the National Assembly. In any case, that financial independence will be nothing. In other words, after the adoption of this law, the National Bank will be a mere government servant, a poor government, a non-domestic government, a government that has recorded all the bad results on the economic and social agenda since 2008. If the National Bank is supposed to be a mere executioner of a bad and non-domestic government order, then we don't need this kind of National Bank. Then let's close a deal with some central bank that is successful in another state, so let it do business in the Republic of Serbia. So, all of this in the bill, all of what it says in the explanation, all that Mr. Radovan Jelasic told us, that the National Bank is independent, independent, that it will run monetary policy as it believes it should, and that it will not take account of the executive government's orders, all of this falls into the water before the fact that the National Bank did not accept the elemental amendment that protects the independence of the National Bank, which is that it independently determines its incomes and expenditures.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42220	Four minutes and 25 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The People's Messenger Vlajko Senic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42221	The President-in-Office, Your Honor, Mr. Jelasic, the honourable Members of the People, I will only briefly consider the position and independence of the National Bank. I'd say we're passing a law here that needs to enable us to protect the position of the National Bank as an institution. Of course, as MPs, we cannot fully predict any new governor of the National Bank, any members of the Executive Board, or members of the Board of Governors of the NBS. We cannot make any mechanism that can protect us from people making political or economic decisions like this. We must be aware that the new governor of the National Bank will also be under different pressures, as Mr Jelasic was under pressure. Unfortunately, in Serbia, one rule has been put to rest, which is bad and to whom we all contribute together, which is the fact that people are most often recognised for their work or when the work ends tragically or when they leave their position with their will. Few have the support for genuine reform moves while making them in the position they are in. That's why I think reaching the level of independence or independence is not as much an expert as I am to distinguish those two concepts, the National Banks are something that will not be able to return and that any institution, individual or politician will not be able to take away from the citizens of Serbia in the future. Of course, the position of the governor of the National Bank is important and, of course, in a country where a large number of citizens and businessmen are in charge, the issue of the course has become a question of a minority economic priority. It is quite logical, if the course is daily oscillating so that it costs a few million or a few tens of millions more or less of the commitments it has made in a loan indexed in euro, it is clear what kind of hot chair the new governor of the National Bank and Vice-Governors, or members of the Executive Board, and in particular, I would agree with that, it is said a lot in this discussion, members of the National Bank Council. I think that, as MPs, we should take the commitment in advance to the public of Serbia that, when we come to the situation to elect members of the National Bank Council, who, under the new proposal of the National Bank law, in co-operation with the Executive Board and the Government, are given the final word on the exchange-rate regime, we lead exclusively to the quality that we have conducted in earlier cases of elections of the governor of the National Bank. Any one of us who in any way agrees to play a political role in the process of electing members of the National Bank Council would do the bear service and his political party, but this is less important, would, above all, do the bear service to the citizens of Serbia. I think that's why it's important and it's too bad (I asked it as a parliamentary question yesterday, but I can see that it didn't cause any particular attention, which is also logical) that in this process we entered the National Bank Act in the Serbian Assembly in the wrong way and we didn't authorise the Finance Committee to be the competent committee to discuss the National Bank Act and the amendment to the NBS Act. I'll do it again today. In the next period, we will have the mandate to propose as members of the Committee on Finance to the Assembly members of the National Bank's Board of Governors, people who will give the minority the ultimate word on the regime of the course in Serbia, a very sensitive subject, and as members of the Committee on Finance, we do not have the right to declare ourselves on the Law on the National Bank. It seems to me that in this way we have made a mistake in steps, which we can correct through this debate in particular and which we can correct in the next period, taking care of the independence of the National Bank, taking care of the fact that no governor of the National Bank who comes to its head will be able to correct the image of the economy in Serbia. So there is no course that can change the structure of our economy, which can enable citizens to live better than how realistic it can enable them to have the economy and the state in the situation in which they are located, there is no course of the National Bank that can give pensioners a higher pension. That's why these are things that are very serious and that's why I think this debate is very good and very good. I believe that, regardless of certain doubts, as I said and when we talked about this law in principle, the adoption of this law will advance the work of the National Bank, governor, the Board of Governors, members of the Executive Board and be a step forward in relation to the standards we have reached over the past ten years, and we will agree, at least most of the MPs are willing to agree, that these are standards that allowed the National Bank to also be an institution for respect and that the entire banking system in Serbia shows, and indeed shows its tenacity and value during the economic crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42222	Five minutes and 50 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative. The People's Messenger Dragan Šormaz has the word, and the People's Messenger Cedomir Jovanovic. (Kedomir Jovanovic, from the city: I advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I apologize to MP Dragan Shormaz. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42223	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104. I think Mr. Senic made an obvious mistake. It is unacceptable for us to identify with the ruling coalition. We didn't do it, Mr. Senic, we didn't do it. All that you have cited as a criticism of the current circumstances in parliament, we ourselves have criticised, but this is the result of the ruling majority's will. That ruling majority has been so contaminated by this society that we suspect that your ambitions will be realized. Let's say, ambitions in choosing a credible National Bank Council. What serious man will agree to be your candidate for this function under these circumstances? Look at how the people who previously agreed to take responsibility have gone, counting on your support. This is where the President of Cassation Court was elected. One word in favor of her candidacy, no one from the ruling coalition has spoken. The first people of our judiciary have been elected. No word in favor, first of all, of their responsibility to take on such important functions, he didn't say. Then they dispute from the ruling coalition, and no one protects them. We did not make congregation committees so poor, but the ruling majority. It is the ruling majority who interrupts yesterday's session of the Administrative Committee because one of its deputies has other obligations. That never happened. That's what Milosevic never did. Yes, the head of the Justice Committee is packing up and leaving. This is how he degrades both the Committee and the Assembly. No serious man will be involved in this. What level is the People's Bank criticised? Only dilettane. What address? With one address where such behaviour and such manners have no place, from the ruling coalition, from the government. And the governor's silence today can be his assessment, because maybe he knows something we don't. How much damage will the truth that I think we're entitled to that cannot be calculated so much?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42224	Two minutes. Thank you. There's no breach of Article 104. National MP Vlajko Senic said, as regards procedures and Rules of Procedure, that the Assembly did not violate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly when proposing amendments and additions to the National Bank Act. The members of the 51st and 52nd define the responsibilities of the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Economic Development. If we read Articles 51 and 52, we will see that it is clearly written that the Committee on Economic Development is responsible for credit and monetary policy and the National Bank, while the Committee on Finance is not. The Service of the National Assembly and all those responsible for the application of the Rules of Procedure could have violated the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly if the amendment and addition of the Law on the National Bank had been put and understood under the last part of Article 52, where other questions were said to be discussed by the Finance Committee. In that case, I would have had a very serious objection to the violation of the Rules of Procedure. So, if we want the National Bank, the candidate for the Council or the Executive Board to deal with the Finance Committee, the only time is to amend the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please carefully quote the provisions if we want to talk about arguments based on them. National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42225	You called the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with the Foreign Committee on Economic Development. There is no such committee. I believe it's a lapus, but let me point out. Simple, for accurate information to the public. So, this second committee is the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs, point 8. in Article 43. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42226	I apologize to the National Assembly for the short quote. I ask you to respect that, since I said it was in accordance with Article 51, without the intention of reducing the accuracy of the quote. It is about a committee whose name was quoted by MP Jorvanka Tabaković and I thank her. National MP Vlajko Senic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42227	Thank you, Mrs. Comic, for the explanation. As for criticism, I don't think that if we choose members of the National Bank Governor's Council, they should count on any support from our MPs in their future work. I believe that the members of the Council should be elected as experts, the anyway draft law on NBS and implies the same conditions as for the governor of the NBS, who should not in his work worry about whether they will have the support of MPs, politicians, government members, ministers, etc. I have the right, as a People's MP, to make certain criticisms, regardless of what I belong to the ruling coalition. I think that this kind of debate can help all of us get to, first of all, awareness in society about what the position of the National Bank means, what the position of governors and the realization that the NBS is not part of the ruling coalition, that it is not part of the government. Is that always the way it was before 2000? Of course not. It wasn't always after 2000, but the obligation for us, the MPs, is that, by estimating political circumstances and political opportunities, we make the best and the best possible laws. Was it possible to bring something better? I'm sure it is. Is this the law behind which all the heart stands the governor who goes away? That's what he knows best. But this is a law that is currently being supported by the National Assembly and which we all need to enable to maintain the position of both governors and the National Bank, as it has been so far. What is particularly interesting to me, as an ordinary citizen, is the fact that, ever since Mr Jelasic announced that he would leave the seat of the governor of the NBS, it is difficult for me to read any text in the paper and see that someone is dealing with the issue of the course in the way he dealt with it, and I can hardly see that the course is more stable than when Mr Jelasic made his decision. We can get a message out of it, we can learn a lesson from it, but I know it well, and I appreciate what Mr. Jelasic did. I believe this job will continue to work well for the future governor. I believe that the moment he is elected to the post he will realize that his term of office is five years old, that his mandate is to do something that absolutely has nothing to do with any wishes of people in the National Assembly or Government and that his work will be appreciated on the basis of it, not on the basis of certain political or economic interests. If each of us makes a small contribution to that, the results will certainly be better.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42228	It was used 3 minutes and 15 seconds from the time of representatives of the parliamentary group. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42229	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Jelasic, last time there was a debate in principle, we were having a little controversy about the flexible belt and what I asked you, what do you think the state would do, i.e. NBS, our economy and banking sector, if we use such a regime, not this swimming and not, of course, a fixed course. You then replied that, as the NBS, you were considering that possibility, but you chose this swimming and that you continue to support it. You said it was because the flexible belt fits the speculators. You used that term and it was the only argument you gave me. However, it is obvious that this current situation, which we have today, corresponds to the lenders (you told the speculators, that I now use this term). It seems to me that banks in Serbia are behaving in interest. Their attitude towards citizens and the economy of Serbia is so. When we see interest, we de facto live in a double currency system. That's a fact. Banks lend loans and interest accounts in euro, not dinars. Any change in course is frustrating and the citizens and the economy is changing and their obligations to banks, etc. The fact is that everything is tied to the euro, not just for the dinar, and that's how we operate, and that's how our economy works. It is often said, the government is trying to say that we are not a high-indebted country, because it uses data that our debt to GDP is only 35%. When we compare it to Croatia, where it's about 60%, we've heard about Portugal and Spain that it's over 90%, it really seems a little bit. But in principle, we can't compare to these countries, because the potential they have in the field of services and tourism for profit as a nation and for paying back these debts is far greater than ours. The only way we can get back what we owe as a government is by economy, that is. export. Only through the export economy can we repay the debt, and that's a fact. In another way, we can't pay back the debts we have. And the IMF says in these negotiations that we are a highly-indebted country, and when we look at the fact that our public debt is now five or six times larger than exports, it is considered a high-indebted country everywhere in the world. Somewhere around two, two and a half times is thought to be a medium-indebted country or low, if it's more public debt than export, and we have five or six times the public debt than exports. This is only used to keep it in debt and to say that we are a low-indebted country. We must, in my view, and we see that the businessmen are looking for it, and some have now spoken about inflation, etc., what Serbia needs, needs economics, it is a predictable course, for people to know, first of all, these exporting companies, because we need exports. Investments have never been lower since 2004, too, you know very well. Who's investing? Do we need investors like VAC, who only care about our market and profits on our market, or do we need investors who want to exploit our potentials, everything we have as a people, from brains to labour, so we can export? We need investors like that. It's over with selling the company, it's over. Greenfield investments are needed, brownfield investments. They have to come to stable ground. They can't come to Serbia with such curative differences and happenings like this, there's no way. In addition to everything that is going on, political instability, judicial reform and all other problems, the economic crisis, ever since they have a problem with the course, it is of course difficult to decide to come to Serbia. For this reason, we need to work within the framework of the law, not to talk about whether it is about lenders or speculators. But in my opinion, you really should think seriously about this flexible belt. I've been convinced by some businessmen, because it's the only way to help export our economy. With this swimming course, it is obvious that only banks, which have taken over a billion euros this year alone, are profiting. They bought that money. And where are they? Did they invest that money in our economy? I don't think so. You can't see that.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42230	Thank you. The word is Governor Radovan Jelasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42231	As for your remarks and remarks made by certain businessmen and economists, to which extent the course should possibly be tied to moving the inflation rate, we have done our homework. If we had introduced this on January 1, 2001, today would have been the 162th course. Now you tell me if, at that rate, it would be higher employment, higher economic growth, lower public debt, etc. Of course, all of this has to be counted for a longer period of time. As far as the public debt is concerned, we at the NBS have been talking about it for a long time. Every three months we publish on the NBS site information related to the volume of public debt, as well as related to the volume of foreign debt. Public debt includes, of course, the debt created in Serbia and also the attitude towards GDP and exports. As for the banking sector and the level of profitability, if you take the figures from 2009, regarding your comment on how much banks earn here, the banks have earned about 5.7% of their investment capital in Serbia. What countries where the volume of profitability is lower, or where did the banks earn less? It's Montenegro and it's the Baltic countries, where the banks were down. I am sure that the loss of the banking sector would not have contributed to a greater amount of credit or greater confidence for our citizens to maintain even more savings, and I doubt that the loans would have been much cheaper if the banking sector had been lost. As far as the course regime is concerned, one thing's for sure, it's also a flexible course, from the point of view as you suggest, fixed at a small door. If you predefine how flexible it's going to be, it means, after all, fixed, because you've just expanded the space in which it's going to move.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42232	National MP Dragan Shormaz wants to use the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42233	- The microphone's off. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42234	People's MP, I'm sorry, I don't see your microphone on, the MP unit is.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42235	To repeat, it's not about whether it's 2001 or 2009, I'm not talking about what's been done so far, Mr. Governor. Obviously, that was good, because the banking system needed to be strengthened, but now the situation is alarming. Business doesn't work, we need exports, no investments. Something has to change. That's all I said. I haven't said a single bad word for what you've used swimming class so far, but it's obvious it's not attracting new investors right now. That's more than clear. Who in this unstable situation is going to come? Tell us what new investors will come by or by which the economy will increase exports. Why don't banks invest in business projects? Maybe, as Mr. Jovanovic says, and to the businessmen, maybe they don't give up good enough projects, maybe they don't work the right way, but then we're all in trouble. Let's make an ambience, that's our obligation, and then those who are more capable will certainly succeed. We're just exporting out of this whole situation. You know that very well. We have nothing else to repay our debts from, and we continue to be in debt. I'm not even talking about jobs, I'm talking about people having to produce, not having some fictitious jobs in agencies, funds, etc. New production plants are needed and should be exported. And we have a place to go. We have an open market in the EU, we have an open market in Russia, and other markets are in the mood, we just have to have -- what? Good enough and good enough and to offer what we can from these areas to the EU and Russia markets and other parts of the world. But who will invest if the course is unstable, in addition to the unstable political situation, insecure legal situations and everything else? That's why I think and that's why I said that now might be the time to think about changing course regimes, and I haven't criticised what's happened so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42236	Thank you. I'm sorry about the technical difficulties with the MP's unit. MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42237	Mr. Jelasic, I don't know why you're bringing us back to 2001. Neither comment nor argument makes any sense anymore, and a special criticism for our observation of what a course of 160 dinars would mean. Maybe it would mean sobering, maybe we'd start spending just what we have, maybe our goods would be more competitive because of that, maybe it would be the answer to this paradox that a square meter in Belgrade describes more expensive than a square metre in Dubai. I will return to the accompanying letter with the law, which you have sent to the President of Parliament. Among other things, you say - as you know, the Government and the National Bank have agreed that the National Bank Act needs to be amended, complemented before the election of a new governor, given the circumstances given. What are the circumstances? I've been listening to you for months. I read your interviews. You were talking about something else. I don't mind the defreezing of public sector wages, just tell me where the money is. I have nothing to talk to trained businessmen who bought loans by banks, counting on them to sell it to someone tomorrow, and today, when they need to do something in these companies, they don't know what they're going to do, so they call the governor to give them a strong course. Those were your messages. Your message on the bathroom was like that. What are the circumstances? The only circumstances that are obvious, which you're not talking about, are the circumstances that describe you as the man who lost the support of those who suggested him. That's our common problem. It is now passed a law relativating both the government and the National Bank. If you're saying that there was one in this version that we're changing now, please just show me where. There's a big difference between dinar policy and course regimes. That's what you know very well. Our experiences here in the Assembly are phenomenal when professional services begin to interpret the law. You know, an anti-monopoly commission sometimes exists, and sometimes it doesn't exist. When we ask for a statement on the privatisation of NIS, then she says, as the state does and because Serbia's monopoly changes for Russia's monopoly, we are not in charge. When a company comes in and invests 30, 40, 50 million, the company buys something, and then it says, "Can I get consent?" And they'd like to give consent, but they don't like who's all in that company, and they don't like who's currently the owner of the action, so they decide to shut up. (President: National MP, the time available to the parliamentary group has been used. Thank you, Mr. Jelasic. I congratulate you on what you did well, and I hope you'll do from somewhere else what you didn't want to do at the governor's post.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42238	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Jorgenka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42239	Article 2 of the SNS proposal reads: "The National Bank of Serbia contributes to the preservation and strengthening of the stability of the financial system", as the first task, "to achieve and maintain price stability and supports the implementation of the economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, operating in accordance with the principles of market economy". Do you have anything to resent, add or subtract, other than refusing this amendment? And I have to blame you next. The government and the National Bank were together in the field of economic policy, where they would normally have to be together all the time, only when the government was supposed to show citizens that they were richer than they really are, and the People's Bank when it calmed the prices by apression. So, your co-ordination of monetary and fiscal policy, which is otherwise a prerequisite for a successful economic policy, has agreed with the government only in the repression of dinars in the past period. So only when the government sees its interest and when the National Bank sees its interest in calming prices, because it draws itself, then you stick to co-operation, which is, by the way, the condition of all conditions for a successful economic policy. Why is that? Because only banks always profit from the weak and the strong dinar. I don't want to explain it, that's what their business results are about, countless works -- theoretically, research journalism, scientific, etc. What I can blame you for, and using rationally my time, is this. You know Mr. Busek and you were with him on Austrian television. If, Mr. Radovan Jelasic, going to the governor of the National Bank, you could be a guest on Austrian television without being governor in the state of Serbia? Could you, as a consultant to McKinsey, as a physical person, be where you were? How did you repay the citizens of Serbia, businesses? Those who crossboarded loans in 2008 raised by 30% to 80%. So our economy, which was cheaper to charge directly outside, because you were giving it a high mandatory reserve, in 2008, it was not 100%, but over 200 percent more. Today we are rightly talking about one not far away moment of sovereignization of this debt. You can run away from that debt as private, not public. And, above all, and above all, it's your story that you don't need to be in debt. You are not a marketing expert, you are not invited to criticise and speak, but to warn citizens in the right way about the danger of borrowing. That, as you say, should live in harmony with its possibilities, the esteemed Nothing is another thousand eighty-eighty-seven years, when it was announced "Twilight of the Idol," literally said, "No one should live beyond the limits of their abilities, neither individuals nor states." Another thing that you don't stick to, and many of us would have to stick to Nie and what's basic logic, is that we don't replace the causes and consequences and not talk about the false causes of the situation we're in. What are false causes and consequences? Praise the transparency, keeping foreign reserves in non-risk and quality securities of value. They ask me why I wear this much paper. Well, because people are willing to give up and what they said. Now I have quotes. Mr Jelasic, in his capacity as vice governor, asked him how he allowed Euroaxis to the bank, known as the National Savings Bank, etc., that without any consequence he had violated the 28m dollar return agreement, told the man who opposed him, Mr Dusan Stojanovic, the Central Bank expert, now, after leaving and giving a resignation: ''And who am I to ask for consent to such a decision? The monetary committee is no entertainment." What does the Council or the Executive Board, the Assembly, serve as someone you just want to inform, and not to lay down accounts, if we don't know, in the capacity of any secret, business, state, military, most guarded -- where are they, how much are they charged and whether, God forbid, these government reserves are invested in that company from the beginning of the story I was talking about, buying bonds that they're printing? Whether that money may have served to get to this non-money capital -- some future times will talk about it, but hopefully not through the treatment of the consequences of the diseases that we've allowed to happen, but to act preventively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42240	Four minutes and 20 seconds were used from the time of the authorised representative and the total time used for the authorised representative was used. The word is Governor Radovan Jelasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42241	I'll be real quick. As far as your proposal is concerned, it is quite simple why it is not accepted - since it knows what the primary goal is, and the primary goal should certainly be only one, and in your proposal all objectives are literally set in the same plane. As for the impact of adpression and depression on the course, please read on the National Bank of Serbia website, and you will find out exactly, you can see for yourself when the price was more stable - when it was an apression or when it was a depression. The current price trend – in May is 3.7%, and since June we expect it to continue to be below 4%. This means that it is obvious, if the macroeconomic conditions have changed, and under the condition of depression can certainly be guaranteed what concerns price stability. I have to let you down - I haven't signed a single payment order in my life where there will be foreign exchange reserves. That, thank God, is not my job, there are professional services for that. In the future, such as the Monetary Committee so far, the Executive Board will provide guidance, prescribe only the quality of the banks in which foreign reserves can be held, prescribe the quality of the paper of value to which it can be invested. As for your specific objections, regarding one particular bank, it was all done on the basis of and because of the time we lived, when the government, and it was still a federal government, brought guidelines regarding which banks and how much to invest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42242	The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42243	I'd like to use the right to replicate, if you please, the chairman. I was misread.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42244	You have the time of the parliamentary group at your disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42245	I've been misread, but by taking away the time of the parliamentary group, I'll say the following. That there should be only one goal and inflation is simply the replacement of the cause and the consequences you're talking about. For man is whole and not only worth having good eyesight, nor only good hearing, nor being strong only in his hands or only in his feet, so that he may walk well. The economic organism is overall and in order to talk about progress, about the stability of the financial system, you cannot use that kind of logic that is limping, which is cut off. As you can't claim, your measures have contributed to the stability of the price or the strength of the dinar. The dinar has been a political product in this country since 2000. In order for it to be really strong and stable, foreign reserves based on domestic exports should exist. The only thing that makes one economic system stable is that. All the talk about how we're not in charge of how much we really are, is an anesthesia story for the people and the economy, that they're still in debt. You did not use your legal obligation to control the business's duty by making every crossboarder, cross-border credit, have to be declared to you and measure it against the power of the real social product. Because now that the bills are coming up, in the sense that you've sold over a billion euros to maintain foreign reserves, we all lose. So, companies have been sold, the state has sold you foreign reserves, not for pears and apples, but for dinars, you spend your foreign exchange reserves as the only resource, and not all of yours, but by the manual and structure, they're unstable because the business banks, you sell them, and again we have extra dinars, and you repo papers withdraw that surplus, you issue money to pay the interest on those repo papers and you talk here that, simply, not all goals can be on the same level. Please, it is inadmissible to continue to maintain a veil of incomprehensibility or expertise in monetary policy management. No one can swallow this anymore, and rightly we are all suffering, as economists, from criticizing that we are like those who comment on the weather forecast, that we are not able to create conditions, but only to talk about how much rain has fallen per square metre, or how much inflation has cost the economy or citizens. Be a little more serious and with a little more respect for the citizens, and also for these amendments that we have submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42246	Three minutes and 20 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is Governor Radovan Jelasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42247	I repeat again and again. It's not about college and economists, it's about high school. The repo paper show isn't about broadcasting money, it's about withdrawing money. So, over and over again, broadcasting repo paper is a retreat. If the dinar, as you said earlier, were a political product, then I would personally be one of the most popular people in this country today and the course would still be at level 80. To what extent he's political, check himself based on how much he's moved. To return to the beginning of your remarks. As for the organism, when we talk about people, so, yes, our economy is a little lame, but you tell me, if she goes blind, will it be easier for her? The main objective of the National Bank is the stability of the price. You keep saying that if we change our goal or if there's something else, then that's why, and that lame man will be much easier. So once again, if we take his eyesight, if we take his hearing, it won't make it any easier for that lame man. As far as the crossboarder's concerned, they're all registered. It stands on the site and is known exactly and who is searching and how much he is looking for and on what terms. And let's remind ourselves -- it's not a public debt, it's a private debt.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42248	The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42249	Crossborder loans are registered, but, Mr. Jelasic, many of them have grown from 30% to 80% in 2008 because you, as governor, have brought an overpriced reserve measure, and these banks have spoken to your loan seekers - it is expensive for us to get a loan because the reserve on such a type of imported foreign exchange is 45%. So, from the euro coming from the foreign bank of the queen country, you've been taking 45 cents into foreign exchange reserves. That's why people were in debt. Don't talk to me like I'm not following the course of your speech. Just because they're registered doesn't mean they should have been that much, and the reason for that high growth is you and your bad monetary policy instruments. When we define the goal correctly, we will also apply the measures that will be in the interest of that goal. At least that's how it's supposed to be. It's just not like that for now. But you can't take elemental logic and conversation into question by justifying your own, otherwise, wrong moves. How much money is stable? Wait, where do we buy? I shop in the city and in regular stores, not abroad, not on Mars. The stability of the price in that and this time is the best proof of your policy's failure. Neither did that only goal, to which everyone else was subordinated, and everything else has failed, nor was it realized. If it had been an honor, you would have resigned, because that inflation, which you plotted as your sole goal and in whose sense and purpose everything was subordinated, was not realised. What makes you think private and public debt has nothing to do with this? How does the IMF judge you? He says we're over-indebted land. Is the return of even the role of the Dafiment Bank, which was a kind of gambling, even those private banks that were not guaranteed by the National Bank, so who is paying it today? The budget of the Republic of Serbia. Through which institution? National savings, which you created by lying to citizens that it was a state institution. And you're telling me today that at one point this private debt of some, which you've assured me are stable conditions and that they can be in debt, will at some point not turn into a commitment of the state. But the state -- it's not you. The commitment of the state will be a budget filled by all citizens. You know that logic, which you know, you don't want to have the awareness that everything is broken and done over the budget and that the alleged story of the general interest is, in fact, the story of getting some, and we're all paying.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42250	Three minutes and 20 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. National MP Vesna Pesic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42251	I would like to continue where Cedomir Jovanovic had to interrupt his exposure, to say the circumstances that the governor probably had in mind when he proposed and signed such a law on NBS, on which we made remarks. These are the circumstances that we can look at daily here in the Assembly, and only in part can we follow in the means of public information, which is that this government in Serbia is becoming more and more authoritarian and authoritarian. He simply cannot bear any institution to retain its independence and perform the role it should play. You're not the only ones who do this. We also had the same situation when it came to the Law on Electronic Communications, which we also talked about because we saw that on purpose from the ruling coalition they wanted to tell an independent institution that it is no longer and that it is no longer in the light of the amendments. Let's say, when Sasa Jankovic, as an Ombudsman, submitted an amendment that the BIA, or the Uguje, could not use the storage of information without the court's permission, which existed in the previous drafts of the law, but when we received it in the procedure in the Assembly, the stored information about the private communications of all individuals in Serbia must, if used, be used with the court's permission. That's denied. So these are the circumstances that you had in mind. And you've experienced it, and you've seen what it looks like. So, no more inn, no more institutions, no more anything where they didn't get involved and where they wouldn't put their people. These are the new circumstances, Mr. Jelasic, which you know very well. That's why we're, we're also encouraging your colleagues, now I'm going to remind you here, that it's not just some rash idea of a political party in parliament that makes you comment on a new member of 23, that through that member and the whole change of the role of governors, the Council, the Executive Board, or the Monetary Committee, you've opened the door to that abuse that we're talking about, that really the NBS will be the exposition of government, or some party peaks, or corruption or whatever you want, because when we talk about our society, it's one and the same thing. So you've opened that possibility through article 23. We tried to point out that you can't play with language games when it comes to this law and that you understand very well what the difference between course policy and course regime policy is. I saw what Mr. Stojan Stamenkovic said in the paper. He signaled the same thing. As soon as we showed him the law signaled that now the possibility of this National Bank Council being a political station and government and various other political parties and other factors of power is opening up. The first one said that. Did you read that he said that? I'm going to show you a statement from other economists that are published in "Politics." Mr. Vladimir Vukcevic says, "I have no objection to the coordination of the central bank of the executive government." Right, that was before, and we don't mind that there's some coordination there, and in Article 38, where we've put the remark, it's actually said, and that's all we have to do and stay, and Article 23 needs to be reformed. I have no objection to the coordination of the central bank and the government, the executive government, but this is how the space for the direct influence of politics is opened -- Mr. Vuckovic was convinced. If the Executive Board, which consists of governors and vice governors, is the first in the chain, then why is Article 12, which deals with the powers of the Executive Board, does not stand so? - Mr. Vuchkovic also wonders. I draw your attention to the fact that in this article where you speak about the Executive Board, there is no jurisdiction at all to discuss the course regime, nor that he proposes it to the Board of Governors, but it is right now that he is engaged in the policies of the dinar course. Suddenly, after that, in Article 23, with a play of words – the Executive Board deliberately proposes a course regime of the dinar. Okay, why don't you get that straight? Now I'm going to quote to you the future, I suppose, since it has already been named by the ruling majority, Mr. Shoskovic, who on the first page of "Politicals" corresponds to this dilemma that we have set here. He thinks the proposed solutions have not been left open a channel through which the ruling parties will be able to bind their hands to the new governor and to shape the fate of the national currency. He believes. Dispute Article 23 (i.e., it also registers that it is a controversial member of 23), which states that the NBS Council determines on a proposal from the Central Bank Executive Board, with the consent of the Government, it interprets as the possibility that the ruling majority of the members of the Council directly influences the policy of course. He continues to say – well, such a text of Article 23 is still a proposal, and by adopting or not adopting it, it can be changed. If there is a suspicion, and I tried to show you from a public debate in the media that it is not a keif which is now Mr. Jovanovic or I or Mr. Ivan Andric being expelled with you, but has already been made public that this Article 23 is wrong and that a game of words is used between what is a course policy and what is a course regime. So they point out that the course regime is older than the course policy. I had to ask an economist who used to work in the federal government, Milica Uvalić: "Mrs. Uvalic, would you explain the difference between politics and course regimes? '"My wife explained the difference nicely to me. Why do you people who know best pretend there's no difference between the regime and the course policy? It's impossible that you don't know that. How is it to be in Article 12? The Executive Board deals with course policy, and suddenly in Article 23 it also deals with course regimes, and Article 12 does not say that it does so at all. So why are you hiding behind those words now that everyone knows clearly what a course policy is and what a course regime is? You have shifted the course regime by changing the role of governors, by selecting the members of the Council, which I have pointed out to you last time, which will be chosen by some obscenity committees of the Assembly, and we do not know which procedure these people will choose, on which basis, what kind of biographies there will be, what commission will propose them to be in the Board of Governors who should decide on it. In addition, last time I pointed out that the president of one party, the Democratic Party, is proposing a governor. You know, he's not just the president of the state, he's also the president of the party, and he's making a big mess of our political system. That there is no confusion about the president of the party and the president of the state, and let's take that into account, but like this, that terrible mess that was made there and that the entire political system is destroying, which is that the president of the state is also the president of the political party, then the governor will be proposed by the Democratic Party. It is clear that the man is already in the game of DS, and this is Mr. Šoštic, who is already an adviser in the government and various boards of directors. Now he's on the board of directors of the Board of Governors. Therefore, this is the situation that we have pointed out, that neither the president himself as a proposing, which according to the Constitution has the right, has any procedure to consult when the governor is to propose, nor has there been any procedure for this assembly committee to reach the Council. And the powers have changed, it's not the same as it used to be. Why do you assure us of what people on the outside, who look at it, have in mind, so each future governor will say, change Article 23 if there is a dilemma that there will be political influence over these changes. So we ask you to return to these remarks, to the amendments we have made. Or, change Article 12, that the Executive Board proposes a course regime to the Council, put it in that Article 12, and that's how you sort it out. Let's put the governor and the vice governors, where the Executive Board, that former monetary board, put it in his jurisdiction, that he proposes it. So, without that proposal, when you've been linguistically sharing these roles, that the Executive Board is dealing with course policy, it's just how many foreign exchanges to sell, it's just a fine quote, so the economists have explained to me, and the course regime, the four possible course regimes, it's older than the course policy. That's what your colleagues explained to me. If they have explained this to me and if you must know it, we ask you or to change Article 23, so that those dilemmas that exist in the public would be removed, or to change the previous member and put the Executive Board on course regime. This is how the dilemma remains that if someone from the slingshot, another institution will be liquidated, as many others have been liquidated, and we now have a crisis of institutions in the state. We can't function. This country is gone. Yesterday I listen to Mrs. Kolundji, she applies the system of the 19th century -- whose authority is the government, that's the state. When something was in the state two years ago, and they weren't in power, he says, "What does that have to do with us?" That's why we chose you, to remove what was before, and not to say -- it doesn't matter to us, it was the state of Vojislav Kostunica, it wasn't our country. Nor will they accept responsibility, they say -- it was Milosevic, we are now a democratic government. Well, everything that's been done in that country is your responsibility, too. It's not -- how whoever comes to power, it's his country. This collapse of the state, which we attend every day in parliament, and this day we talk about... This is a serious institution, and we advocate that you take advantage of your authority, because you know very well what we're talking about, and that you change this Article 23 and bring it into line. As the future governor himself has said, it can still be fixed if there are any dilemmas in this game of course policy and course regimes, and your fellow economists have already indicated this problem independently of the Assembly. So I'm asking you not to keep acting crazy when it comes to this remark, because we're trying to stop the politicization, which is possible. I'm not saying it's gonna happen, because I can't look at the crystal ball and know what's gonna happen, but it's open. It's being systematically done. So we understand your circumstances very well. These are the circumstances -- no institution can be independent anymore, and that's our end. Especially since our entry into the EU is much delayed, everyone knows that. Well, let's do some mud in Serbia, let's not have any rules here anymore, let's do it the way that comes to mind, let's see how to buy the elections further, as we have at the end of the election. So we want and we are trying to stop this trend and we ask you to take these remarks very seriously and to change Article 23, not to go over it lightly, because we will consider, as Mr Jovanovic has already said, you responsible. So, you ran some bank policy, you're in resignation now... But what, you're doing what you're leaving now? You have to work through this law? Is anyone threatening you? Someone blackmailing you, so you forgot what the difference between politics and course regimes is, so you're mixing now with this law? I believe that when someone leaves and, if you were a good governor, that you should remain until the end, to preserve your honor. All of us, at least some of us, if not all of us, have risked something in our lives and tried to do something for Serbia's public interest. Do that by making this distinction clear, to know who decides and to see if this doubt, which is expressed here in the Assembly, in the public and in the media, is correct or not, and whether you decide to fix it and not to allow this kind of suspicion of the politicization of the bank, which I am talking about, to be carried out in action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42252	13 minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the authorised representative have been used. The word is Governor Radovan Jelasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42253	I thank Mrs. Pesic for these remarks, but it really doesn't seem that this is how we opened the politicisation, since nothing has changed here. I'll give you an exact quote on how it's been so far. So, so far, in the current National Bank of Serbia Act, it has been said -- the NBS independently conducts a dinar course policy. That's how it was, and that's how it's gonna stay in the future. The only thing that has changed so far has stood – the NBS, with the government's consent, determines the dinar course regime, I stress – with the government's consent, which is now amended and standing – under the authority of the Council, which in the future determines the course regime on the proposal of the Executive Board. Therefore, nothing can suggest itself, or if the Executive Board does not propose, they cannot determine, or remain – with the consent of the Government. Once again, we have not opened anything regarding the possibility of politicisation, and yet everything depends on the Executive Board, we have only specified, since so far it has been the National Bank, and now it is precisely given to the authority of the Executive Board. And why isn't that on the Executive Board? Because then we could all write and what the governor does and what the Executive Board does and what the Council does, and then probably all those members would be long around pages, pages and a half.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42254	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Ljiljak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. The National Bank of Serbia has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ( b) The People's Parliament, the Prophet of Radeta, has a word for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42255	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we, the Serbian radicals, in these past ten years, have talked about how they work, or even better said -- that the institutions of the system don't function, then you of the regime told us that nothing is right for us. Indeed, there is nothing good for us that is not good for the citizens of Serbia. So it's not good for us, it's not good for us, it's not good for us, it's not good for us to have more people every day who don't have anything to eat. When we talk about the institutions of the system, it's kind of the National Bank, with the governors who have been, I think, the best example of that functioning, that is, the failure of the so-called functioning. democratic institutions. Let's remind ourselves of that governor who entered the NBS with a sock on his head, so let's remind ourselves of a lady governor who didn't have a congregation majority, so she got that majority from Bodrum directly and never found out how it happened and who was responsible. Now we have you, Mr. Jelasic, the governor who resigned, he didn't want to explain it, but he wants to advocate some provisions in the amendments to this law here. Is it possible that your departure was not a good Law on the National Bank so far? Does this mean that this law, which is now yours, will eventually be adopted by the congregation majority, will change something fundamental when it comes to the National Bank and that you will change your mind? We assume you've had some major problems, which has forced you to resign. Of course, the resignation is a personal act and you are not obliged to explain it, but from the function that you are leaving, you are certainly obliged to report your work so far. We don't expect that, but we're distracting. To Article 3. We have tabled the bill for an amendment adopted by the National Bank, as a proposer, but, Mrs Comic, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You said at the beginning that the government couldn't accept or accept the amendments, but it's not good that it happens in the National Assembly. You know, we draw attention, again I'm talking about the institutions of the system, that the National Assembly couldn't be a toy in the hands of the government, and it should have been before it came to us that the government could not bear this opinion. But, therefore, the government thought the same thing as the National Bank, they accepted the amendment, they say -- for the reasons mentioned in the explanation, and for that very reason I want to draw attention to this member of the National Bank that we've changed talks about the functions of the National Bank. In point 3, it is one of the functions, that the National Bank shall establish and implement within its competence activities in order to preserve and strengthen the stability of the system's function. We think it must stand – activities and measures. And for reasons of more precise regulation, because so far, the word "activity" has been avoided, since it could mean everything, starting with general acts, through individual, to programs and plans, and it's essentially about measures. To avoid any confusion, it is proposed to add these words. Not to make it look cumulative, but rather to define, that the activities would not be imaginary, but concrete, as the word "mere" refers to. It is good that this amendment is accepted, because it really improves the text of the law, but I had a need, just for the sake of the public, to say what our motives for submitting this amendment were. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42256	It was used two minutes and 35 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Branko Ljiljak. The National Bank of Serbia has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42257	Article 3 of the amendment, in fact, is a member of the 4th basic law, where there are a number of responsibilities, i.e. functions to be performed by the National Bank of Serbia. We intervened in Section 9, where payment services, especially abroad, the National Bank must, not only oversee, but also control. So, the promoter says "to edit, monitor and improve the smooth functioning of the payment system", and we have defined "to edit, control and improve the smooth functioning of payment traffic in the country and abroad". What were we motivated by? The National Bank likes to avoid its responsibility for the abuse of payment banks abroad and, why not say as the investigating authorities say, international organisations dealing with the prevention of money laundering, etc., because some banks are involved in money laundering, and you simply want to avoid the necessary jurisdiction over that part of the job, giving us, in refusing amendments, an explanation that you say - is the job of the Ministry of Finance. You can't just take credit for something in life, you have to accept responsibility. We believe that every illegal behavior that you have instruments of control, supervision, intelligence, you need to intervene. You're the first organ to do that. And, if we forgive you, all of you since 2000, we haven't forgotten that the first check received by the Libyans wasn't realised through the National Bank because it wasn't known how to make a gift, received from the Libyan government then, but was given to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which had no legal authority to realise it. That time of ignorance is over. The time of responsibility and some appropriate behaviour of the National Bank should be covered by this law and do not hesitate to perform those functions for which you are responsible.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42258	The word is Governor Radovan Jelasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42259	The National Bank has precisely formulated its jurisdiction from the point of view of payment. You just said a little while ago how many institutions exist in the country and abroad, the investigative bodies that are interested and, that I'm making a little joke, we really don't want to take away the bread from all those institutions that were founded exclusively in order to check (I stress - they are in charge of that part) to what extent, what is behind payment orders, whether there is any doubt about money laundering, etc. The finance ministry is responsible for controlling payments in the country and abroad. Once again, this is sufficiently well-formulated, taking into account what other institutions are competent to carry out strict payment traffic control.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42260	The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42261	Do you really think that the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance in the area of the financial system, the majority of which are business banks, insurance companies, licking houses, which you have control over in terms of giving them licenses, and not to talk about affairs and affairs in this regard, about the abuse of discretion, about the timely ban on the participation of the "Convers Bank" in entering this financial system, about all those failures that you, as a usurpation, are openly saying - the powers and rights you have, using, harming insurance companies or some, can now be used as an argument that you do not want to supervise, because it does so well and correctly? Please, don't use jokes in this too serious topic, because on account of the last joke, because, busy with other duties, I was absent at the moment when you were answering me, and you said you would give me an hour because I didn't calculate the time well, from a wonderful, young and smart lady saying, "It's no wonder if Mr. Governor didn't bring you the watch he promised, because he didn't keep his promise, but you, Mrs. Tabakovic, could give him a book on gardens, because that's what qualified him to do with his garden after this governor job." I quote the message I received, but the last sentence of the message is the most frightening: "I fear that the flowers will not survive, because there will be many beautiful, colorful and imported flowers, and of our producers, our industry and our economy will be nothing." Of your joke, I've concluded with a serious attitude many would agree with.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42262	Two minutes has been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) Governor Radovan Jelasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42263	I'll be brief, since the only thing I've realized is that it applies to me exclusively to some alleged affairs and affairs, which you've been mostly talking about, about banks. To what extent were the good decisions we have made so far, for the last six plus three years, it has best measured how much the National Assembly and how much the budget of the Republic of Serbia needed to spend on this stability of the banking sector. Since the price of all this has been no single dinar so far, it is the best confirmation for me that the Bank has done well, related to the stability of the banking sector.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42264	The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42265	What is the price of your good governance to the financial system, for example, is the fact that only for the beginning of this year, from January to last week, has been spent on maintaining the course -- a billion and 180m euros. How much before that was spent? What was the loss in 2006? Thirty-seventy-five million euros. What was he like next year? One hundred and eighty-five million euros. The capital of the National Bank has almost been cancelled, where you've even asked for budget recapitalisations, and in this law you're asking for your budget to cover your losses. Is that a success?- I'm sorry. This printed on the yellow paper are decisions of the Constitutional Court regarding the legality of your work in relation to the insurance companies, the layoff of people who worked at the National Bank and other legitimate and 'good-will' work, which you managed as governor or vice governor.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42266	One minute was used by the MP's group. The word is Governor Radovan Jelasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42267	Anyone who buys foreign exchanges should sell them. Since we bought it from the state, that's why we sold it afterwards. There have also been foreign inflows, on which basis, the National Bank, in order to ensure the smooth functioning of the foreign exchange market, which has been demonstrated in these times, has provided, I stress, smooth functioning, so that there are no excessive daily oscillations, i.e. that the foreign market will function uninterruptedly. All the yellow papers you just showed can be put into the trash, since the National Bank has respected all the decisions of the court and since the court has confirmed all the decisions of the National Bank of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42268	The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42269	I really don't want this to look like our personal discussion. But you say -- they sold and bought foreign exchanges. It's not a dispute, it's a market, but the question at which price you bought, from whom you sold, at which price, how you created a course and who earned it, and who lost. The data I made about the losses of the National Bank, the deficit of the budget, tells us that it lost the state, the National Bank, the budget and all of us citizens. Whoever got it, they're telling us that they're the only successful business banks, and not all of them. We know what five banks got the most interest in repo paper, where you paid them interest, which is a show of money. Not a transaction of withdrawing money from the market, but of paying interest, because you, as the National Bank, are not creating a new value, but you are, in the difference that you make in such transactions (not to call them speculations, they are), making them some and chosen ones, and losing all of us. These yellow papers aren't for garbage. They're for control of your work. How important they are, they also speak of the proposed solutions (which I will talk about later) where you will not be employed by the National Bank, as governor, so that you, as a man and Radovan Jelasic, will not be held accountable for the damage you do to someone, but rather be held accountable by the National Bank, as an institution. We'll explain it further, so I don't waste any more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42270	One minute and 50 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is Governor Radovan Jelasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42271	I'm very glad that we absorbed the first hour of the economy, and that's that repo paper is not money emissions. I'm glad I managed to convince you, at least, about that. I hope we get to phase two, which is that even paying interest isn't a show of money, for one simple reason, which is why we didn't print money to pay the interest. If we had printed the money, there would certainly not have been a certain reduction in reserves, a decrease in NBS capital during the high-inflow foreign capital period, which was 2006-2007. I must add, as you have not had the honour of giving your vote in this assembly for no single dinar for the banking sector, you have also failed to give any money to the NBS. So the National Bank of Serbia was uncapitalised and received no single dinar from the budget. Moreover, on the basis of the winnings, we first transferred last year ( since we filled the capital after we filled the reserves) two and a half billion dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42272	The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42273	Mr. Jelasic, the recapitalisation for a possible loss has been proposed by you. And I'm going to show you this document about paying interest on repo paper is a money show. Yes, and there are data on your report, but you didn't expect them to be public. And that you've never had one mistake and a failure measured by billions, and unfortunately, what you've just said is completely disqualifying you for the first man of the National Bank. You showed a win last year. You're forgetting that this assembly is getting reports from the Council, where you and the new President-in-Office of the Council were going along then, now the governor, how to convince us that what is not there, we see as money, or how to transfer unrealised gains, which you're not going to transfer to the budget... That's page 38. Reports from the National Bank Council, submitted to this assembly on 18 February 2010, saying, "Let's explain why the National Bank of Serbia did not sell part of its own foreign reserves and thus turned unrealised gains into realised and paid into the budget." You can help ignorant citizens and those who don't understand enough about this to create a vision of success, to show your personal peace of mind the supposed skill and expertise. But the results are about you, from these reports from the National Bank, where there was an increase in the state of the paper from 1.5 billion dinars from 2004 to 151 billion in 2009. What are you going to explain to me? Newly created social product, exports, some real values or virtual finance, where real losses are all citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42274	The time spent from the time of the parliamentary group is two minutes and 20 seconds. The word is Governor Radovan Jelasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42275	All I'm explaining is the Law on the National Bank of Serbia. As you know, since I see that you read a lot, there is no export, there is no increase in social product, but there is only one category, and that is to achieve and maintain price stability, firstly, and secondly the stability of the financial sector. As far as your second remarks regarding the 2009 National Bank's profit and what it's focused on the budget are concerned, that's exclusively from the realised profit. So there's no such thing as a course difference. If the exchange rates had been transferred, then that profit would have been much higher, but precisely because of the regime we're in, we've paid the only part that relates to the profits achieved, and that's why two and a half billion dinars were paid.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42276	The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42277	You've done so well, and you've had such a good relationship with the budget, that the State Auditing Institution's report says that even the interest, which you've been obliged to pay on the basis of the foreign currency deposits they hold with you, has been attributed to these deposits, and has not been transferred to the budget, in which we here, as the Republic of Serbia, have approved a series of loans, both international and commercial banks here in the country, under extremely expensive conditions, and at the moment when the state competes with loans by collecting credit rates, while we have you as a successful governor and NBS who positively operates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42278	The time spent from the time of the parliamentary group is 45 seconds. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, the amendment was submitted in the same text: MP Dejan Mirovic, a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward, Serbia" group and, together, MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Dejan Mirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42279	The point of this amendment is that the solution that was in the so-called. The old law is much better, because it is simply clearly and loudly mentioned that the NBS has the Statute, which is confirmed by the National Assembly. The purpose of this amendment is exactly what we talked about in the principle debate and what the governor has avoided to respond again, that in the light of the law, it says that the role model of the National Bank of Serbia is the European Central Bank. It is in the Statute of the European Central Bank that it is said to be a minimal, almost non-existent role of the European Parliament. It makes it easy to conclude that this is the intention and these changes to the law. It means that there should be as little as possible the role of Parliament. These are European values in practice, and we can, of course, phrase and say that this is not the case. That is why this amendment has been tabled and these are the concrete arguments behind it. Of course, you can avoid the answer, as you avoid it throughout this debate, and when we tell you that our interest is almost the largest in Europe, that inflation is bigger than in Ukraine, you're talking about some kind of grandmothers and frogs, and that's more than unserious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42280	The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic. After him, MP Arsen Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42281	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is obvious that all opposition groups in parliament have sought to, in some way, preserve the honour of the National Assembly, fighting through these amendments for the National Assembly to at least confirm the Statute of the National Bank. It is completely inappropriate that we do not have much more debate in the National Assembly on the state and business of the National Bank itself, as well as on monetary policy at all. Sometimes we have a chance to have the Minister of Finance before us, including the Prime Minister, but very rarely. It all comes down to the National Bank report. If we had had had more opportunities to talk about monetary policy in the previous period, there might have been some dissatisfaction, and I would say quite dissatisfaction and the professional public and our opposition MPs, we have managed to translate into some initiative and fix the situation, primarily in the economy and generally in the financial sector. Many things in the previous period, when it comes to monetary strategy and monetary policy, were not done as necessary, first of all, the policy of course was what the opposition MPs most often criticised, because the policy of course essentially affected the situation in which the economy is today. We have an apparent decline in production, especially in the previous year, and the question is what things will look like by the end of this year. Last year we had over 130,000 jobs lost. Our economy is completely uncompetitive, and one of the most important causes of all this is the course of dinars and the illusion of a strong course, which was fueled by both the NBS and the general government itself and the executive government itself. Today we can agree, at least we MPs of the opposition (and probably you, MPs from the government, if there were a little more self-criticity) that the situation, when it comes to the reference interest rates, is not good at all, that the state today is a loser, that citizens are losers, that exporters and importers are dissatisfied, and the only banks in this country today are making very fine profits and very fine profits. I wish the NBS had come out with a proposal to talk about monetary policy in this people's home much more often, and not to humiliate what was given in the previous law in this way and to transfer it, possibly, to the argument that the Council, which was elected by Parliament, is direct control. The fact is that, as so far, we will not have the opportunity to have a serious discussion about monetary policy, and it is, in the opinion of the SNS, unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42282	A minute and 35 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word is Governor Radovan Jelasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42283	The reason why we suggested that the Statute confirms the Council is practical. So, in seven years, unfortunately, we have failed to obtain such confirmation by the National Assembly. On the other hand, the Council, which is an additional control mechanism, as a supervisory board, sets up, proposes the Committee and confirms, after all, the Assembly. I didn't have the privilege of being called often, although I offered to come and explain monetary policy and economic policy and course policy. I really agree with you as much as possible that there is a much more direct relationship between the National Bank and the Assembly, but there are enough mechanisms here so far. So, at every call from the Committee, we, of course, answered, prepared, gave reports. I hope that this interaction will be even more active in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42284	The People's Messenger Arsen Đurić has the word, and the Messenger of the people, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42285	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Jelasic, Mr Nenad Popovic and I, on behalf of the DSS Group, have submitted an amendment that we have proposed to Article 5. The bill is deleted. In fact, there has been a obligation in the current law, namely, that the National Assembly confirms the Statute. I would not agree with the governor's reply if that statute had not been confirmed in seven years. That's not the problem with us MPs, it's the president of the Assembly in the previous years. This bill wiped out the obligation to confirm the Statute in the National Assembly, and I don't think that's good. The National Assembly brings all the most significant legal acts in this country, and given the importance of the National Bank of Serbia as an institution, we believe that it should certainly participate in the procedure of adopting the Statute of the National Bank, and that it is a control mechanism. Because I don't think it's enough for the control mechanism to be through the Council, who really chooses the Assembly, but I think it's necessary for the confirmation of that statute to be carried out here, to be verified in the National Assembly, so I urge you to reconsider and accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42286	The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42287	I would only briefly thank the governor for proving the unserious relationship between the ruling majority in the assembly home when it comes to economic policy, when it comes to drawing up the agenda and, above all, because of this criticism by the ruling majority and the government. Therefore, I ask you to consider, in this coordination with the Government, this and that you have a much more frequent impact on the government and on the assembly majority, that such topics, which are of great importance to all citizens of Serbia, are much more frequent points of the agenda, not that we are dealing with some peripheral matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42288	55 seconds has been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42289	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, today all morning we've been having a debate and discussion, a lot of arguments have been made, Mr Jelasic may agree with them or not, but what is certainly being imposed as a conclusion is that, on the day these changes are made and complemented, the historical minimum that happens every day with the course of the dinar, unfortunately, will continue to happen. Essentially, what makes life in economic, financial and all other systems in this country will not change. It's our defeat. A conclusion can be made here as essential to you or indeed, Mr. Jelasic, to all of this. We respect that you're sitting here with us, but you're still the outgoing governor. On the one hand, you know who you were dealing with. Don't realize that I'm standing by your side, I don't mean anything good about the policy you've been leading, or it's mostly not good, but on the other hand you've had someone who hasn't had a hearing for you, and the fundamental problem in this country is that they were dissonant tones of the government-national bank. You can raise this law to perfection and offer it to the Assembly, but the problems in the country will not be solved. Because the problems in this country do not have an initiation in the lack of an institutional framework, but, unfortunately, it depends on the political will of the majority. And that political will is devastating for all of us, because you, in part, know who you were dealing with and how you responded through the NBS to the unreasonable effects of certain economic decisions coming from Germany 11. So the question is, how important all this is to you today and how important it is to you. On the other hand, a set of laws from the NBS have recently come to the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You were supposed to resign from the entire set of procedures to enter one law. And now we're, like, discussing something serious. We can touch both the depression and the appreciation and the repo paper, we can talk about it all, but on the day this law is passed, citizens won't have a different life. The dinar will still have the fall or movement it has. They will continue to be interested in how to repay loans, etc., and the prime minister will, unfortunately, continue to send us messages – what are you interested in, why did you borrow loans indexed in euro? Did the Prime Minister offer them anything else? Yes, but under drastically bad conditions, because dinar loans had much more expensive interest, etc. So this is all turning into an abstract debate. Will she produce something that will offer a new, better and happier tomorrow? No, he won't, unfortunately. We realize that this doesn't touch you very much, because you've obviously put your hands up under pressure and you're going, because you know what's going to happen and in what direction this law is going to happen. My question to you is very specific. You made one statement. What does a statement mean, "If I'd listened to politics, I wouldn't have lasted this long"? That would be very interesting to hear, not just because of us in the congregation, but because of your successor, that the gentleman who will come to your place knows what awaits him. It would be very interesting if all MPs heard it, and certainly the public of the Republic of Serbia. That's something that's interesting. Of course, there will be an opportunity to discuss more. At this point, I will return to this amendment relating to Article 6. It defines how many NBS will have a vice governor. The law states (see, the European, modern law, which came from the need to regulate the functioning of the National Bank) – the NBS has two to four vice governors. It's like you're setting your hours. We've suggested that the NBS has four vice governors. We suggested this because in your explanation, you too did not ignore the possibility that Serbia would need not two, but four vice governors. What's controversial here is that in the explanation that you rejected this amendment you justify rationalization. You know, they're not vice governors of motherhood. They're not officers, with all due respect, at the service centres at the local level, so you can conduct a rationalization. It's serious stuff. They'll make serious decisions. You've entrusted them with these serious decisions through this law, through the office of the Executive Board. And now Serbia, because of its rationalization, needs not four, but two. I'll remind you, when it comes to rationalization and your awareness of rationalization (if I'm wrong, correct me), you were prepared to sue the state because it doesn't give you a chance to receive 460,000 dollars but you're forced to receive 160,000 dinars. Am I wrong about all this? It was in public. And here you call for rationalization, that's why you can't have strictly four, but two to four. And then you see how the Executive Board works and how you define it through this law. And that's where it's said -- if there aren't three members of the Executive Board, it can't work. What if the maximum number of members of the Executive Board is three, so, God forbid, someone for whatever reason is prevented from coming, and it's in continuity several times? Then it'll all be done by the governor of the National Bank. Then cut the Executive Board and the Council, you don't need anything, give it to the governor, let the man do everything he thinks is best. I think that would be the most appropriate thing for the president, since the president of the DS will also propose this man, so spare him some of the troubles he will have on the Executive Board, that is, the Vice Governor of the Council, who may be able to ask some awkward questions or oppose some decisions of unreasonable policy that is being taken at Andric's wedding and in Germany. Rattle them with these troubles and troubles and trust the governor with everything. I think you should accept this. It's not irrational for the state to have four vice governors. Two heads are smarter than one, four certainly than two or three. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42290	Five minutes and 15 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42291	Article 7. We have proposed that the objectives of the National Bank and the Government be common and that both bodies must have a commitment to co-operation in achieving these common objectives. Now the governor will be unhappy with my memory and pedancy in keeping papers and statements. Prior to the formation of this government, Mr Dinkic says the issue of governors is a systemic issue, and so on. He says, "We shouldn't change the governor every time we change the law, because of the governor we didn't even vote for constitutional law... ''Not to spend much of my time, mentions the experience of Kori Udovici, his shift, etc., and brings up a key sentence: 'If the G17 plus parties are not allowed to take responsibility for economic, agriculture and health resources, we will not even support the minority government of DS and DSS, and even if it goes to the election of a new governor,' and you were then already governor, 'we will not allow such a government to form. For us, it is a systemic issue, which is more important than whether the G17 plus will be in the government or not." As far as the system question is concerned, it tells my story of who was losing, and who was getting your policy and your application of the instruments and selected monetary policy objectives. What's on the side of the government now? Mr Djelic, today's vice president in charge of science, said at the time: "The fiscal expansion in late 2006, deepened the deficit, but would not be re-imposed to inflation and the National Bank of Serbia that the NBS did not push the entire banking sector into loss by its astronomical rates. She paid the entire 155m euros in interest to manage through open-market operations to preserve the goal she set for herself, which, as a model, is not bad, but is inappropriate for Serbia, premature and introduced in the midst of a political cycle." It is an alpha and omega for you, beginning and end – political effects, political cycle, political results. "The consequence is, unfortunately," I quote Mr. Djelic, "that we will probably have to capitalise on the NBS from the budget this year, because its capital is approaching zero". When you agreed on the government, that the governor was a system solution, as the people would say -- when you "exploited", you stopped being a systemic issue and a stumbling block. Then when the feuds split up and the damage stays with all of us and the feuds to you. In that sense, for me, for the party I represent, the National Bank and the Government must define the economic policy known to citizens, to define the goal that you will pursue with your instruments and to experience this cooperation by working on economic policy, not pressure and blackmail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42292	A minute and 35 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word is Governor Radovan Jelasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42293	The government and the National Bank of Serbia cannot define the objectives together, as the National Bank's goal defines the Law on the National Bank of Serbia. Just so I'm aware, no one here has asked the question of what should be the goal or whether it's a good or bad goal. Neither did your MP group comment on the extent to which he should possibly change, you only made a remark about how he should be rich. As for enriching goals, believe me, I have a much longer list here than you do. So I would add a minimum of five to ten goals, all that sounds nice, and we all know that it doesn't work in practice. And to what extent I followed that particular feud, the fact that I resigned speaks.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42294	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Branko Ljiljak. The NBS has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People Gordana Pop Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42295	Of course, this amendment is based on those initial amendments, where this word "independence" should be deleted, but obviously someone doesn't know what the difference is, so I would now only show how dangerous it is when the terms are being chased. Here, like this. It is said that the goal is the last stop point of all activities. And, no 15 goals, there's only one. But let's go now with this high-spirited policy of the National Bank. "The National Bank of Serbia manages money and interest rates to achieve a low, stable and predictable inflation rate, creating an environment for achieving sustainable economic development and employment growth." Sustainable economic development – no; employment growth - no. Furthermore, 'in order to ensure the value of the national currency, the contribution to the growth of the citizens' living standards'. Compared to the 19th century, the standard of living has grown, you can say. But is it constant growth, every year, and is it at the level needed, that citizens have very often to show, in particular, their behavior -- when dividing artificial fertilizer, sugar, flour, so folk cuisine, when Pajtic walks around with yellow, blue packages... Further: '' By managing money and loans, the NBS affects strengthening and keeping the public's trust in the dinar... '"Oh, Mr. Jelasic, the problem is that citizens don't have dinars. "'"... making it easier for businesses and citizens to make business decisions and plan the future." It's all your duty, Mr. Jelasic. That's what you wrote. He escapes this expert who doesn't have a mountaineer's license, prepares for a replica, but I'm reading yours from your website. Let me run that website a little bit. I hate those sites, but let me catch you for something, you wrote it. He says: 'NBS affects financial stability by ensuring the security and efficiency of the payment system... '"You just said you weren't interested in payment traffic control at all. Payment change business is banking business, it's been so decided since 2000, it's a classic banking business. That's when we shut down SDK, because it was dangerous. Now, we have a total danger, and when you ask for a state or what was in the current account of some company, the NBS says -- please, we don't know what the situation is, it's a bank, it's a secret information. They don't know when someone's paid, how much he's paid, they're only interested in credit potentials, deposits, etc. You're not interested in anything, to be precise. He says: '...' the efficiency of the payment system and monitoring and controlling the activity of business banks and other financial organisations’. The supervision and monitoring of bank activities implies all aspects of banking business. Because if the National Bank is obliged to appreciate the risk of some loans, security, etc., because banks create money, then it is obliged to put other aspects of banking business under its control. But they won't. Why? There's the almighty Draginja, she's more afraid than the IMF. You smile, you smile, okay. He says, "NBS is a state banker, manages public funds and public debt." Mr. Jelasic, you've done this a little bit, but it doesn't matter. It is now, under the new Public Debt Act, and someone else's jurisdiction, but I'm not getting into it. Do you know that we have local self-government where these additional elections are held for years? When you look at how they're in charge, they've eaten the money for four next budgets. Did you get that information? You didn't get that information. But that's the exact information. This is where the people in charge of finance are praised... They're all experts in finance. Where's the money, there's those experts. They know how to manipulate money, throw themselves away in some terms, scare us, like it's very complicated, etc. Mr. Jelasic, I get the impression that you and Djelic don't talk, that you're in a difficult fight. Look what Djelic said a few days ago. He says this: "The European Investment Bank will support 250m euros in strengthening Serbia's banking system." Why, when we have the most powerful banking system? Our banks have resisted the global financial crisis. They shot Americans, and we were stable, like stone. Djelic says 250 million must be taken to strengthen the banking system, working ( listen, Mr Jelasic) to refinance the arrival of the best companies' commitments. So our best companies aren't good companies. What's the other one like Moma Markovic said? And we'll have an exclusive opportunity since September this year... You know, Mr. Jelasic, the European Investment Bank will open an office with us. They don't believe you. The state's in charge, can't actually use the loans. Why? By the logic of things, when you take the Euros, to place them for an investment, you need to print dinars. Who's allowed to print? Then it needs to be sterilized, practically, because it's going to explode. But there's a better system, foreign exchange reserves selling to banks, to preserve course. And then our foreign exchange reserves are a flow boiler between banks. That's right, Mr. Jelasic. Bankers celebrate you, citizens can't look at you. This country's economic policy, your monetary policy, they can't watch. It gets worse every day. Any statistical indicator that could be in the plus falls at the bus station. And here's the story of whether the President of the Republic can be party president. We did, why couldn't it be? Because if he couldn't be party president, then the minister couldn't be party president, and he did. But that's the most important topic. Well, then, will our NBS be so independent of the brain? Well, here we have a situation where a man who is already in conflict of interest is known as a candidate for governor, so ideal solutions for a new governor will be an existing advisor to the Prime Minister. But he's also president of the NBS Council now. And that story will go as long as these journalists are paid by tycoons, bankers, twisting stories, inserting something new, something interesting, something spectacular. It's just enough to wink, money's coming from abroad. Large money from abroad - 2.6 billion euros has so far been invested by the European Investment Bank here. What's better than these massive investments, than those high-end discounts? There's a lot of banks, money laundromats. Let's launder this money from these transnational jobs, launder some other money. And we should be impressed by our statistics, our Dick, which shows -- Serbia has come out of the crisis, according to Mirko Cvetkovic, but there is only one small problem -- that citizens still can't feel it, they can't see it. Then we come to the conclusion that here all of these policies, both monetary and foreign and economic, do not lead because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not because of Serbia, but -- that's why you had to resign.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42296	Ten minutes has been used since the MPs' time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. This amendment was accepted by the National Bank of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Branko Ljiljak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Veroljub Arsic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42297	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems to me that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has introduced a trend for people who are elected and appointed by the Serbian Parliament to have a higher mandate than the Serbian Parliament itself, and it has often been justified by some continuity in the work of the state body, so as not to disturb the order, etc. This all seems to me like a wish that, when they lose power, through state authorities, state institutions, without being replaced by the Assembly, without being replaced by the government, still by those parties who have appointed their own staff. That's the problem. If one government of the Republic of Serbia is enough four years to show and prove it in work, if one is called together by the Serbian Parliament and one majority formed when the Assembly is established for four years to prove and show in work, I do not see why this would be a problem for the various directors of the republican agencies, and I still see no reason why the governor of the NBS would be in a position to be relegated to both the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This whole bill has been drawn up and built so that once the governor is elected, it's almost impossible to change it. Just look at the way and run the procedure for the replacement of governors and the replacement of a member of the Board of Governors of NBS. It's almost impossible. It is impossible for MPs to exercise this right, and MPs are holders of the sovereignty of citizens in this assembly and the only restrictions the Assembly should put before it is not the law on the NBS, but the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I see no reason why the governor, capable or incompetent, would have to have a term of six years, especially since he is not limited by the number of mandates that are limited, for example, by the presidents of municipalities and other state institutions. So if he was good, he'll get a new mandate, no matter what the majority of them are, and if it's no good after a year, two, why don't you take him down? That is why we have made this amendment, that the term of office of the governor should be four years, not six years, as proposed in the amendments to the NBS Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42298	The minute was used by the MP's group. The People's Messenger Velimir Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42299	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's another debate that we have recently had, continues, and instead of seeing one concerned governor leaving, who has been making statements in time that he will not be governor and that the state is bankrupt, that he and the government have taken as many amendments as possible, that this law, which is tended to do something in order, whatever, and that people in the NBS, and in particular the governor, have some kind of responsibility for the state of macroeconomy in the state, for the bad situation in the state, now listen to the story that everything is honey and milk, we see a happy, hearty, smiling governor, very calm, who just doesn't say – people, let me go, let me do my job, and you will do this job without me; without doing anything. There will be others, of course, but I am now thinking, following this law and listening to the amendments, the governor is happy that there is no responsibility in the new law. The governor is no longer responsible for anything. Everything is passed on to some collective body, a multilateral body, a board of directors, who will be responsible for it, and the governor, proposed by the president of Serbia, will not be responsible for anything, and will decide. Of course, it will have the support of the ruling majority, the support of the cabinet of the president of the state, who proposes it, and will be able literally to do whatever he wants. We've been listening to responsible financial people here say the crisis is over, there's no problem. Someone said -- but that people never notice that the crisis is over, and we hope that the people will come to their senses and notice that the crisis is over. But for everything that's wrong with the state, it's the current opposition. I don't see anyone calling to ask about something that's going on right now. I didn't hear the governor come by, or someone from finance, and add up the numbers. Here, I recently collected the numbers of the parties' promises from the ruling coalition in Bora. They promised the citizens of Bor that they would invest urgently this year and next in Bor equal to 2,160,000,000 euros. Guys, it's not a fairy tale, it's got nothing to do with the brain. No one has officially called to say it's impossible. Everybody's quiet, everybody's peeling, squirming, everybody's promise. The Minister of Economy comes in and says, "Calm, the watermelon, how much, 400 million?" It's settled. What do you need, a solar power plant, 200 million euros? It's a deal, here's a start right now. Four freeways? We'll begin immediately. Road Bor - Corridor 10? It's a normal thing, it needs to be solved immediately and done. We're trying through these amendments to grant this law, to bring some people back to account, for whoever sits in the NBS to be responsible, for the state of the state, for keeping the entire government in charge of the foreign reserve. The governor explained here that they had foreign exchange reserves, that it was sold, traded, stabilized the course of the dinar... And how much was sold to the department and to whom? - Well, that question doesn't matter. Who is it that bought billions of euros, at which price and who set that price? - It's not at all important at this point to talk about. Why does the import lobby reign in Serbia? Because you support him, Mr. Governor. You're doing everything you can to make the import lobby reign, and the producers fail and the exporters fail completely. We have nothing to get out of Serbia. We're talking about some kind of agreement. It was normal for the agreement to be mutual, not unilaterally respected. And when the Serbian economy is buried, we will now have an agreement respected on both sides. But the economy has already been destroyed. Who determines your state of mind? Who needs to make a decision about how you did it and what you did? I just want to say on one case what your work result is. In two years, Mr. Governor, the price of oil has risen from 76 to 120 dinars, and the price of milk that the farmer produces has fallen from 34 dinars to 17 dinars. It's a state of your work, just on one occasion. Not to make others out, there are a million of them. So, total system breakdown, total agricultural breakdown. Here, take the situation in agriculture. God can't fix it. This storm and everything that's going on, how to pay, from where, in what way? Earth is, economically, in general chaos. Where do people get a job? The opposition's MPs are worried about this country. Every day you serve marketing stuff and talk nonsense through your media. Today I read – Ilic, 10m euros. What do I have to do with the loans? I didn't take the loan, I didn't spend it, I didn't redesign it. That's what the Treasury does. Why didn't the city of Belgrade give us a location? I don't know. I'm not the mayor. (President: National MP, please speak in the agenda, to respect Article 103) You, gentlemen in the ruling coalition, do not know what you want. You have no power to accept any amendment that binds the governor to some responsibility. You'll bring a new governor, who won't answer anything, whatever you ask him. He's the face that's gonna sit there, do whatever he wants, and he won't answer to anyone. There'll be some board of directors there. And he'll do whatever he wants. Therefore, your government's almost ten-year results are catastrophic. I remember a previous governor, Mr. Avramovic, God rest his soul, who once told me... (President: National MP, please remind us of the obligations of Article 103 and to speak in the agenda. On the agenda of the search in particular is an amendment that reads – that the words "five years" are replaced by the words "four years" and refers to the time of the governor's election, so please speak in the agenda. Well, ma'am, if it means a lot to you. I can't figure it out, it's time for the governor to follow the government, the one in his term. It's time that when a new government comes, it's up to the new governor. Are you satisfied? Everyone here has been discussing a difficult economic situation. I took advantage of the MP's time to talk about it and to bring it up to the governor, who's very happy, moody, smiling, can't wait for all of this to end today so that a man can go home, dig up the garden, like someone said, and leave us with a million problems. Of course, no one will be able to discuss these problems. The new law will free the governor of any responsibility, will be able to do literally whatever he wants, but you don't allow some truth to be made, what the governor needs to do, how he behaves, what he used to do, how the governors in serious states do, how they behave, what the National Bank is in one serious state. How did we, Mr. Governor, clear these giants, our banks like that, sell their assets into bankruptcy, bring them into bankruptcy? What about "Sartida" affairs, "Jugobank", "Beobank", "Investbank"? It's all connected to one thing, all done very cleverly, dirtyly, uglyly. Today's papers are gone, missing paperwork, outdated disputes. It's all settled the way you wanted to get rid of it. I've never heard that you, as a serious man, a serious governor, talk seriously, and your representative of the Bank was with me in Cyprus, I was the head of the team for those Cypriot money, and we found it all nice. I'm very sorry that this man was expelled from the People's Bank because he brought out the truth. And now some reference officer at the Commercial Bank, because you drove him away because he didn't want to sign something the governor of the time, your predecessor Dinkic, insisted. And the other one, Spasic, he made progress in UBPOK, he was promoted because he covered it well and properly. And it all ended up on top of that. You, as a serious governor in a country where billions were involved, have never put the subject on the agenda. We talked, talked, held press conferences. Now it's more important if in law the term of office is one year shorter, one year longer, it's very important. It's important everything else, but it doesn't matter that you as governor tell us where the South Bank actions are, billions invested in the Zagreb Bank privatisation and how the D.A. said we're not interested in that money, what happened to that money in the privatisation of Zagreb Bank, which are private accounts, where that money is kept, who owns those secret accounts, etc. You don't talk about it, and you know it. Well, because you know a lot, you need to go quietly, get out of the way and get someone else to come and, of course, move on where you left off. And someone else will come, but he won't have any responsibility because he'll transfer it to the board of directors and no one will be responsible. You know that old folk saying -- where it's a lot of May, there's no eggs. There won't be any money. Serbia, Mr. Jelasic, is coming into serious trouble. I'm glad you said all this. I was so happy to read some of your interviews when you were talking about these problems that I'm talking about right now. Who shut you up? Why are you now becoming a man who simply smiles, everything straight and beautiful to him, happy to go and what someone else will come and what the other one who comes won't say about you? A deal was made, an agreement was made to do it all the way, in one way that would go to Serbia's harm. And that's how it's gonna be. All this will go to Serbia's harm and Serbia will get in big trouble. It gets worse every day. You will leave, of course, and these will continue to tell us empty stories. Maybe they'll be able to convince the people that they beat the Germans. I see you've contributed most to the government to make that victory come true. Even if tonight, if God gives us victory, you'll answer again. Whatever's right, you've done it. (President: National MP, I really ask you to leave football out of Article 103's breach. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Well, that's very important. You don't understand, Mrs. Comic, but what do you want me to do? Thank you very much, Mrs. Comic, for giving me so much time, I didn't expect it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42300	You didn't expect it right. But given that most MPs have come too wide to understand their obligation under Article 103, it is also such a broad understanding of what is on the agenda and what our rights and obligations are to all, because they are equal to all the participants in the debate. Governor Radovan Jelasic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42301	I guess I'm just smiling if I turned into a mirror and Mr. Ilic sees himself in me. I must have least smiled here during this assembly session. So anyone who has a dinar has the right to buy foreign exchanges. I said already and then, when it comes to the law in principle -- everyone who has dinars, they have the right to buy foreign exchanges. The National Bank regularly submits its report. The 2009 business report will be submitted to the National Assembly in the next few days. The National Bank of Serbia, as far as the level of responsibility is concerned, has price stability in its job description. On the day that this is not achieved, when the Assembly and the taxpayer are due to give a significant sum of money for the stability of the financial sector, it will be a confirmation that the National Bank has neither achieved its goal of financial stability nor its objective of price stability. The law clearly defines how the governor's shift can be initiated. About oil and milk, I'm really sorry, but I have to say it's not in the jurisdiction of the NBS. Indeed, the National Bank should not follow the same government, since in no case would it be a contribution and a confirmation of the independence and independence of the central bank. As for the banking sector's ownership structure, when I became governor in February 2004, the share of foreign banks was 23-24%. There have been significant changes, and then the government decided to sell a large number of banks. I repeat, I did not sell them, but sold them by the owner, and then owned by the state, the Government of the Republic of Serbia. By 2007, the government decided then to sell and increase the share of foreign banks to 74%.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42302	The People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojević has the word, and the Messenger of the people Velimir Ilic. MP Velimir Ilic wants a replica. You don't have the right to a replica, you've used 15 minutes for the president of the parliamentary group. You are available for nine minutes and ten seconds from the time of the parliamentary group, and you can use that time according to your will, with respect for Article 103. MP Srdjan Milivojevic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42303	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr. Governor, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, we have heard here an amendment predicting that the governor's term of office will be reduced to four years, with the finding that the governor's mandate should be followed by the government's mandate. That's why I'll be obliged to read Article 95. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says -- the National Bank of Serbia, the central bank of the Republic of Serbia, is independent and subject to the supervision of the National Assembly, to which it corresponds. The National Bank of Serbia is run by the governor, elected by the National Assembly. It's dangerous for the governor of the NBS to come down to the government's trustee and government officials. It's two separate institutions. I am asking all MPs, and I am also trying to tell the citizens that these are two separate institutions, that the NBS is an independent institution, that the governor of the NBS is an independent institution, and that the National Assembly and we as MPs have an obligation to exercise parliamentary control and take care of the work of the National Bank through parliamentary control of the National Bank. On the other hand, by explaining this amendment, some MPs have called for certain economic categories that are not part of the work of the governor of the NBS. Besides, the parameters they've brought out aren't true. Because the purchase price of milk may be 17 dinars somewhere, but it's 25.80 in Rasin County. Whoever does not believe, let him call the milkmaker "Ecomlek" and ask, "Excuse me, how much do you pay for the milk?" And every farmer who gives more than 200 liters of milk gets a price of 28.30 dinars. I'm telling the truth because if we here, as MPs, are constantly placing the thesis that everything has failed, that nothing is right, that agriculture is a mess, then without any need, we present certain data that are not true and do not correspond to the actual state. And they are best denied not by me, but by anyone who wants to invite milk buyers in the Rasin County or milk producers in the Fishing River and asks – how much do you pay for milk? Perhaps the price of milk in some parts of Serbia is different and smaller. On the other hand, if we talk about how long it takes someone to be governor of the NBS, I'll just remind you, here's Mr. Markovic, in whose excellent economic knowledge I am sure, he certainly knows that Mr. George Wyfert was the best governor of the National Bank in the Kingdom, first at Milan Obrenovic, and that his first term of office of governor lasted from 1891 to 1902 and the second from 1912 to 1926. He remained remembered as the greatest benefactor, as the best governor in Serbia's history. Being governor for so long wasn't his fault. On the contrary, he was governor at a time when the finance minister was the famous Laza Pacu and the man was governor during two dynastys, both Obrenovic and Karadzic. The dynastys have changed, but the monetary policy of the then Kingdom of Serbia has not changed, and then the Kingdom of SHS, or the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. If we're talking about how long it takes for someone to be governor, it needs to be as good as he does his job. Nowhere in the law says he'll be the governor for all five years if he makes a mistake, or six or seven or 12, and it's up to us to say whether he's doing well or not. On the other hand, when we talk again about how many banks have been sold in this country, that's what Mr. Governor said very nicely. By 2004, the share of foreign banks was 24%. From 2004 to 2007, DS had not been given a mandate to run this country, had no ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia, was in opposition, and at that time another 50% stake was sold to foreign banks, so that at the end of the first term of government, Vojislav Kostunica, the participation of foreign banks was 74%. This is what I'm telling the truth about. As far as football is concerned, it's easier now that it's 1-0 against Germany. It'll be a lot easier once we win Australia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42304	Five minutes and 35 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The People's Messenger Velimir Ilic has the word, and the Messenger of the people Veroljub Arsic. (Veroljub Arsic, from town: Replica. You have no right to a replica. National MP Veroljub Arsic, I listen very carefully to every MP. The right to a replica is obtained when I consider it founded. Not in this case. The People's Messenger Velimir Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42305	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, what does that mean when the governor resigns? I've heard here how many governors there were. You did not break up when someone lectured in history, and about milk as well, since milk is in the Rasin County, and I say – in Moravika County, for example, it is 16-17 dinars. Why is there 16 dinars? How long has he been in Whispers? How can Shabac drive from Moravia County, how is it worth it, etc.? Let's not make this a subject. Are you gentlemen convinced that Mr. Governor was convinced that he was independent and that he was wondering about something at the National Bank? It's all about Dinkic. Here, he's wearing a sign. As soon as you're wearing a sign on the lapel, you're not on your own, it's not up to you, it's up to someone else. That's why you resigned, because someone else does. And all of you who wear that sign on the lapel, and you're telling me here that you're independent, I can't understand and accept that autonomy in any institution, etc. So don't lecture us here how it's supposed to be. That's how it's supposed to be, but it's not, unfortunately, with us in Serbia. We know who's asking for everything here, who decides everything. That's what you asked one man to decide, and that's what you got. That's why you were bothered by some of the previous governments, because your president was smaller than a macaque grain in some other governments and he couldn't get the space to do what he wanted to do now. And here's where, when you got your hands off, you brought the state. You've brought her into a difficult situation. You don't understand, or you don't understand, or you're irresponsible. I could never understand that someone could have such irresponsibleness. So I ask the governor – are those interviews he gave right before he resigned, when it was said that public spending began to increase, etc., are those his words? When he stood up to his boss, who asked for credit lines, increased public spending, etc., so the governor sided with the finance minister and then, of course, he had to leave. When you were honest, did you today, did you, ever, ever, ever, ever ask you anything, and you had a nice time so you snuck in? And now you have a good chance to get out of it and leave your superiors to do their own job. This is, then, a deal made between the two political parties to end up like this, and the deal is now being realised. The ruling majority will change the law, and the condition to change the law was to accept the deal, to avoid liability. You've got it all figured out and done it all the way. But you'll have to parliament at any time to account for your work in the previous period.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42306	Four minutes and 30 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is Governor Radovan Jelasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42307	We reported to the Assembly every year, as well as to the Council, and also to the Odator, as well as to all international financial institutions, above all to the IMF, from whom we took the loan, and therefore we were obliged to open the books to them. It's on one side. On the other hand, I worked independently and independently for six years, as well as my colleagues. So, not just me, but all my colleagues. And as for the flag I'm wearing on the lapel, that's what I'm so proud of. Since I don't see well, I'm wearing glasses, and otherwise I can give it to you. So this is the flag of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42308	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42309	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, obviously someone here is trying to play a little bit of what this amendment proposes. So, we are now in the half-term of the Serbian Parliament. The governor will be elected in this half of his term. He will have two years to prove himself, if you endure so much in power, this assembly's assembly and two years of next assembly. Half-half. As proposed by amendments and additions, the governor will not be able to replace the next National Assembly meeting, and the governor forgets how he came and was elected for the first time as governor. You were first elected governor when the G17 changed the National Bank Act, replaced Governor Cora Udovici and appointed you. Now, the same protective mechanism, so that your successor is not removed, you set it up for him. I don't understand anything else. If the explanation states that the National Bank Governor's term of office should not be tied to the election cycle, in law, the current, valid, it says - five years, isn't it connected to the election cycle? It's not. Well, then what do you suggest six? It means that the person you, as heir, will propose to Boris Tadic, president of the DS, will be governor for as long as possible. So long, the next congregation can't change it. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42310	One minute and 40 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is Governor Radovan Jelasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42311	Just one fact. We are now changing the law that was passed in July 2003. Since then, the law has not been amended and now the law has been passed, I stress, in July 2003.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42312	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Time is available for four minutes and 50 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42313	Mr. Governor, the original law on the National Bank of Serbia has been published in Official Messenger No. 72/03, amendments and additions to the NBS Act in "The Official Messenger" 55/04. and new amendments to the NBS Act in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" 85/05. A year. So this law has suffered two changes before these changes and additions. Be careful when you say something.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42314	Governor Radovan Jelasic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42315	These changes concern only the additional competences received by the National Bank, because insurance and leases were handed over to the National Bank in the meantime in the jurisdiction of the NBS. These were the original laws that this esteemed house adopted, and that's why it went like a follow-up law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42316	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Arsen Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42317	The Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Jelasic, we have submitted on behalf of the DSS Group the amendment to Article 15, where we have proposed that Article 2 be amended and read as follows: "The Executive Board meetings are held if two-thirds of the members of the Executive Board are present," and item 6 is amended to read as follows: "The Executive Board is attended by the Minister of Finance, without the right to vote." The proposed text of the law provides for meetings of the Executive Board to be held if at least three members of the Executive Board are present. We find this difficult to achieve, given that the proposed law provides for the National Bank to have between two and four vice governors. We think it is better to keep the solution that has been in the current law, that meetings of the Executive Board may be held if at least two-thirds of the members of the Executive Board are present. The second part of the amendment refers to the finance minister's obligation to attend meetings of the Executive Board, not to stand "to attend", but to delete it, and it was adopted by the adoption of counterpart Branko Ljiljak's amendment. I urge you to accept this first part of the amendment because I believe it is a better quality solution and corrects the proposed text of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42318	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42319	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Chairman, Mr. Governor, it seems that you have ordered this bill, as is usually done by those who go to the Schneider to order suit at will, for a recognizable customer who will pay fairly. Mr. Governor, you have explained today and the definition and name of the National Bank of Serbia. First, in the provision of Article 1, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. Article 95 says - The National Bank of Serbia is the central bank of the Republic of Serbia, is independent and is subject to supervision by the National Assembly. However, there is no word in the provisions of the laws to be amended and supplemented that the provisions and definitions are in accordance with the Constitution, nor are they in accordance with Article 1. It's a bill of law. You, in Article 1 and 2 respectively, predicted that NBS is the central bank of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Jelasic, is that because she's in downtown Belgrade, the capital? Secondly, take, I don't know who prepared this proposal, who will prepare and who will respond to Article 4. Is your Article 4 in accordance with Article 2? It's not. In Article 4, you suggest that the 5th member be made changes, which read as follows: 'NBS has a seal... '"Is that right? Yes, it is. "'"... containing the name of the Republic of Serbia and the name and seat of the NBS, as well as the Great coat of arms of the Republic of Serbia'. Is there any content here in this seal that the National Bank of Serbia is the central bank of the Republic of Serbia? There isn't. You have a big problem, because it's over 45 members who are not in accordance with the Constitution, Art. 92, nor with the provisions of Article 2. It's a bill of law. Mr. Jelasic, there's one question that should be known by the financial profession. It is said that an experienced financier is created through practice for years, just like a good surgeon or pilot, except that the mistakes of an ignorant pilot and surgeon are seen faster and they are, however terrible, individual, and the mistakes of a financier, I mean you and the finance minister, because you are the biggest enemies of the budget of the Republic of Serbia and the biggest enemies of the taxpayers. What can the governor and the finance minister do? And the Republic of Serbia's budget should be viewed as any budget in another country -- it's microsurgery. The mistakes of the ignorant financier are somewhat difficult to see, but with drastic and inconceivable consequences, which, worst of all, are affected by countless people in the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Governor, what is the situation in the Republic of Serbia? Gross domestic product is lower by 3%, equipment imports are lower by 40%, and repromated by 16%. Gross investment is less than 25%, industrial production is down 12%, trade is low by 12%, construction works are down 30%, traffic is down by 8%. The areas sown with wheat (what the SRS stands for, for agriculture and farmers) since World War II were never smaller, and they were twice as small as 1990. Exports of goods and services were reduced by 22%. The competitiveness of the economy fell by 8% on the World Economic Forum list. The foreign debt has reached $32,750,000. Public debt exceeded 10 billion euros. Company accounts have been blocked in 69,000 cases. The number of unemployed is about a million Serbian citizens, with more than 200,000 people working without pay. It's a picture of you, Mr. Governor. And the problem is there's a very important fact. Mr. Governor, can you answer my question and give the citizens of Serbia final notice today? Serbia's foreign exchange reserves were created by citizens of the Republic of Serbia, workers and others. Please, these foreign reserves, what are they? To answer, don't hide. And where are they, from when, by age, who has them and what are they, of course? Why are they a secret to the citizens of Serbia? And why didn't you suggest that one billion euros of these foreign reserves be given to farmers, farmers, farmers, cattlemen, vegetables, winemakers, that they can produce for themselves both for the country and for the export? It would have been good if you had allowed them to buy, for that 41 billion dinars two years ago, for special services alone, to buy 14,000 tractors, to bow to individual agricultural producers, to arm this Serbian country, to produce both for themselves and for export. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42320	Five minutes and 20 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is Governor Jelasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42321	Many of my predecessors gave foreign exchange reserves. The result was hyperinflation, 10-15 marks, lost old foreign currency savings, bankruptcy of the state, reprogramming of all debts, etc. As far as foreign exchange reserves are concerned, they've been secreted for years. Secrets are only for those who do not read the National Bank report, who do not watch the National Bank of Serbia site, who do not read the news reports. So foreign reserves currently amount to ten and a half billion euros. Of these foreign reserves, our citizens are currently being saved under 6.5 billion euros. Of that, 45% were deposited in the National Bank as a mandatory reserve and that money was placed in first-class securities of value and first-class banks. As far as the centre is concerned, so what is meant by the central bank, the central institution, whether it is the centre of Belgrade, we have only prescribed in the NBS Act from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia Article 95, which clearly defines that the NBS is the central bank of the Republic of Serbia, independent and subject to the supervision of the National Assembly, to which it corresponds. (Petar Jojic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42322	National MP Petar Jojic seeks the right to replication. You have no right to a replica. (Petar Jojic, from the place: I was misread. People's MP, please don't throw away. By seeing your own speech, you can see that I have the right to say that you have no right to a replica. You have the time of the parliamentary group and you can use it in the afternoon. We're finishing the morning session for today. The work continues at 15.00 hours, with discussion in particular, with the amendment submitted by the National MP Branko Ljiljak. I am also informing the National Assembly, on the basis of Articles 27 and 85 of Article 5, that we will be working today even after 1800 hours, and until the debate is completed in particular, by reviewing the draft law currently subject to our work. The work continues at 15.00 hours. Thank you. [[After break – 15:00]] We continue our work in the afternoon. Just to remind the MPs of the time left at their disposal: the PUPS parliamentary club has all the time available, as well as the parliamentary group of minorities, the MP group of the NS has four minutes and 40 seconds of the parliamentary group, the LDP parliamentary group has a minute and 30 for the authorised representative, the SPS-JS parliamentary group total time, the DSS parliamentary group, the 'Forward, Serbia' has four minutes and 10 seconds, the G17 plus parliamentary group has five minutes and 55 seconds of the mandated representative and the total time of the parliamentary group, the SRS parliamentary group has 33 minutes and 20 seconds of the parliamentary group and the ZES parliamentary group total time of the parliamentary group and 88 minutes of the parliamentary group. Member of the 15th Amendment was submitted by National MP Branko Ljiljak. The National Bank of Serbia has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42324	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, my amendment, which I submitted on behalf of the SRS, refers in the manner and conditions of the work of the National Bank of Serbia's Executive Board. The position of the SRS is that the law must define the confirmation of the Statute, what you have erased and what, in our opinion, is crucial. According to the provisions of the NBS Act, the Statute shall be adopted by the competent authority in the National Bank, with the approval of the National Assembly. You have now, with this proposal, deleted the provision to be confirmed in the National Assembly. Why? Until I say why, we need to explain the essence of the problem. The problem is that the provisions of the 2003 NBS Law required this parliament to confirm the provisions of the Statute. What is the fate of confirming the statutes? Did the Assembly confirm the statutes? It's not. What has the NBS done, you will now tell us, that is my question – what have you done, how many times have you addressed the National Assembly and asked this authority, the highest state body and institution, to confirm the provisions of the Statute? It coordinates the activities of the National Bank and this institution. Why? Due to the provisions you have installed in the provisions of the Statute, both in terms of organisation and in terms of systems and methods of operation of the NBS, and in particular the provisions relating to earnings in the NBS. For seven years, this act has not been confirmed in this House and now, in the simplest way, you, as legislators of this law, are erasing the provisions of the Statute. It's not the only SRS grudge. What does the SRS still resent about this bill, and otherwise the problems we have in the financial sector? The absence of a strategy. There is no real coordination between the NBS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, there is no mutual relationship, there is no interaction in the activities in which you overlap. This is evident from the nbs governor's statements from 2004 to today. They're usually the opposite. We had several governments, several finance ministers, statements relating to monetary policy, financial policy, economic policy, economic movements, were usually the opposite, just because you didn't make a strategy. One national bank and one state without a strategy in the area of finance cannot be. You can't coordinate unless you have the right strategy. And all the problems in this sphere stem from the fact that you don't have an adequate strategy. which has been adopted in this Parliament and is binding on both the NBS and the Government. What else does the SRS hold against? He resents the governor and the NBS leadership, which in the last year and a half the National Bank has spent on preserving the course of three billion euros. Where are the NBS analyses and when did you, as governor, report what are the analyses that show the justification for such a consumption of foreign currency? Three billion euros in a year and a half, that's a lot for far stronger countries. Far stronger economies and far stronger financial systems couldn't handle it. Do you have an analysis of what would happen if you allowed an increase in the course compared to other economic developments, compared to other aggregates, both in financial and economic terms and in economic and economic terms? Do you have that kind of analysis? Have you done such an analysis? You weren't working. Furthermore, no moment has you come out with the right information about who, when and how you buy these foreign exchanges from the National Bank's foreign exchange system. They buy banks and buy importers. Why isn't that transparent? Why isn't it on the NBS site, like on the websites of almost all modern banks? Why are you hiding the data? 20 days ago, the finance minister came out with data, when the course began to rise rapidly, that those speculators who took advantage of market-financial conditions were guilty, that they had raised the euro rate. Diana Dragutinovic said that. Two days later, the candidate for the new governor comes out with the following statement – everything done by the NBS has been done in a legitimate manner; all purchases have been made in accordance with the law. What does that mean? What is this statement by the finance minister calling for speculant actions, in relation to the statement by the man who is president of the NBS Council at the moment, and the future governor, who gives a completely opposite qualification of all activities regarding the purchase of foreign exchanges? Just because you don't work transparently. You need to work transparently, to know in this country who buys, why buys, and what are the benefits of those purchases. Why are the banks buying this? Because they have money. They have money and transfer it from dinar to foreign currency. Why do they buy importers? For buying goods abroad. Why is that a secret? Why is he hiding it? Why don't you make it public and say it – it's legal, it's done in all normal countries? All that data exists in all the normal states, except us. Why are we looking mystically at that data that's about to come out? If that were revealed, then we could, according to the purchase, see who buys, why buys, and what is the lobbyist line between banks and import companies and monopolies on the domestic market. Then everything would be clear. You are knowingly concealing speculative relations in the area of exchange purchase, thereby directly affecting the course of the dinar. Furthermore, the SRS resents both the government and the NBS next - interest policy. If you remember, and you probably remember, a year and a few days ago, at a meeting of the UN, which dealt with issues of the economic and financial crisis in the world, our prime minister presented one fact, notor fact, which we all know, but probably you as governor of the NBS know it best, but you didn't go out with it for a moment in public. He said this - the margins in Serbia are up to seven times the margins in countries where capital is coming from, as a form of foreign investment, into our country. What was the essence of his speech? The disqualification of those who invest, so the foreign capital that comes in here with very high margins, or that was the slander of the same banks that they take on our market seven times more than is common in Western European countries where that capital comes from. What did the Prime Minister do here, and what did the governor of the NBS do if these facts are true? Nothing. Nothing, no government, no governor, nothing, no NBS leadership. Why? It's a question that every citizen will ask. The answer is clear. The arrival of these foreign banks was agreed by individuals. The banks came for your initiative. Lobistic circles within the DOS were brought by foreign banks in 2002 and 2003, which got a monopoly position here. What's forbidden in the West, the monopolization of the financial market, you've allowed here. That's why we have the most interest and the most margins in Europe, and that's why we have all these problems that will only come into play in the future -- the way and conditions of the repayment of credit, changes in the terms of credit obligations that individuals have concluded with banks, etc. It's a broader spectrum of opposition from the SRS. We've been pointing to that for years. There's no answer on your part. The moment the entire monetary, credit, financial and other policies are seen, and in particular the policy in the area of monetary sphere, a clear position will be reached on who is responsible for all of this. The biggest culprit is the NBS governor, who has done nothing to remove the monetary credit, financial aspects that are present in our economic and financial life and all the problems will be even more acute in the emerging period. That's why citizens pay up to 35% higher, because they've made such contracts, and you haven't done anything to prevent that loan and those protracting contracts from banks. Chuck, it's a shame you invited citizens to come to the NBS, that the NBS would give legal advice. What legal advice? Is that a legitimate bank business? You're responsible for the legitimate operations of the banks. What kind of contracts in which citizens will be exhausted to the point of increasing interest rates? It's a loan. In all normal countries, such banks, which deal with such speculative affairs, are driven out of the market, and here they normally work and do business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42325	Nine minutes and 45 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the Governor Radovan Jelasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42326	The financial sector's strategy really should not and should not be adopted by the Assembly, since it is in the jurisdiction of the National Bank of Serbia. As for the sale of three billion euros, I already answered that earlier this afternoon. So I just want to point out that no one is talking about when we bought half a billion euros from the government, and it's only the story of the second part of the job, when we sold what I once pointed out, a few weeks before that. I really don't know any of the websites of any central bank where exactly who it is, when and for which reason you bought 150, 200, 300 euros and for what purposes. I thank you for your interpretation of the fact that banks, of course, buy foreign exchanges, also that importers buy foreign exchanges, quite normally, but once again, I don't know what kind of database should be where exactly who, why and when they buy, and of course they buy through banks. As for the monopolitical introduction of new banks, I just want to say that in six years' time, I signed a single greenfield license in the NBS, and it was the Moscow Bank. There were customers for everything else. So, for the entry of all other banks, the owner in Serbia decided to sell his stake. As the last thing, the NBS is in charge of the stability of the banking sector, therefore, to ensure that the banking sector is sufficiently liquid and sufficiently solvent, and in no case is the NBS a police officer. If we were that, then probably in the supervisory sector there wouldn't be 100 people, but it would take thousands and thousands of people.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42327	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The National Bank of Serbia has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42328	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Jelasic, you are the best example, although I have no intention of plowing with you personally, that every capital has a price, including yours. The Serbian people would remember you as the man who resigned, which is very rare today, but if you hadn't gotten that capital too fast and had the strength to say why you're resigning, you might have been remembered as a good man. The fact that you resigned, we don't regret it. I don't think you've done your part well, although even today, interpreting changes and supplementing the NBS Act, you're acting in a kind of non-chalant way. The governor would have to put in a little bit more heat, explain some things, prove he's right. You boast – the stability of the price was this big in May, or the rise in prices was this small, we do not expect much more in June... They don't trust Serbian citizens with statistics. Do you go to the store, see what the prices are there? If you haven't gone by now, go away sometimes and you'll see that what you're saying here, and what your statistics are serving you, is not much about the truth. Monetary policy is also something you can't brag about, but this law has a lot of uncertainty, vague things. In a good way, a colleague, Stevanovic, explained it. The law stipulates that the vice governor will be from two to four. Is this the Rules of Procedure, is this some individual act of the former governor or governor of the National Bank in general or a law that would have to define precisely how and how it should be handled? Article 12 of this bill has defined which are the authorities of the National Bank and says they are the Executive Board, governor of the National Bank and the Board of Governors. This order in Article 12 should have some importance and weight, but you will see, with the new proposal of Article 17, that it does not. He says that if, due to the prevention of its members (members of the Executive Board), and otherwise, members of the Executive Board are governors and vice governors, we just don't know whether two or four, so the Executive Board will have three or maybe five members in total, and Article 15 is said that, if three members are not present, the Executive Board cannot make any decisions. And then Article 17 says - if for any reason it was not possible to hold a session of the Executive Board, then the Governor will make a decision, and will inform the next session of the Executive Board, so that the decision will either be lifted or verified. But if we look at what the powers of the Executive Board are, the governor takes it for himself and makes some decisions, and some decisions take a short term, it takes a smaller period of time, and it is no matter what the Executive Board will say about it, if a decision has been made by the NBS, so instead of the Executive Board, it is done by the Governor, that this amount or so many foreign exchanges are sold during one day, will it be the sale of organised foreign exchanges on the foreign exchange market of the moment when one of the tycoons in Serbia has to pay a certain invoice to abroad and after the Executive Board confirms or dispute that decision, what did we get? We didn't get anything. This is a very unserious approach. You should be a little bit more correct about who comes next. You probably did have a lot of pressure, and that's why you didn't even want to say the real reason for resigning, but not because of the fact that everything you've acquired in a short time has been justified and proved to be in a way that has been prescribed by the laws of the Serbian state's legal system. Then you could say I'm resigning for that and that. And that would be good, not because of your successor, but because of the citizens of Serbia, who would have a serious governor in the coming period. I'm not saying you're not. The fact that you said that seven years had not been adopted the Statute of the NBS, which you referred here, qualified you to be a small and serious man, because you said what the SRS has been saying for ten years in continuity. The assembly majority is mostly doing what the government proposes and works for the account and in the interest of the government of the Republic of Serbia, and nothing in the interest of Serbian citizens. This won't last forever. You're a good example. It would be a good suggestion that the speaker of the assembly once invites the prime minister and all ministers here and that all those who move to the front and second ranks turn their backs towards the chairman, resigning on the same day, as this would be the best salvation and solution for the citizens of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42329	It was used three minutes and 10 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment, a group of 21 MPs from the 'Forward, Serbia' and the People's Parliament of Branka Ljiljak submitted a group of 21 MPs to the same text. The National Bank of Serbia has accepted the amendment to Branka Ljiljak's MP. The word is Governor Radovan Jelasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42330	Excuse me. It was a mistake on our part. Of course, a group amendment of 21 SNS MPs is accepted, as both amendments apply to the same thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42331	Thank you. I find that the promoter has accepted both amendments, which are in the same text, which is otherwise a practice in congregation work. The same amendment implies acceptance regardless of who the applicant is. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42332	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm glad Mr. Governor corrected the mistake, because it's hardly that the Assembly of the same law, to the same member, in relation to the same amendment, could vote differently. But all the time here, the governor's been trying to figure out the story that the NBS is an independent body that needs to match the National Assembly. I'm saying "draw" because I'm under the impression that he wants to even get out of the control and supervision of the National Assembly with this proposal. However, a member whose removal has been proposed, and changes and additions have been proposed by the National Bank, raises questions - all of whom the governor wants to be independent. I can understand it from the state authorities, the government, the finance ministry, some other state bodies, but I can't understand that the governor wants to be independent even of the NBS. Article 16 is just such an option given to the governor: ''If, because of the prevention of its members, it is not possible to hold a session of the Executive Board – regulation, general or individual act from the jurisdiction of the Executive Board can be brought by the Governor. The Governor shall adopt acts referred to in Article 1 only if the delay of their adoption would compromise the achievement of the objectives and the performance of the functions of the National Bank of Serbia. The Executive Board shall be bound by the regulation or general act referred to in Article 1 of this Article to confirm or put out force at the first next session after its adoption.' Since there is no longer a commitment to the amount of time between the two sessions, the question is how much would the governor, who would have done on his own, do damage to his disposal. And I'm only saying this because of the next amendment and this is the introduction to the amendment that we submitted to Article 18.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42333	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42334	Article 18. The bill defines the powers, rights and obligations of the governor. This amendment was rejected both by the NBS and by the Government of the Republic of Serbia with a rather strange explanation: "Amendman is not accepted because the Governor is a member of the Executive Board, and the Executive Board determines monetary policy and performs certain tasks in the field of supervisory." However, points 1-7 already exist in the proposal to amend and supplement the NBS Act. The difference is only in point 8, which reads: "The Governor is obliged to submit to the members of the Executive Board a report on the implementation of monetary policy, issuing and withdrawing licences for the operation and control of the credit and legality of the business of banks and other financial organisations, the adoption of regulations from the jurisdiction of the NBS and other transactions from his jurisdiction, no later than seven days before the meeting of the Council." Mr. Governor, I don't see why, although you are a member of the Executive Board and of the Council, you wouldn't report to one of the National Bank collective bodies what you did between the two sessions. Only in this way can the NBS authorities be familiar with the problem that the NBS has, with whether you have achieved the objectives and tasks set by these same collective bodies and, if you are not, which is why you are not, whether these are objective or subjective circumstances, and what should be taken if you are not. And they can't know that without the governor's report.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42335	The word is Governor Radovan Jelasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42336	It would be rather strange and unusual for the governor to submit a report to the Executive Board on the implementation of monetary policy, and that is precisely for those members of the Executive Board who decide on monetary policy. So monetary policy is not decided by the governor, not by the governor to grant and withdraw the permit. So the question arises – if the governor is one of the members of the Executive Board, why would he report to these people, and these same people make such decisions? Of course, the Executive Board shall submit a report on the implementation, granting, withdrawal of work permits to the Committee of the Banks, etc. Of course he's reporting to the Council, but I stress it's quite unusual for the governor to report to the members of the Executive Board who decide and in certain conditions they can revote the governor, because, let's remind ourselves, the vice governor has two to four, and the governor is only one.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42337	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Branko Ljiljak. In the text that is before me and before authorised representatives or presidents of parliamentary groups is a position that is procedurally unacceptable, but Governor Radovan Jelasic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42338	The proposal is that this member is not accepted as a whole.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42339	Therefore, the National Bank did not accept the amendment to Article 18, which was submitted by the MP Branko Ljiljak. I would like to thank the rapporteur for the clarification, given that there was obviously an idea of partial acceptance, which is procedurally not possible; an amendment could have been made. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 19th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Antić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42340	On Article 19, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs have already spoken to some of my predecessors from other parliamentary groups, I just want to express the solidarity of the Serbian Progressive Party with all those who believe that there is no room for the President of the Republic. The President of the Republic shouldn't be a peacemaker in every stew. It's completely inappropriate for him to make a proposal to elect a governor. On the other hand, we believe that this bill has gone too far. We also seem to have some recent political reasons behind this, the obvious need to call emergency elections, which will be followed by consumption growth, sales of Telecom, free action. The Free Action Act has already been passed in the National Assembly. It is obvious that demand will be increased and that, in any case, it will affect monetary stability, price stability, therefore, the stability of the entire financial sector. The President of the Republic wants, on the one hand, to have control over the executive power -- the Prime Minister is from the Democratic Party -- and at the same time to control the governor, to control monetary policy. How far we're going to have to go this time and what price we're going to have to pay in these next parliamentary elections, we're just going to see. But judging by what happened a few days ago in Bora, I have the impression that this government is ready for anything, for all kinds of manipulations. It is certainly why the government has defined that the President of the Republic, as some supreme authority, as seen by members of the Democratic Party, controls the indirect and governors, controls monetary policy and all of the very bad consequences that could potentially arise from this campaign and the increased demand that will follow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42341	It's been used 20 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42342	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr. Governor, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, citizens of Serbia, I, of course, have again in my hands the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Article 112 The constitution clearly defines the responsibilities of the President of the Republic and we, as MPs of the Democratic Party, will never pass any law that encroachs in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which violates the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which cuts with what is written in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on the President of the Republic and its competences says the following. Article 1 - represents the Republic of Serbia in the country and abroad. Article 2 – by order declares the laws in accordance with the Constitution. Article 3 - proposes to the National Assembly of Candidates for Prime Ministers, after hearing the opinion of representatives of elected election lists. Article 4 - proposes to the National Assembly the holders of functions in accordance with the Constitution and the law. I can still read the members of the Constitution now, but I don't want to take the time of the parliamentary group. I believe my fellow MPs from some opposition parties may have a complex in the fact that they are unable to win the presidential election. They may have a problem with all their hearts, and then they get up here nicely and give their hand to the winner in the presidential election. Don't blame the Democratic Party for beating you in the presidential election. Don't blame Boris Tadic for beating you in the presidential election. Don't blame the people, you can't change the people. Try to change yourself a little bit and look for the causes of your defeats within yourself, not in the citizens of Serbia, not to look for reasons for your defeats under the difficult circumstances in which the elections are held.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42343	It was used two minutes and 40 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 19th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Đuric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Arsen Đuric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42344	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr Jelasic, we have submitted an amendment to Article 19, where we have proposed that attitude 1 be changed and that instead of the words "President of the Republic", the "Committee of the National Assembly of Finance" stand for "five" and "six" to "six" to "five". I must say that I fully agree with colleagues who have expressed opinions and opinions that the President of the Republic should not propose the Governor of the National Bank of Serbia. In the current law, this was done by the Assembly Committee in charge of finance affairs. I will read the government's explanation for the proposal for this law: 'The basic objectives of adopting this law are to strengthen the position of the central bank of the Republic of Serbia, above all its independence and independence... ''As the main objectives are the independence and independence of the National Bank, I really don't see any reason why the law is changing in the sense that, instead of the Assembly Committee on Finance, the governor proposes the President of the Republic. We have a President of the Republic who, in addition to the tasks to be done by the President of the Republic, very often appears in the role of the Prime Minister, in the role of at least half of the ministers, and foreign affairs and internal affairs, and is headed by the National Security Council, at the head of the National Infrastructure Council... You may have left out to provide for some national monetary policy council in this bill, whose head would be the president of the state, since it is still the responsibility of the state, and that it has and that it is the way it behaves. I think this is totally unacceptable. It is logical that this is done by the Assembly Committee on Finance, as it has so far. There's a feeling that they're changing and supplementing this law, basically, because of this, because we have a choice of governors, and this rest could have been written in three or six months. The goal was for the President of the Republic to get that kind of authority, to propose a new governor of the National Bank. In the second part of this amendment, we have proposed that the governor's term remain five years, as it has been until now, not to increase to six years. I think it's quite enough period, it's longer than the mandate of one government or assembly, but I'll talk about it in the next amendments, because I have two other amendments of similar content, when it comes to vice-governments and other officials of the National Bank. I urge you once again to really accept this amendment, because it is completely unnatural for the president of the state to propose a governor.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42345	It's been used 50 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42346	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Your Honor, Mr. Governor, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will again show the Constitution and this time ask all colleagues to read Article 112, in which the President of the Republic's jurisdiction stands. I just quoted it, so maybe there's no need to repeat to everyone what it says in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It's written in Cyrillic, there aren't many pages and it's not hard to read. On the other hand, if this debate on the choice of governors and the choice of governors is someone trying to bring down the debate on the constitutional powers of the President of the Republic, it is again more about him than about those who have proposed this law and those who defend these legal decisions in parliament. So the president of the Republic should be a member of the National Security Council, and that is the president of the Republic of Serbia. Maybe someone thinks the president of some other republic should be a member of that council. The president of the Republic should not be sent to foreign ambassadors and asked where Serbia's borders are in the election campaign, but should, on the basis of his constitutional powers, receive letters of accreditation and recall from foreign diplomatic representatives, give pardons and medals, but I do not see any problem with the president of the Republic proposing a man who will also be governor of the National Bank. The DS when it makes laws, these laws don't come from the position of power and power. We assume that sometimes in this country someone else will run for President of the Republic will win, so he will be able to use these legal acts and powers. We assume that some laws will apply even when the DS is in opposition. I, as one of the founders of the Resistance, advocated that power in every country be a variable category. Once and for all, power has not been given to everyone. Management of this country has also not been given once and for all. And, I say, along with my fellow MPs, I am voting these laws in the belief that they will be applicable both when we are the opposition and when citizens once again give us confidence to be the government. So, here laws are not passed from the aspect of a party that is in power, because we treat Serbia as our country, as our country, as our republic, whether we are in power, whether we are in opposition. It would be good for the opposition to think in such a way and to make really constructive proposals, not to give criticism where there is no place for this criticism. So once again, go to the election, beat Boris Tadic in the presidential race, and you will have the opportunity to do what the Constitution gives you as his authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42347	Three minutes and five seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. I ask the Members of Parliament not to receive and direct you to the amendment currently under investigation. I now warn you, MP, to act in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, not to communicate with rude gestures and to look at the content of the amendment currently under review. After that, if you consider that the Rules of Procedure has been broken in any part of it, you have the right, on the basis of Article 100, to seek word and speak of breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. MP Arsen Djuric has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42348	Indeed, when I explained the amendment I submitted, I talked about the amendment and expressed the political position of the Democratic Party of Serbia, which I belong to. At no time did I bring the debate to the authority of the President of the Republic, but I expressed my political position, that is, the position of my political party. I hope Mr. Milivojevic doesn't mind if we have an attitude. He's got the opposite attitude and I'm not contesting it. It is certain that sometimes someone will run in the presidential election, that they will win and that Boris Tadic will not be president for the next 50 years, but we are against any president tomorrow, anyone to be president of the state, proposing the governor of the National Bank, because we think it is more natural and normal to do so by the Assembly Committee in charge of finance affairs. The constitution, of course, I read it. The President has the authority under the Constitution and the laws, and you are now changing the law to give the president the opportunity to propose a governor. I really don't see the need. What's the reason? The ruling majority also has a majority in the Finance Committee, but I think, because of the reputation and dignity of this home itself, it is logical that the Assembly Committee on Finance does so.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42349	One minute and 20 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Branko Ljiljak. The NBS has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 19th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Radojko Obradovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Radulović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milos Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42350	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Before I say anything about this amendment, I would like to read Article 112. The Constitution, where the jurisdiction of the President of the Republic is specified. Point 4 – proposes to the National Assembly the holders of functions, in accordance with the Constitution and the law. The fact is that today we have a bill of law, that this law has yet to be passed, and only after that law has been applied. The law can have a two-way solution -- this proposed by Mr Arsen Djuric, and it is possible that there is another solution, with it in the interest of Serbian citizens to be the solution given by the DSS, and we were only guided by it. I'd like to read article 95. The constitution, where it is said -- the NBS is the central bank of the Republic of Serbia, is independent and is subject to the supervision of the National Assembly, to which it corresponds. The NBS is run by the governor, elected by the National Assembly. The NBS is governed by the law. That's exactly what I said. We haven't passed the law yet. I repeat once again that from the point of view of the DSS MPs, a much better solution is that the law has a provision proposed by the National Bank Governor by the Finance Committee. Now let me say something about this amendment. The DSS was sure that you were not prepared to accept this amendment as explained by Mr Đuric. The DSS went with intervention to improve the proposed solution and we hope that, Mr Jelasic, you will accept an amendment that, above all, refers to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia making a proposal for a candidate for governor of the National Bank. Mr. Jelasic, I think it has excuses, first of all, because this member is also the 19th special newspaper, which provides for a different way of running for governor. I repeat once again, we have so far had the provision to do so by the Finance Committee. Now that's what the president of the Republic of Serbia does, as proposed by this law, and time will show who was right. It is interesting that we have received an opinion on the proposed amendments to the government, the National Bank of Serbia, that we have a presentation of one MP from the ruling majority who asked us to have the opinion of the Finance Committee here, that is, the Finance Committee is holding a debate on the proposed solutions and that we get an answer from the Committee on Finance on Amendments. I'm surprised we don't have the Prime Minister's opinion on the amendments here. If you already wanted to go to a better solution and if you are going towards a solution in the spirit of democracy, then why didn't you go to strengthen the function of governor of the National Bank of Serbia? If your goal is to strengthen the function of governors, why does the governor not submit his program to the National Assembly, who chooses him? The candidate for governor, Mr. Jelasic, needs to come out and present his program, a team before at the moment, when you resigned, the rest of it was undecided why you did it. We had a large number of party officials who said -- there are more candidates for governors, we talk to them, we wait for them to present their programme, so we'll go out with our candidate. If we want the governor to be independent, then I guess that candidate needs to present his program to the National Assembly, not to his partners. Because it is the National Assembly that decides on very important issues, on all issues that are actually about the citizens of Serbia. We have proposed an amendment for the governor to propose his programme to the National Assembly, that it is the best solution, that it is a programme matter and, if it is a programme matter, then MPs will vote for him if it is a good programme, and if it is bad, it is normal and it is the responsibility of all of us MPs here, not to accept the candidate for the governor. One more thing, what surprises all of us is the urgency you came out here in the National Assembly with a proposal for this law. If there had been any morals, it should have waited for the Assembly to elect the governor, so the governor would propose a new law here, and the Assembly would decide on the bill. We have for a long time, thanks to the will of someone, and the Prime Minister has named them more or less, we have a man who steps forward as governor of the National Bank of Serbia. That's Mr. Dejan Šoškovic. It surprises me, Mr. Jelasic, that you have accepted such a scenario and that you have come here at all to the National Assembly to defend this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42351	Four minutes and 50 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. On the basis of Article 27, I give the National Assembly and in the afternoon part of the session the notice I gave in the afternoon. The government of the Republic of Serbia made a mistake by sending a report to the MPs on whether the amendments would accept or refuse. I emphasized that it is written in the synopsis, which has before them presidents or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, and based on the report the government sent, and that I will not read it, because it is a mistake, unacceptable for a stenogram of the National Assembly's session. The government can accept or reject amendments only to proposals for acts proposed by the government, and not to any other act. Where any of the other constitutionally prescribed legislators, other regulations, amendments or acts are concerned, the Government may submit a report containing the Government's opinion on whether the Government considers that any amendments or legal proposals should be accepted or rejected as a whole. There are no errors of congregation service in this case, since congregation services cannot change on their own and on their own initiative the government report. What has been done in the meantime is that I have sent a letter to the General Secretariat of the Government and to the Prime Minister, in which I warn them that they no longer do so and that, when they send us a report on amendments, the words "accept" or "refuse" refer exclusively to amendments proposed by the Government. I also made an announcement about the status and role of the Finance Committee. Therefore, Article 51 and Article 52. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly define the responsibilities of the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs, and it is responsible for the NBS. This committee has not been held and therefore we do not have a report from the Committee. The Financial Committee, as defined by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Article 52, is not responsible for the NBS. And for the second time, I apologize to the MPs for getting a report from the government that is not in accordance with the procedure. I hope it doesn't happen again. National MP Milos Aligrudic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42352	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'm using the time of the head of the parliamentary group, of course. This article in 19, unfortunately, the promoter (I say 'unfortunately') because there are many other proposals, starting with Articles 1 to 101, is a key member of this bill in amendments and additions to the NBS Act, and the big question is whether this law would be found in an urgent procedure on the agenda of the National Assembly, respecting all other proposals it contains, that there is no desire to change exactly this. Therefore, to amend the provision laying down the way and procedure for the election of the governor of the NBS. Article 95. The constitution is in that sense unequivocal. He speaks of the role of the National Assembly in two ways. First, with regard to the election of governors, which no doubt falls within the scope of the jurisdiction of the National Assembly, but also with regard to supervision. You see, it doesn't have to be written in the Constitution or in the laws. But if we want to be in the spirit of democracy and in the spirit of interpreting the regulations that we have previously made ourselves, especially when it comes to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, then we must take care of the intensity of the author, i.e. on the domains and importance of the responsibilities of the National Assembly in respect of such an institution as the National Bank of Serbia. I do not believe that the founder wanted to take advantage of the opportunity to interpret Article 112 and the cited point 4 in such a way that in every law for each institution, the jurisdiction of the President of the Republic can be established in this House when it comes to proposing in-house managers of such institutions. Given the importance of, above all, the provisions concerning the independence of the NBS institution, this independence, in the logic of the legal order, regardless of whether we are talking about Serbia or any other country in this world that accepts the independence of such an institution in its fundamental meaning, can best be provided precisely and only through the coordination of the NSRS and the NBS. By implicating any third entity in this series, that relationship is being disrupted. This may be a theoretical question, but this theoretical question is being translated into our daily practice, through the action of the National Assembly, through the proposals that we receive. I understand that this proposal has been tabled by the NBS and that the proposal contains certain solutions that amend the existing law, but as long as the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia" does not publish any change to this law that is passed by the NSRS, so long as the spirit of the provisions arising under this law must be respected. In that sense, we in the DSS believe that the role of the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly, and even when it comes to the adoption of this law, is doubtless. Let this be a matter of different interpretation, but we interpret it in the only possible way - in accordance with the Constitution, in the spirit of the Constitution and in the spirit of the existing law. Therefore, to discuss this topic in communication only with the promoter, without any mediation from the National Assembly's competent board, whose role is clearly being completely pushed out of the game here, was unacceptable for us. You will see that in the amendment, once again submitted by a group of DSS MPs, which follows, there is a very interesting provision, where we say that unless the governor of the NBS is elected under the proposal of the President of the Republic, then the President of the Republic is obliged to repeat the proposal within 30 days. In order to avoid confusion, this proposal does not conflict with the previous view that the President of the Republic should not propose to the governor of the NBS Assembly, but we have been wise enough to see that all of our cry through the previous amendment that this will not produce fruit, so, when that is the case, be dear to the Proposer, even if to that extent consequent, so apply democratic values and principles to the amended provisions that you are proposing. You have to work them out to the end. You can't make a thing in half. If someone has come to mind in the NBS, and in consultation with some other elements of the government, to make this kind of change, then, by making a change in this direction, try to be consequent and do it all the way. She can only be done like this. These amendments you received from the DSS are one demonstration exercise that you should make a bill that should come before this house and vote on it. This is exclusively about communication between us, the MPs, and you, individually, in the tide. There was no other communication, nor was there any possibility of having it. Therefore, the debate on these amendments should be more serious and meaningful than the debate on other amendments, precisely because of the lack of procedures. Because when we have another procedure, then we can behave differently. It is a pity that the existing Rules of Procedure and the ruling majority in the existing Rules of Procedure did not foresee such a situation, in order to come out of them in one easy way, even if through the extension of the debate, through the possibility of establishing institutional replicas on matter in an appropriate way, not only through Article 101. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I think it would be your turn to accept this amendment which restores the jurisdiction of the National Assembly, because that is the essence of all of this, but it would certainly be your turn to accept and propose that the candidate for governor, whoever proposes it, be present here in front of the MPs with his program. That is what is necessary to do, as has been said so far. It's in the spirit of democratic understanding of institutions. Of course, unless you accept the first amendment, accept this second one, along with the third one, which will now be explained, which is that certainly one democratic procedure is established and one mechanism is what happens and what happens if the candidate for governor of the NBS is not accepted in the National Assembly after the presentation of his programme.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42353	Seven minutes and 15 seconds have been used since the time of the parliamentary group president. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the Governor Radovan Jelasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42354	As far as the candidacy is concerned, we managed exclusively by the Constitution, and as far as the programme is concerned, the law clearly defined what is the main objective of the National Bank. As regards the future governor's programme, monetary policy and monetary policy programmes, the Executive Board shall determine. Therefore, all monetary policies are adopted by the Executive Board and therefore we believe that the governor should not represent any programme, since, ultimately, the governor is only one of the members of the Executive Board.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42355	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42356	Mrs. Komic, I will take the opportunity to say something about these amendments that no one has explained on behalf of the SRS. In Article 18, the governor cannot handle business, but rather manage and organise the work of the NBS. You don't have a classic business, which would be market-based, if you were to go to market, etc. Basically, you're a state organ. The proof of that, Mr. Jelasic, is exactly what you just said – the President of the Republic proposes a candidate for governor. Well, the President of the Republic does not propose members of private societies, but state bodies. You see, I've been dragging you around for a week to accept that you're part of the state, part of the government, to get rid of the IMF, Darko Saric and the others. And now, Mrs. Comic, because of you, Mrs. Susana, Mr. Jelasic and those who have been arguing needlessly, let me explain to you how it's been going since 1993 with the National Bank and with the governors. After the good constitution of the SRJ, the president of the SRJ proposed a governor, a vice governor and members of the Council. She chose them, at the time, the Federal Assembly, which was introductory. Under the same regulation, Kostunica also proposed Mladjan Dinkic as governor of the NBS. The NBS Act was passed in 2003. Why? Because the 1990 Constitution of the Republic of Serbia did not know about the institution of the independent National Bank of Serbia, because the constitution was set up for the federal state, etc. And then there was a problem of what to do. The solution was proposed by us, radicals, in 2003 -- that the smallest mistake is if the president of Serbia proposes a candidate for governor. At the time, the chairman of the Finance Committee was Nenad Bogdanovic. Remember, Mrs. Comic? And then a provision was inserted into the law that the Finance Committee, based on a proposal from the parliamentary groups (and it doesn't matter how), would receive the status of the promoter and the National Assembly would choose. And then we said it was a bad solution. Meanwhile, a new Constitution was adopted in 2006, and you just had a chance to listen to the interpretation, or quote Article 112, point 4, where the President of the Republic was authorised. Someone doesn't like who the President of the Republic is, with a name and a last name. I can understand that, I don't like it either, but I can't say that I don't like the Constitution, that I don't like the name of a state organ. And the state body is called the President of the Republic. And now they're rebelling, and they don't know why they're complaining. Just to remind you, the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has neither the status of a legal person nor the status of an independent public. What kind of a proposer could he be? What's the proposal? Excuse me, please, the President of the Republic is, under the Constitution, the head of the executive authority, but he is also a mediator between the legislative and executive authorities. And if we didn't have a clear provision in the Constitution like in Article 112, the President of the Republic would have to be a candidate. How he's going to get to the candidate, his proposal, is a matter that can be incorporated into the law. To some, the governor looks like the Prime Minister, but it's a huge difference. The Prime Minister and the Government as an independent and independent state body are responsible for many policies, in this area for economic policy. They create both internal and foreign policy. The governor, however much he wants it, no matter who the governor is, can't do it. Now we return to that – the National Bank cannot be independent, it can only be independent, in accordance with the Constitution and the law. Mr. Jelasic said well – what program should we present when everything is defined by law, statute and other things? Well, it's simple and simple, although I've invited Mrs. Comicida to give me time G17 plus, to explain, because people fight unnecessaryly. Now let's go back to these amendments. Why did we propose that the term be five years and when it comes to the governor and when it comes to the vice governor? Because it's six years old -- even plus half. There should always be a little difference. There is no kind of independence of the National Bank compared to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, especially in relation to the National Assembly. You were listening earlier as they read the constitutional code, so they said the National Assembly was watching. It's not surveillance. But what's worth it is we've got everything going on here because of that 126. You see how that 126 gets rocked? And it is good that those who proposed that NBS law in 2003 and predicted the responsibility of the Finance Committee as a proposer, in accordance with the Constitution, have now returned to this solution, which is only possible. It is necessary to accept that the term of office is five years, both with the governor and with the Vice Governor. You need to accept this, too, to throw out the word "business." The governor can't organize the business of the NBS. The National Bank does not appear on the market as an independent legal person. He can run and organize work. And you are, essentially, a state body, whether we call it that or call it a state institution or, as it says in the Constitution, a central bank. Well, by definition, the bank is a banking company. This isn't the kind of bank. Who can do the money show? It's just a country. There are some countries where other legal entities do. You don't have to sin on your soul, you have to say that such solutions exist. But we have a solution like this. The National Bank is bound by the Constitution and law, and this is in line with the modern principles of legality. So, everyone in the system has been divided by the Constitution and the law. The National Bank of Serbia needs in the field of monetary policy and other policies to have those powers, to prescribe rules of conduct through normative action for all those it controls, but it cannot avoid the situation. And here, you see this solution that you've now made in terms of proposing the governor's candidate is just showing that the NBS is a state. It's not a free stock society, as someone thinks. It is always for everything that the NBS guarantee the Republic of Serbia, because it is a legal person. That's what this is about. After all, you yourself say in law that there are specialised institutions within the National Bank, such as the Coin of Money. You even have this department for forced payment. How could it make a forced payment if there's no state authority, if there's no monopoly on that kind of coercion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42357	Seven minutes and 45 seconds have been used since the time of the SRS parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Zoran Nikolic, Rade Obradovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Radulovic have submitted an amendment suggesting that a new article 19a be added after article 19a. The word is made by MP Milos Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42358	Since we were sure Serbian President Boris Tadic was not ready to accept our amendment as explained by Mr Djuric, the DSS went with a decision to propose this. Mrs. Komic, I think that you should have sent a copy of your memo to the government's General Secretariat about the government's opinion on these amendments, as MPs would have made less effort, because we were also dealing with this problem. This amendment, in essence, explains that if the President of the Republic, unless the candidate for governor is elected, is required within 30 days to propose a new candidate. What is lacking in democracy, and especially with us, is that the proposed solutions do not foresee at all the possibility of the governor not being elected. What will happen at all, Mr. Jelasic, if the governor is not elected to the National Assembly? This law does not foresee that solution at all. The President of the Republic proposes a solution, MPs vote on their conscience, based on a programme that we also suggested we have as an integral part of this law, and the law would have to say - in case the governor wasn't elected, what goes on. The best solution would be to propose a new candidate within 30 days. We think there's one-mindedness here and there's no need to vote on a dictatorship. The DSS, just taking care of the principles of democracy, believes that's the way it should be. A team before the candidate for governor suggests the president of Serbia, and I will repeat once again that Prime Minister Cvetkovic has already come out with a proposal for the candidate for governor to be Mr. Soskic. The papers are full of interviews with him. I don't even know how you look at it. One of the last interviews was where he gave an opinion on solutions related to the course and pressure from businessmen, that the Argentine model is not for Serbia, that it disagrees with the fixed course. Practically, he's not in your shoes yet, but he's already in his mind. In what capacity does he do this, and what is the authority of the Prime Minister in all this, if we follow this law, that he comes out with this proposal? That should be explained to the MPs here in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42359	One minute and 45 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42360	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Your Honor, Mr. Governor, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Honored citizens of Serbia, since I closely follow the debate and arguments of my fellow Members and I have no objection that everyone is the position of his MP club and political party to which he belongs, but the facts should indeed be spoken as they are. Boris Tadic does not adopt amendments to this law. The amendments can be accepted by parliament's majority, MPs, MPs' clubs to agree to accept or not, but Boris Tadic does not participate in accepting or rejecting the amendments. That's what the parliamentary majority does. One who has a majority in parliament can round his proposal collects the majority and accepts or rejects the decision. Once again, Boris Tadic does not sit in the parliamentary benches. He is the president of the Republic of Serbia and he does not accept and refuses amendments. I can accept the thought of my distinguished fellow MP, Mr Radulovic, that it is necessary to foresee in law the possibility that the motion of the President of the Republic is not voted in parliament and that certain opportunities should be opened to find an alternative and to find another solution, but I cannot accept the codification that Boris Tadic accepts or refuses amendments. It's the work of the MPs. It is the job of me and every other MP in Parliament to vote on or when we discuss these amendments, to agree on it, to reject it, to accept it, it is the job of the legislator, but it is not the work of Boris Tadic and the President of the Republic. He doesn't do the job. He doesn't do that kind of work.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42361	A minute and 55 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word is made by MP Milos Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42362	In several cases so far, the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic has shown that he is not acting in accordance with constitutional authority. We had almost, among other things, his statement regarding the "Tacun Bridge" and I'd rather say that it could and should be called a bridge of breath. Since it's a replica, let me rephrase Mr. Milivojevic. Mr. Milivojevic, in the meantime, I was able to get information on the price of milk in the Rasin County. The price of milk for up to 30 litres is 18-20 dinar. Most of the agricultural producers are just handing over that amount of milk. It is true that for quantities of over 200 litres of price and 26 and 28 dinars, even larger amounts go up to 30 dinars. But if we think about that common, poor farmer, what is the largest number of farmers in Serbia, and we know how you treat them, because you showed it by fact in the event of a natural disaster, we can figure out what their position is.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42363	A minute and 40 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group have been used. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42364	I'm not going to replicate, I'm going to use the time of the ZES parliamentary group. I think we have plenty of time. So, Article 113. The Constitution: 'The President of the Republic shall, no later than 15 days after the date of the legislation of the law, or no later than seven days if the law has been passed by an emergency procedure, bring an order on the declaration of the law or return the law, with a written explanation, to the National Assembly, to a re-determination'. The President of the Republic does not sit in this room and does not accept amendments and refuses to refuse amendments. His constitutional authority is to declare the laws by his signature from the day of the vote of law in the National Assembly, as I read from the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42365	One minute and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word is made by MP Milos Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42366	If you look closely at the stenogram, what I said, I said about Rasinski County. In Rasin County, the vast majority of agricultural producers have one or two cows. It's not the Rasinski County. It's just the Fishing River.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42367	It's been used 20 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. MP Srdjan Milivojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42368	Also, if you look closely, I was talking about the Fishing River and the Fishing River Valley, not the Rasin County.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42369	It's been used 20 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment, with a correction, was submitted by the MP Branko Ljiljak. The National Bank of Serbia has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Branko Ljiljak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Bojan Mladenovic and joint MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Arsen Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42370	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Governor, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Nenad Popovic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 21, where the second word "six" is changed in the word "five". I have mentioned earlier, when there were stories about the length of the governor's term, that, too, and when it comes to the Vice-Governors, the current law has been laid down, i.e. the law under which the term of office takes five years. According to the NBS, this amendment is not accepted because the extension of the term of office in the NBS authorities of five to six years provides additional guarantees to the personal independence of the central bank. I don't think that argument stands. As I said earlier, a five-year term is quite enough. So it lasts longer than the National Assembly's mandate and the government's mandate, so it doesn't match that mandate. I think that's quite enough and that this amendment should be accepted. In order not to report again, since I have an amendment to Article 23, which refers to the length of the term of office of members of the NBS Council, where we have also proposed to remain an existing five-year solution, i.e. to change it from six to five, I urge you to consider and accept this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42371	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 21st Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42372	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems to me that the way the governor is elected and the mandate he chooses to create a rather complex situation in the Serbian Parliament. However, I must draw attention to the DS, which apparently supports this bill and these provisions. You have repeatedly passed laws in your desire and hoped that you would enforce them when they came into force, and then not only were you not in a situation, but you were bitterly sorry that you had passed such laws. It cannot be clear to me why, when the Government and the National Assembly can stand before citizens of Serbia who appreciate their work for the past four years, the governor, members of the Council or members of the Executive Board, it is envisaged that they do not have to respond to the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The whole story of the National Bank's independence is just an excuse to provide certain government functions in advance for the implementation of a particular party policy, due to a period that is uncertain for this ruling majority. Ask yourself a question – what will you do if the National Assembly does not elect the governor proposed by the President of the Republic? The explanation that it exists in other countries can only be applied in one case, if the president of the state elects parliament, and here the president of the state is elected in direct elections. I'll continue later, about some other amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42373	It's been used 15 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Branko Ljiljak. The NBS has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42374	The purpose of these amendments is to bring the law into line with the Constitution. I think it's better that you went to a new NBS law, not what you've done, with these numerous changes of nearly a hundred members. All of our next amendments, when it comes to resolution and what conditions are necessary to get into this process, make a unique continent and surprise me that you didn't accept it, because it really represents the whole. But I have to distract you now. You see, you've still kept the solution that the NBS Council is the Supreme Chief for all. So when you choose, if you choose, this Shoskovic, and if I submit a motion for his resolution, it goes to the NBS Council, and that's where it stops. It will never reach the National Assembly. It's a illogical solution. And absolutely against the spirit of the Constitution. He who appoints, whoever chooses, is authorized and resolved. And you've put the fulfillment of the terms of resolution at the level of the Constitutional Court judge, so they're absolutely infallible. There is absolutely no such thing as infallible. This is not specifically about this amendment, but it concerns amendments to the following members. I'm trying to speed up this debate a little bit. Now imagine a very strange situation. When it comes to Mr Jelasic, after resigning, the Council found that conditions for termination of office had been met. Not to resolve, please, but to cease function. This came to the Finance Committee and it was also found that the conditions for termination of office had been met, that the function should cease. And he can't get into the National Assembly, which needs to be able to stop the function, so that a man simply gets rid of that job, that he's going to do other jobs. Now it turns out that we've been holding him for a few months, and he doesn't want to work, he doesn't want to be governor at all. He got sick of it, so he resigned. It's kind of like the situation with that Squim and the Shooter. The Sutanovac was expelled by the state, paid him not to work in the state service anymore, and returned as defence minister. It's the same for Bosa Nenadić. You know, as soon as it's out of office or some country pays just to keep it from working, don't put it back on the state line. It's a disaster. Here, see, now we have this situation, by the logic of things. The council discussed the resignation, it found that the conditions had been met. The Finance Committee, in accordance with the law, considered and said – conditions for termination of office were met. But when does the function stop? When it's determined by the National Assembly. And the National Assembly doesn't have that agenda point, and they won't have it for long. You know, Mr. Jelasic, it's not just a matter of law, that you push this bill so they can put someone on. No, the deal is that you're swallowing this function. You haven't completed your mission yet. And you're formally legally under arrest and we can't do anything to you. Whatever we do now with Mr. Jelasic, he says, "I'm sorry, please, I'm under leave." It's about like earlier on about the Statute of the National Bank of Serbia. You say for years the National Assembly has not given consent. Well, she didn't give consent because the congregation majority didn't put it on the agenda. Your G17 plus didn't want to put it in the agenda, not me in the opposition. We from the opposition blow your neck and can't wait to take you down. That's the prank. Now the bankers will cut their veins because of Jelasic, because without him, a disaster. In public, this Soskic is being forced, and he is in conflict of interest, a poor man, and before becoming a candidate. How did he advise the Prime Minister to conduct economic policy? It's a disaster. Now you can imagine what a disaster that would be if he were governor. It's a square-square disaster. And no one's saying he's already in conflict of interest. But that's when democracy comes down to 126 and when the Constitution and the law are interpreted just as much as it takes to make some interests happen. Of course, we from the Serbian Radical Party do not need to change our views for 15 minutes. I tried a little while ago to tell you what these were all about, what's been going on since 1993, so I reminded those who had just criticised these solutions that they were practically in the positions of the Democratic Party in 2003. It takes people a little bit to remember what happened, what they used to talk about, what they stood for. Because if it's forgotten, and it's going with a new story, then it's getting pretty tragic, and especially if there's someone in the O.R. who remembers what's going on.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42375	Three minutes and 15 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was submitted in the same text by MP Milovan Radovanovic and joint MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Milovan Radovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42376	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 22 of Law, paragraph 2 reads: "The members of the Council are elected for six years, with the right to re-election." The Serbian Radical Party's amendment envisions that the term of office does not last six years but five years. Why? In Article 12, Mr. Governor, to remind you, it is said that the authorities of the National Bank of Serbia: the Executive Board of the NBS, the governor of the NBS and the Board of Governors of the National Bank of Serbia. Is it according to our legal system, and about something you have answered in your opinion on the Serbian Radical Party amendment, the NBS can be an independent state body as a whole? The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says otherwise. For the sake of the public, although there is no television transmission, Article 95. The constitution says: "The National Bank of Serbia is the central bank of the Republic of Serbia, is independent and is subject to supervision by the National Assembly, to which it corresponds. The National Bank of Serbia is run by the governor, elected by the National Assembly. The National Bank of Serbia is governed by the law. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia could not give greater rights to the National Bank of Serbia in terms of independence either. It is one of the main objections of the Serbian Radical Party's MPs on the bill. The independent National Bank of Serbia - yes, but independent - no. It violates the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You predicted that the term of office of governor, vice governor and member of the Board of Governors of the NBS would take six years. It's a long time. This Article 22 provides that members of the National Bank of Serbia's National Bank Board, all five, are to be elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, by the majority of the votes of all MPs, at six years. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, elected by the Central Bank Governor's Council, has been mandated for four years. Why would one assembly of the National Assembly be burdened by another, the next meeting of the National Assembly, with another congregation majority? And not just that. Why would the previous National Assembly meeting, which elects the Board of Governors of the NBS for a term of six years, as you propose, deny the right future assembly, with a different parliamentary majority, that he can choose the National Bank of Serbia's Board himself? What's good (I can commend you as a promoter, NBS) is that you predicted, when it comes to the Council of Governors of the NBS, that a member of the Council cannot abstain from voting. That's a good rule and where luck is it's supposed to be everywhere, even in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You're either here for something, or you're against something. In response, the government said that the six-year term is worth choosing members of the Board of Governors because it corresponds to the analogy of the term of office of governor and vice governor. It's kind of illogical, because both of us and three of us in the SRS don't have to stand. No one should be chosen with the proposed term of office. Mr. Governor in resignation, in his opinion - who? Does the National Bank of Serbia as a state body, an institution of the system, or you, governor of the resignation? Because here in this act the opinion of the National Bank of Serbia stands – the National Bank of Serbia, governor. Signed, governor. Did the National Bank of Serbia give an opinion or the governor? The governor is not a state body at the same time, he is not the National Bank of Serbia. You, whether one or the other, have stated in your opinion that the amendment is not accepted for the reasons set out in the part of the reasons for the amendment in point 33 of Part Two of this opinion, where it states that the extension of the term of office to six years provides additional guarantees to the personal independence of the central bank. I understand that there is a working, professional independence in the work, in the doing of its work, there are responsible and less responsible, valuable or less valuable. It's one thing, but, on the other hand, personal independence -- what does that mean? That someone is guaranteed to be a member of the Council, that the election guaranteed him to be a member of the Council for a term of six years. That's really pointless. As you do, Mr. Governor. I don't want to create an awkward situation for you or anyone, but I really shouldn't. You are the governor of resignation, and now you are sitting here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in front of MPs, defending the state, the National Bank of Serbia and this bill on the National Bank. It's a little illogical and incompatible with each other. Because it's natural in a man's psyche that you are now thoughtless and otherwise turned to some other job that you'll be doing after the resignation or after the election of a new governor under this law. And finally, did the increase in the term of office for members of the NBS Council to six years contribute to overcoming the ongoing economic crisis, although recently the president of the Republic of Serbia, Boris Tadic, said – even though citizens still have difficulty living, the economic crisis in Serbia has passed? Say it and stay alive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42377	Four minutes and 30 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42378	Ladies and gentlemen, let me continue, as well as the previous amendment. So the president of the Republic of Serbia could propose a governor only on condition that the president chooses parliament. Here, in Serbia, according to the Constitution, the president of the Republic is elected in direct elections. None of you have thought about what if the political options of the President of the Republic and the ruling coalition in parliament are different. It is explained that if the proposal of the President of the Republic is not adopted at the assembly session, it will act in accordance with the law. I just don't know what law, because it's not defined in the draft of this law, or in the National Bank Act that you're changing now. Mr. Governor, I have to tell you, no matter how hard you get to extend your mandate to both the governor and members of the Council and the Executive Board, it's enough that only one of my colleagues is taking out the heads of Parliament, writing two amendments to the amendments and supplementing the law, and that all of this falls into the water. You cannot have that independence until you enjoy Parliament's trust, and you can only have Parliament's trust if you answer to parliament for everything that the NBS has. Just like that. Otherwise, such amendments and additions to the law, which every MP can write, and when this law is passed and published in the Official Messenger, you won't get anything, and finally get back together with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42379	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Vesna Pesic, Ivan Andric and Slobodan Maras. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The total time available to the parliamentary group is four minutes and 50 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42380	I have to say, there's been an error in this amendment, but that's no reason not to explain what's in the jurisdiction of the NBS Council, and it's about determining the dinar course regime. These days there were some misunderstandings about what was greater, what was wider, what was more comprehensive. Of course, the policy of the dinar course is something operational, which is in the jurisdiction of the National Bank, and in defining the regime should also be part of the government of the Republic of Serbia, because it is responsible for economic policy, and to define what kind of regime it will be. Four or five systems exist, so that they can identify themselves, and then the National Bank will operationally end and achieve that goal, since this is the second goal, besides the first one, of price stability. Not to go into these details now, we were wrong to write this amendment, because we turned the line of words, but well, that's what you figured out, so it's not some big problem. You see, this point shows how much NBS can't be independent. Since the century, the dinar course regime, the currency regime, has been, I can't say, in divided jurisdiction, but the decision has occurred as it comes to a complex administrative act. However, this formulation of yours is a little unspeakable. Why? Because it implies that the proposal must be made by the Executive Board and that proposal must be such, unchangeable. That's what the government has to give consent, without the possibility of any influence, in order for the Council to vote on it. There is no solution between us. I don't know how Lalic allowed one of the previous provisions to enter into the bill, when voting on the Executive Board. The basic principle is one man - one voice. The basic principle is that every voice has the same value. You've kept the provision that, in the event of a tie, two votes will be given to the governor. How is that possible? Can you imagine what elections would look like, say, now in Serbia, if they were to say – the governor when he votes, his vote counts double? How is that possible, people? Where is that possible? You're about to have made phone sessions of the Executive Board. We've been through this somehow, there have been some other amendments, so it wasn't about that speech, but we're counting on, in the finality of this transmission, to say the same thing. It's a shame we wasted time on these very important things, about property and some other stuff. For the sake of the public, the dinar course regime is, if I may say so, in the jurisdiction of both the Council and the Executive Board, no matter what we call it, and must be asked by the Government. So it's consensual to get to him. Why? Because this course of dinars depends on a part of politics in someone's responsibility. How can you call someone responsible for the economic policy of the state without having any effect on the course of the dinar? That's impossible. That's why there's this, if I may say so, consensual jurisdiction. Now, this isn't exactly the end of whether it's given as approval, previous consent, subsequent consent, what's going on in peritoneal situations, what's going on in case of disagreement, what's going to apply, what's going to happen... And that's where the fact of politics is now being looked at, which can't be avoided. Mr. Jelasic, those who told you that the National Bank or the central bank is independent, independent, professional, etc., lie to you. Between the word "economy" and "political" for 250 years, there's only a sign of equality, there's no other. What someone's saying -- economic policy, political economy, etc., let go of what they've been saying. Politics is covering everything, it's just a matter of how much we can prevent politics from being misused for some interests. That's the problem. What if it shuts down? That's impossible. Well, if it weren't for politics, would you be governor?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42381	It was used two minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Branko Ljiljak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of Parliament Gordana Pop Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42382	Mr. Governor, I ask the question - why is this law coming to the agenda just when you resigned? Why didn't you offer it to us earlier? So, can you tell the citizens of Serbia and parliament how long that post of your governor will last? You know, when you say that one of the state officials or public officials is resigning, it immediately implies that he has less jurisdiction, less responsibility than he has in full capacity. So maybe you can do just some running jobs now, you can't do everything that your current law has put you in charge of, and you do, and you don't know how long you're going to do it. That's exactly what I'm telling you because I'm referring to this story by Mr. Krasic that you're not independent. Independent yes, but independent at all. So you're deep into politics, and you're probably aware of that. And you're very aware of the policy of the National Bank as a central bank, how much you've affected the way such reserves are created, and you've glorified it as your own merit. I mean, the reserves we have, which were made or preserved just by increasing the effect that business banks had to extract in the central bank. This, of course, has done a lot of bad things for the economy of Serbia and for the citizens of Serbia. No one benefited from that, we just had damage, but you kept to some tolerable level that value of the dinar compared to the euro. Now, when you go, since the IMF has gone deep into everything, as it has interfered and in what you have done before, and in the work of the Government and in your work, there will now be some negative consequences, which will be obvious, because there is no more credit (but you will now be spending the reserves that were created), then this new poor governor, who comes to your place, will be guilty of everything, and you will again appear and speak – so, while I was, it was not so, and now this is incompetent etc. Then you'll show up in two years, so maybe you'll be a candidate for Deputy Prime Minister or Finance Minister or I don't know what, because we're usually short-term memories. And one more thing, you didn't honor the Constitution, Article 95, because we've never considered your work, your work report, and you should have submitted it to us, because the assembly is supposed to oversee it. However, point 10 of Article 23, which we have amended to try to change, can indeed look benign, but it is not. I'm talking about the answer that was delivered to us by the promoter. Because you have proposed to adopt a strategy for the development of NBS (this strategy is very nice to you in all areas as a term), proposed by the Executive Board and followed by its implementation. We, of course, have seen in another light what the Council can do when it comes to the central bank. So that you do not bring any strategy, because the strategy is brought by the Government and, when it comes to finance, you can only adopt some planning act for modernising, improving, for more reliable and efficient implementation of the tasks of the National Bank of Serbia, which is proposed by the Executive Board, and follow the implementation of the plans. It makes sense to us, but the promoter says - it's not usually in the normative language. Well, the normative language we create here. Who's creating it? Who's the one who's gonna say what happened yesterday might not be today? We are against this new speech, but our proposal is not only normatively-legally different, but it is quite different from what is in Article 10. (President: National MPs, the time of the parliamentary group at your disposal has been used. ) You have not taken us seriously, and I ask you to look again and perhaps adopt the amendment after all.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42383	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) Governor Radovan Jelasic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42384	Thank you. We regularly submitted reports to both the Assembly and the Finance Committee. Since Mr Krasic is here, let me just say that the last time we submitted the report, we were told not to exaggerate in explaining all our reports, since we should hurry. And the reports were very important, among other things, what the NBS did to minimise the effects of the global economic crisis. My colleagues worked on that report for days, and then we got a comment to cut the story short, because we're in a hurry. As far as the NBS Act is concerned, neither this one nor the future one does set a special category of governors in resignation. So the governor is at full capacity until the Assembly chooses a new governor. As far as work goes, I, like all my colleagues, have just said, independently and independently, which is the same - without politics, worked for six years.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42385	National MP Gordana Pop Lazic has been reported with a request for replication. You have no right to a replica. The time of the parliamentary group has been used, and I have informed you of that while you have completed your presentation on the amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted by the National MP Branko Ljiljak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment, the National MP Marina Toman submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Marina Toman.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42386	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Governor, we have asked by amendment for an amendment to Rule 3 in Article 27 to change the way the Council decides. As I can tell, you accepted an almost identical amendment from colleague Branko Ljiljak. You have not accepted this amendment, and we have also asked that the Council make decisions by majority vote of the total number of members of the Council, not of the total number of members present. In a few sentences, I will explain the attitudes that the SRS had to conduct when he proposed to amend the Council's decision-making method. The decisions made by the Council are very important. The Council proposes a course regime, supervision, selection of auditors, etc. It is important that the sittings attend and that decisions are made, precisely because of these important decisions, by all members of the Council. It is precisely because of these and such decisions that the amendment regulates the decision-making process in a more appropriate way. It is about decisions whose application will have far-reaching consequences and they must be made by a majority of the votes of all members of the Council. The council has only five members. The question arises – can one decision have adequate weight if it is adopted at a meeting attended by only three members of the Council? Of course he doesn't have the same weight, and the promoter just wanted to make that decision possible. Now we see that he changed that by adopting the amendment already mentioned. The proposer also forgot the fact that if all five members cannot gather to attend a meeting to make a decision, and the Council, once again to point out, makes very important decisions, then such people are not in the Council, because they did not understand in the right way what the weight of the Council decisions are made, which raises the second question...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42387	Two minutes. Thank you. The word is Governor Radovan Jelasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42388	I thank Mrs. Tomman for the amendment. The mistake was on our side. We accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42389	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Jorgenka Tabaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42390	We are now advertised, Madam Chairman, that you have not called on Article 23 the three SNS MPs who have individually filed... I'm sorry, 32. My bad. It's 32, not 23. Excuse me, I've taken a minute and a half of useful time.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42391	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the suggestion to take away 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group, it will not be done, of course. On Article 29 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Witch of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ( b) The People's Parliament of the Faith of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42392	This amendment is a purely legal question and I think I'm able to convince the governor to accept it. Article 29 speaks of the end of the post of governors, vice governors and members of the Council. You said that the reasons for the termination of the term of office are the end of the term of office, and before the end of the term of office if they resign in writing, if their working relationship ceases due to the fulfilment of the conditions for retirement, as well as in the case of discharge from office. It must be added here, as a condition of termination, – if, on the basis of the findings and opinions of the competent medical institution, it is necessary to establish that the health condition has permanently lost the working ability to perform the function. You, in your explanation, say you cannot accept the amendment because Article 32 provides for this condition. But Article 32 is talking about a resolution. Termination and resolution are legally two completely different things. When someone settles their functions, then you predict that the Finance Committee is investigating the existence of a reason. I don't have time to talk about our position that it's only the Council, not the Financial Committee, but, when it comes to the termination of office, Mr. Jelasic, there's nothing to determine. The competent authority is this medical commission, which, people say, tells someone that it meets the conditions for a disability pension - 100% disability, it can't work. Like no one can ask you why you resigned. It is your will and your matter, and you automatically, of course, when it comes to the Assembly, the term of office ends. Also, when a person retires, his mandate ends by force of law. And this is the case when, by force of law, the term of office, or function, ceases. You should accept this as a contribution to legal resolution. (President: Two minutes. ) If you have a lawyer next to you (I am finishing, I apologize), let me explain to you that resolution from office and termination of office are two completely separate cases.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42393	National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 30th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42394	I pointed out, when I spoke about the previous amendment, that legal-technical regulations in this bill were not good. It is not good enough that Article 1(2) norms that NBS is the central bank of the Republic of Serbia, and in other provisions, including Article 4, which talks about the memorandum, about the press, about the seal, says: "The National Bank of Serbia has a seal, which contains the name of the Republic of Serbia and the name and headquarters of the NBS, as well as the Grand coat of arms of the Republic of Serbia". As a lawyer and given the numerous legal regulations and laws that have passed through parliament for these 15 years, I believe that the professional public will not be able to understand this unless the "Central Bank of the Republic of Serbia" is found in Article 4. Because, you see, in other provisions, you only mention the NBS, and only one member mentions the central bank. Wherever it comes to the National Bank, especially when it comes to Article 4, there will be great doubt, there will be shortages, as this Article 4 here should have been complemented by the fact that the NBS is the central bank of the Republic of Serbia, such as Article 95(1). The Constitution of the Republic prescribes. Legally, it's definitely not. You can convince me now, but you can't convince me, because I understand the definitions, I understand the laws that are being passed...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42395	Two minutes. Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by National MP Branko Ljiljak. The National Bank of Serbia and the Government accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42396	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Jelasic, you have no reason to say that you have worked for six years without politics. That's just not true. Because if politics hadn't had any influence, you certainly wouldn't have been governor these six years, but you'd be doing something else entirely. When I say this, I have no intention of disqualifying you in any way when it comes to your expertise, but we simply have to agree that politics has a certain impact. Therefore, the amendment to Article 1 submitted by the SRS, when we said that the NBS is not and cannot be independent, is fully confirmed by Article 30, or Article 27 of the Basic National Bank Act. The position of Article 27, says: "The Governor who resigned, the post ceases with the election of a new governor." This is an absolutely indefinite deadline. This may take up to six years, as long as it is now scheduled for the term of office of the governor of the NBS. And here, as the Vice-Governors are expected to stop their function after accepting their resignation, that is, for the longest six months since the resignation date, according to this, it was necessary to provide for such possibility for the governor of the NBS. There's another interesting question here, and it's about the amendment we submitted to the number of vice governors. You say two to four, and we suggest it be four. Respecting all the needs and importance of the institution of the central bank of the Republic of Serbia, we do not know when it is said – it ends with the election of a new vice governor... What if we had at a certain point four vice governors, and one submitted a request, stopped his function or for any other reason and, now we don't want...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42397	Two minutes. Governor Jelasic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42398	Thank you. I'm sorry, I'm always careful how I express myself. I said, during my work, politics had no influence. Of course, during the election, it is always the politicians, or this assembly, who will choose the governor.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42399	Member of the 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Zoran Antic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42400	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS has filed three amendments to this member of the law. It is that we are very dissatisfied with how the resolution of members of the Council, vice governors and governors has been resolved. We were hoping that one of these three solutions would be accepted by the government, but unfortunately, that didn't happen. In particular, as far as my amendment is concerned, we are very dissatisfied with the interference of Council, the Committee on Finance, the President of the Republic, the National Assembly, and even the President of the National Assembly. So, different treatment is given to a member of the Council, a vice governor or a governor himself. It is proposed, as for the resolution decisions, that the National Assembly vote on the discharge of a member of the Council without being properly informed, since its possible declaration of that resolution is delivered to the President of the National Assembly, not to the MPs and the National Assembly themselves. Therefore, we believe that the procedure should have been significantly simplified, that there is no reason for such a colourful ingenuity of different bodies and bodies, and that in practice this will mean that only the resolution will go very hard and there will be too much policy and there will be too little expertise when it is decided on the reasons for the resolution.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42401	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42402	Apropo of what you just said, Mr. Jelasic, that there was no politics in your time, I asked you one question today, and you didn't give us an answer. Tell us what your statement means that if you'd listened to politicians, you wouldn't have sat in that place as long as you sat down. If you think this law and what you've proposed is a mechanism to protect the independence of the NBS, I think you're wrong. Even you don't believe it. After all, it doesn't matter to you, because you're leaving the NBS. As far as my amendment to Article 32 is concerned, on behalf of the SRS, I have suggested that the Council examines the existence of reasons for resolving not only the governor and vice governor, but even a member of the Council. In your explanation, you wrote that it was not appropriate. You could have written that it wasn't in accordance with the Constitution, that it wasn't in accordance with some other law, that it wasn't nomotechnically acceptable, but what you're writing, that it wasn't appropriate, so we're not an educational institution, that something was appropriate or inappropriate. Also, when you continue to read the explanation, it says: 'because this would result in a conflict of interest, and, too, it was in the light of who is a member of the Council'. We had one, too. We have proposed that the Committee of the Republic of Serbia's Committee on Finance Affairs be excluded from this, and we do not see what is inappropriate here. There are a number of bodies, both state and non-state, who are not only questioning, but also deciding whether or not anyone should be a member of that body. Therefore, the argument is not very rational. I think you could have called on legal aspects, and this is how you defend this, that it's not appropriate, I don't think it really makes any sense. There is no conflict of interest here, since the Council appoints and resolves the Assembly, not the Council. The council could legitimately initiate the procedure, that is, to consider whether there were reasons for the resolution of a member of the Council.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42403	Two minutes. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42404	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the ten years I've been in the Serbian Parliament, I've read all sorts of arguments and laws. In Article 32, the procedure for the discharge of a member of the Council, paragraph 3, states that if there are reasons for the resolution of a member of the Council or of the governor of the National Bank, this shall be notified in writing by the President of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly, or by the President of the National Assembly. It's a little different when it comes to the National Assembly. It's a special body, a constitutional category. The position of the 5th member no longer informs the National Assembly, but rather the president of the National Assembly. When you have an obligation under the law, Mr. Governor, to inform the National Assembly, you write – to the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly, and he has an obligation to send it to the MPs as soon as he gets to the office, and when you write in law – to the President of the National Assembly, he does not have that obligation. That's what this is about. I can't figure out if someone's giving this kind of explanation. It's just a termological difference, not a fundamental one. This is what the Government of the Republic of Serbia has given its opinion, interferes with our business, the work of the Serbian Parliament. And the National Bank has given its opinion – the amendment is not accepted because the proposed solution provides timely notice of the National Assembly. Well, who is the National Assembly, the president or the MPs? And if it's just a termological difference, then what's the problem with accepting the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42405	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32, the People's Parliament, Gordana Pop Lazic, submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Gordana Pop Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42406	Mr Jelasic, when I put it to your mind that you have never submitted a report to the National Assembly (you, of course, have submitted it to the committee responsible), it was not at your expense, but at the expense of the President of the Assembly and the current chairman, who never put it on the agenda of this Parliament, that he is discussing it. So it's not only your fault, it's, first of all, those who operate the work of the National Assembly. So the Assembly doesn't have any surveillance. In transfer terms, it is not up to you, it is not up to us either, it depends on Mrs Comic or Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. The amendment submitted by the SRS parliamentary group concerns the amendment of Article 28, when the function of the function of the National Bank of Serbia is resolved. We have responded in paragraph 4 and asked that, when discussed, there is a mandatory presence and a motion for resolution officials, and it may also be the President of the Republic. What are you running from? So our opinion is that the Council determines whether the conditions are met, but its decision does not have a binding force for the resolution authority. I think the amendment has gone too far and you should accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42407	The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42408	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Jelasic, I have asked a parliamentary question to the government which was the Management and Executive Committee of the Bank of Privredna Pancevo. On 5 December 2008, I received the following answer from the Ministry of Finance – Snezana Munić, chairman of the Executive Board - five million and 400 dinars, Svetlana Kalajac... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42409	People's MP, please respect member 103 and speak in the agenda. In the discussion of the previous amendment, you used your two minutes to talk about a subject that was not subject to the amendment. Now you're repeating violation of Article 103. I warn you, either you speak on the subject of the agenda or you and I will be forced to enter into the application of unpleasant members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. So, on the subject of the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42410	There's Mr. Jelasic. This is something he needs to know. By the way, when I'm talking about the amendment, I'd really like to ask, because this will interest Mr. Jelasic. He'll certainly pay special attention to this. Let me say one sentence. Members of the Executive and Management Board of the Business Bank a.d. Pančevo... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42411	People's MP, I gave you a warning. Please take this warning seriously and do not mock the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Your amendment, which you are explaining, is that Article 32 of Section 5 is amended and reads as follows: "With the notice set out in article 3 of this article, the Council shall deliver the statement of the governors and members of the Council to the National Assembly." So, if you want to use your two minutes, go ahead. If you insist on mocking the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am at your disposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42412	Who am I mocking? Please, I'm just informing the competent authority of one fact. I believe that's what you're up for. It's just about the bank and the bank business, and it's about this law. Why are you taking away my right to give information to the governor and to you? I guarantee you're not up for this. This is something that's really fraternizing and it's a scandal. Let me have one sentence and I'll finish it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42413	People's MP, I'll give you a warning if you continue to violate the Rules of Procedure. This is the last warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42414	I'll give the governor in writing, and you and all the press, because you don't give me the right to speak. What can I do?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42415	People's MP, please do not lead the public astray. Your right to speak is not compromised. Your will to violate the Rules of Procedure has been compromised by your right to do so. That's not your right. You have two minutes to explain the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42416	Thank you. I don't want to derail.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42417	Thank you. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic wants to speak to hurt the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42418	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to Article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This morning, we found, Mrs Comic, that you were wrong when you warned Zoran Krasic that the EU had nothing to do with the National Bank Act. You have now made the same mistake when it comes to MP Petar Jojic. I must remind you that the National Bank Act, among other things, states that the National Bank is in control of the work of business banks. Mr. Petar Jojic intended to talk about exactly that and bring the content of his amendment into contact with something the law really says. If the MP does not have the right to explain in two minutes the amendment that is in the context of the National Bank Act in the way he considers it best, then the question is what the MP is allowed to do in the National Assembly for those two minutes, how much under the Rules of Procedure has the right to explain his amendment. As you were wrong this morning, Mrs. Comic, and we've proven it to you, so you're wrong now. The matter Mr. Petar Jojic wanted to expose here and how interesting it is for Mr. Jelasic's present governor. Mr. Petar Jojic has indeed tried in an argumentable way to bring up a problem which and how he is in connection with the National Bank Act, and he has done it in an extremely polite manner. The tone of your address to Mr. Peter Jojic is absolutely not suitable, nor content of his exposure, nor of his age. Mrs. Komic, I would ask you to have that fact in mind, to get a little familiar with the content of the law that is changing, and only afterwards do you conclude whether it is an MP in the topic or is it out of the question.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42419	People's MP, no harm done to article 27. You have, by reason, created a basis for expressing the measures set out in Article 100, which gives you the right to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. By seeing the stenogram you can see that I was right in the application of Article 27, both during the afternoon and during the afternoon part of the session. During the afternoon session, MP Zoran Krasic spoke about EU membership, EU member states, and quoted the European Parliament's president as saying. I asked him to bring it into contact with a subject that's on the agenda, nothing more and nothing less. That is what I am bound by the Rules of Procedure, as all MPs are bound by Article 103. National MP Petar Jojic has an amendment ahead and has two minutes to explain the amendment. The MP has been asked to talk about the amendment. Since he refused to do so, I did what everyone in the presidency normally does - I repeated the warning. Your position not to act properly because Mr. MP Petar Jojic is some years old, I find it an insult both to me and to him. The whole explanation is the basis for speaking, since you are mocking the Institute, which has been arranged in the Rules of Procedure as a right to receive a word and to speak about the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please don't throw it away. National MP Gordana Pop Lazic violates the Rules of Procedure and throws out of the bench inappropriate, inappropriate sentences, which involve breaking the Rules of Procedure. I refer you to the reading of Article 104, which says that the discard is forbidden both by mutual and by the chairman. If you think the Rules of Procedure apply only to others and not to you, then you force me to remind you that the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly apply equally to all participants in the debate. The 32nd Amendment was submitted by National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic. Do you want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Gordana Pop Lazic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42420	Madam Chairman, I'm advertising this very dignity of the National Assembly that you call upon. You've led the public astray that I've been throwing you something rude. I just said that Mr. Jojic has 15 years of parliamentary training...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42421	People's MPs, did you throw it out of the bench?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42422	Madam Chairman, I'm just, as a MP...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42423	People's MPs, you've been given the word to explain that a breach of the Rules of Procedure has been done...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42424	Yes, but you're...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42425	People's MPs, in your explanation you say you've been throwing yourself out of the bench. I ask you not to force me to apply the Rules of Procedure, which make me far more uncomfortable than you do. Thank you. National MP Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42426	We have submitted three amendments to Article 32. We consider it extremely important that this member regulates the resolution of governors and vice governors and the procedure for that resolution. That's why I was a little scared, because of the similarity of the numbers 23 and 32, that we hadn't passed that amendment. I have proposed this amendment that the procedure for the resolution of the governors, and in the cases provided for in Article 32, that procedure may also be initiated by a group of at least 20 MPs. It is simply that the definition of Article 32 does not respect the existence of the opposition in parliament and the Assembly, as a matter of fact, when my colleague Veroljub explained, means the President of the National Assembly, and in the event that I define that part, we also allow the opposition to be considered a Assembly, not just a committee or assembly made up of the ruling majority. You have shown me that you do not respect either the Assembly or the MPs who make up the call of parliament, because in the refusal of this amendment you have written that the resolution may be due to insufficient expertise, launched only by a competent body whose members are experts. The Committee on Finance consists of MPs, they are not asked for the qualifications and expertise of any kind, but are asked to be MPs and to work in the interests of the people, and the way in which those assessments can be politically motivated. To determine expertise is only one of the cases. You cannot dispute the right of the National Assembly to supervise you by never being able to initiate the discharge procedure, but in the game of the Council, the Assembly and the Committee in mutual information, you cannot actually be called upon to be held accountable and relieved. Please bear in mind the seriousness of this impossible solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42427	The 32nd Amendment was submitted by National MP Branko Ljiljak. The National Bank of Serbia has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42428	Ladies and gentlemen, we have proposed that an amendment be made in Article 32, and the NBS has proposed that a decision be taken to resolve the governors and members of the Council on the basis of reasoned notice. We felt that it was legally more acceptable and better to be on a reasoned proposal from the authorised promoter. Of course, we added that something which would mean that the whole resolution procedure must be terminated no later than 45 days after the date of submission of the motion for resolution, and if it is not decided within that time limit, the function shall cease by law, as determined by the decision of the President of the National Assembly, which shall be taken the following day after the expiry of that deadline. The explanation of the NBS for the refusal of amendments is that such a proposal would violate the continuity of the work of the NBS. Our intention was not to destroy continuity, but to force the competent state authorities to do their job within 45 days, not to have a V.D. The governor or governor in the resignation of two or three months because they cannot agree on representatives of the NBS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to whom they will propose, whom they will force to listen to the government, with whom they will have better communication, etc. To avoid the situation that Serbia is in today, we felt this was a rational proposal. Therefore, this was not at all a function of destroying the continuity of the NBS, but rather of bringing those who decide on it into those principles that you mention and insist on them and in this explanation, which are principles of corporate governance, ethical principles in the management of the bank or does not matter what institution. We think this would be in the function of something like that. You turned this down, of course, and, I repeat, I don't think it matters to you anymore, but it's important for the public to say it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42429	The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic to Article 33. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 33rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Arsen Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42430	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Governor, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we have submitted an amendment to Article 33, to replace the first word "six months" with the words "a year". This member of the law defines that an NBS official cannot be employed in a bank or another legal person whose business is controlled, or supervised, or co-operated in the performance of its functions, for six months after the end of the function. We believe that the six-month deadline is extremely short and that an existing solution should be maintained, that is, that period of one year. In commercial practice, there are solutions that can't be employed by such persons for up to three years, but since this would produce major financial effects, because it would have to be paid for so long, I think it's an optimal period of one year. Since NBS officials can use the information and data they had while working at the NBS, I think the six-month deadline is extremely short, the deadline of one year is optimal and I urge you to accept this.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42431	The 33rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. MP Zoran Antic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42432	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and the Serbian Progressive Party is in agreement with what my DSS colleague said. The fact is, the proposed solution is six months too short. We suggested that this deadline be longer than it is in the current law, which is a year. Our proposal is to be two years, and we think that this is appropriate given the importance that the NBS has and the fact that it controls a large number of institutions, monitors, co-operates with a large number of financial institutions and comes up with a lot of data that can in some ways be misused when someone is resolved or his mandate expires. What we have yet to see in this amendment is that in the second position, this right of compensation is limited to six months. But I think it's a little bit degutant, not to use some more difficult word, that the governor who's been resigning is proposing a six-month reduction from a year to a six-month term. The impression is that you, Mr. Governor, have already provided yourself with a job in one of the banks or financial institutions, so you have made an effort to enter into the law and this reduction in the time limit within which you are not allowed to be employed by such institutions. So I think this member is wrong, that it wasn't a moment, or a place, or you're the one who was supposed to propose such a member of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42433	The word is Governor Radovan Jelasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42434	All the records that the National Bank prepares today and which come into the hands of the future Executive Board are made up, if today is June, with a date - March 30th. As far as the record is concerned, it contains exclusively the essence of the control findings. Because the record, which consists of 80, 90, 100 pages, is based on the work of four or five people, who sit in that institution for days and have material measured in meters. Therefore, in this material which is signed and which is the basis for decision-making by the Executive Board, there is a minimum number of such confidential information, which means that members of the Executive Board of Decisions which they make base exclusively on what the findings of employees in the control sector are. Our proposal is to cut it from 12 to six months above all because of the extent to which things change nowadays and to save themselves, based on that.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42435	National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted the amendment to Article 33. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42436	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Governor, although in resignation, our amendment refers to the second position of Article 33, in the old law of 29, and refers to the length and height of receipt of a resolved official or an NBS official in resignation. We felt that this severance should amount to three average salaries on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, not six months of receiving the salary of governors or vice governors. Serbia's public needs to know that the governor's salary, Mr. Jelasic, is more than 400,000 dinars if I'm not mistaken. What does this matter? Because a certain time ago, the controversy of decency and rudeness, wealth and wealth was opened. Interestingly, that story is open by the President of the Republic. I would understand, Mr. Jelasic, that it would be polite to receive that salary of over 400,000 dinars for six months if Serbia had come out of the crisis. However, Serbia may have come out of the crisis, but statistically speaking, according to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. Since she's statistically out of the crisis, well, then let's accept that it's polite to receive 400,000 dinars for six months. In particular, if you look at Article 28, the reason why functions are resolved is if it is determined that he has performed his function indiscriminately and unwittingly. Mr. Governor, though left behind, six months times 400 and a few thousand dinars, that's two and a half million dinars -- because of unconscious performance. Great for the citizens of Serbia. We see how the taxpayers' money will be spent in the future. What exactly is the point when this law is summed up? What is the message to the citizens of Serbia? The message to the citizens of Serbia can be formulated like this: I, Claudius, the Emperor and God, the Empire, decided to elect a governor. And that's not just the case with this law, it's also some laws that have been passed before. Likewise, I, Claudius, the Emperor and God, the kingdoms of me, decided to restore Ozna to office again; I, Claudius, the Emperor and God, decided to choose the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. And we're talking about decency and measure for the citizens of Serbia. You see, it's very rude when it comes to real power, and very polite in rhetoric, it sounds nice as a pre-election promise. Mr Jelasic, that is why we believe that this amendment should be accepted, because it is really rude for someone to receive less than two and a half million dinars on account of the citizens of Serbia for six months. It's really rude.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42437	It was used two minutes and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42438	Dear Madam President, Mr. Governor, I understand the criticism of this law and the legislative provision that says the governor of the National Bank proposes the President of the Republic and understand the ambition of individual people from the opposition to make their views of the government, to have their vision of the performance of the presidency and of the president's duties project through this discussion and, in their midst, their subconscious, their hidden parts try to tell us, as well as the citizens of Serbia, how they see the performance of the presidency in the country of Serbia. However, I repeat, the president of the Republic of Serbia exclusively uses his constitutional powers. On the other hand, the usurpation of authorities, the usurpation of presidential powers, the usurpation of any other authority from any man, and especially from the President of the Republic, is a serious precedent for democratically formed societies. Any imputation by the opposition to usurp its powers is also a very dangerous claim, especially if it is not based on facts. Because, in an indirect way, she says that here, in Serbia, in fact, a mini coup was carried out by the President of the Republic and that now the President of the Republic has all the power in his hands, which is absolutely not true. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia still stands in force, whether someone likes it or not. The President of the Republic knows what his powers are, he also knows where the borders of the Republic of Serbia are, he also knows where the limits of his powers are, and there is no need further for me, as a MP, to defend the institution of the President of the Republic in this way, nor does he need to defend in parliament against unargumented accusations anyone to usurp their powers. I'm not saying this because of the Democratic Party, because of my fellow MPs. I am saying this because of the citizens of Serbia, I am telling the truth because of and because of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which we all brought together. I understand the complex of those political parties who are unable to win the presidential election. If they were wondering, they'd probably end the institution of the President of the Republic. But as long as the Democratic Party holds power in this country, as long as we have responsibility for all the functions we have assumed, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as the highest legal act in this country, will apply in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42439	Two minutes and 55 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. National MP Milan Dimitrijevic has a word. There are 12 minutes of MPs available.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42440	About the degree of decency and rudeness, I did not open the story in the public of Serbia, someone else opened it. And the words spoken cannot be more sincere and fairer than those who pronounce them. To support it with one fact. Sir, you defending the Democratic Party, the newspaper "Today" today on the other side says of Mr Oliver Dulic's rude wealth -- a million euros in action. Now, that's the defense of the Democratic Party. It's a story of dishonesty and honesty. Someone who has ten years of employment and who has been twice an MP, once president of the Assembly, has operated on millions of euros. Is that the story of honesty? Is that the story of decency? What are you defending? You're saying we don't have arguments. What's this argument? Who could in such short time in the Republic of Serbia acquire a million euros? Instead of covering your ears and keeping your mouth shut, you get up and say some shitty things and attack others. No one was talking about usurping the government. We're talking about decisions, and the outcome of such decisions is this -- a million euros in the account.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42441	Two minutes has been used since the parliamentary group's time. MP Srdjan Milivojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42442	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr. Governor, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the citizens of Serbia, do not need to defend the Democratic Party, but I do need to defend democracy whenever a protest is made against democratic institutions and the legally elected bodies of the Republic of Serbia in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. As long as the institutions and the democratic order are threatened and whenever threatened, I will stand up for these institutions. And when someone, due to lack of arguments, has to be called to write the daily press, does there need to be an answer? Is there a need to respond to this sudden spirit of colchos? To remind me of a song that was sung in Serbia in 1945- 1946, at a time of collectiveisation – Lenin is alive, he did not die, while Serbs and Serbs. Is there any need for me to respond to a calling call like this? Is anyone who's orthopedic supposed to be economically illiterate and can't do anything else? Do I, as a folk MP, have to live in an adaptive garage, in a garage, to say - well, I am not different from the average in Serbia, so I am qualified as a MP? I guess the people who are successful in private business have the right to be ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia. Is it a shame to be rich if you've earned wealth by work, effort, effort? If anyone thinks that the data in anyone's property card is faked, forged, untrue, untrue, that someone has hidden the data, do not address the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. If he really holds on to democracy, to democratic procedure, let the Anti-Corruption Agency address the prosecution, the judicial authorities of the Republic of Serbia, the police, the financial police. We, as the National Assembly, have passed the Law on the confiscation of property acquired by crime through the votes of this present majority. The word "richness" is derived from the word "god," meaning to seek something divine, to be perfect as God. Is it a shame to be rich in Serbia? Indecent to be rich and gain capital and property, it probably is. To gain capital and property by knowledge, effort, education -- I don't think so. If someone's getting hit because they want to tear down the cottages that were built without permission, it's not his problem. That's the problem with all of us. Because if we keep quiet while they hit him, they'll hit us the next day. That's why I have to defend Mr Oliver Dulic after charges like this, and I'd like you to read what you read from "Today's" newspaper from Oliver Dulic's estate map and ask the question -- how did he get it? But not actions, because for those who are economically uneducated I have to say that there are no actions in society with limited responsibility, but there is only a ownership stake, one or another. If someone is unable to respond otherwise to the gaps in these amendments he has submitted, he must resort to attacks on the entire government of the Republic of Serbia, all ministers, all MPs. But, undermining, I'm not anyone's lawyer, I'm just defending postulate democracy. If you consider me or any of the MPs to be unseemly wealthy, then see if he is the richest MP from your party's ranks. Yes, it is. But I don't think it's a shame, I even think that man is doing a good job and he's doing a good job, and I'll never point my hand at you and I'll say what you're saying to us, so you have an MP who can buy us all with ID cards together? Of course it's not an argument in a democratic debate. Of course, the argument is in a democratic debate to tell you that no one in the Republic of Serbia will usurp constitutional powers. If you feel that any minister from the Government of the Republic of Serbia has acquired wealth in an illegal way, if it has become illegal, do not address me, address the prosecution, contact the competent state authorities, the Anti-Corruption Agency, but do not try to hide the weakness of your arguments in the criticism of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42443	Four minutes and 45 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. National MP Milan Dimitrijevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42444	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this defense of democracy is good. Great. Too bad there's no direct transmission, to be heard. Mr. Millyvoy, you see, I'm not orthopedic, but I am some sort of specialist. I'm a specialist no matter how old your minister is, and I'm economically under-indulgent enough to know what the action is, but in so many years of my specialist training, I don't have any action, not millions. If that is how democracy is defended, the country of Serbia, you are in the difficult hands of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42445	Fifty seconds has been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42446	Someone can be a great orthopedist all their life, someone can be a great doctor, someone can be a farm engineer, like me, working all his life at a state firm and getting paid, and when he's downgraded all his bills, after 20, 30 or 40 years of work, he'll see how much he's saved from his salary, what he's saved, and what he hasn't. Someone can say - I'm not satisfied with orthopedics and doctors' pay, so I want to focus a little bit on private business and private business, and I want to register a private company, so I'm going to start working on this private company, but not when I was a minister, but at a time when some of them were struggling to finish their specialist studies. When I start working on this private firm, then I'll see how much I've made through that private company in five, ten, or fifteen years, and how much it's worth to me. If you're looking at the orthopaedic salary, Mr Oliver Dulic of the orthopaedic salary couldn't make it. If you're looking at the stake in the private companies he has, the traffic, who he worked with, how he worked, when he worked, then go ahead, take the check. Since you say you're economically well-intentioned, mathematics is an exact science, addition is not very complicated, collect his traffic, incomes, find out, if you're a good auditor, who he's dealt with, so if you find any abuse, let the prosecution know about it. You can tell us, but it's more cellular and meaningful to inform the D.A.'s office. But if you have no arguments to criticise the NBS governor's law, if you have no arguments for what you're saying, don't look under the carpet and where they don't exist. Then seek them exclusively in the inability to find facts that would attack the law properly. You can discuss this law and discuss any wealth in Serbia, but it will not help select the governor of the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia. So if you have no arguments, I understand that you're withdrawing from this discussion because of the lack of arguments, so you're moving on to another field, which is not the topic of the agenda. I'm still gonna stick to the agenda and talk about the governor of the National Bank. And I will say again -- the president of the Republic of Serbia does not usurp constitutional powers, on the contrary, he only works in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42447	It was used two minutes and 40 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. National MP Milan Dimitrijevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42448	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, I'm not pulling anything under the carpet and not saying anything that's unverified. This is a property map posted on the Anti-Corruption Agency website. So it's not made up, or under the carpet, and nothing incorrect is said here. But there's one other thing, that's what the Mr. Defence of Democratic Fluids remembers, and that's when we asked Mr. Dulic about the unintended spending of funds in the ministry where he was the minister. Do you remember the story of mosquito and tick spraying in January and February? Do you remember that? And the government's unsettling answers? And giving jobs without public advertising? And it's a good thing the property card is now given to the public. So you're trying to push me to make it up. I've never said anything about this pay phone that hasn't been checked. What could be more accurate than the one on the Anti-Corruption Agency website? Did I ever fill out Mr Oliver Dulic's property card? Did you fill it in, or did Mr. Dulic fill it out? What does Mr. Nenad Popovic's property situation have to do with Mr. Dulic's property map? Mr Popovic is not a full-time member of parliament for two years, and he has been doing private work for 25 years. You compare it. You'd like to mix grandmothers and frogs. And what kind of business is Mr. Dulic still in business, while we're at it? Have you heard of a conflict of interest? Minister of Government and consultant, with an income of 24,000 dinars at the Railway Hospital. That's what it says in Mr. Dulic's property card. Imagine I'm a National MP for a hospital and I have income. Take my property card and see if I'm a consultant anywhere. What do we do now? So I'm making it up again, huh? That's how they fight for democracy, when they try to disinformation from the truth. But this is true and the citizens of Serbia should know it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42449	It was used three minutes and 35 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. MP Srdjan Milivojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42450	Your Honor, Madam Chairman, I will use the right to replicate, without intent...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42451	You will not use the right to reply, MP, but you will use the time of the parliamentary group, because it is available, and the amendment currently under investigation is about compensation, the length of the fee and the amount of compensation, so that both of you are allowed to illustrate the subject. Here you go. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42452	When we talk about what someone's fee is for their engagement, from the governor to the Minister Oliver Dulic to, eventually, me, I'll say what I have to say, and that's the truth. Because whoever's telling the truth doesn't need to be afraid of anything. I'm not Oliver Dulic's lawyer here. I'm just here to defend the truth. You, Mr. Dimitrievich, have brought here some information that you claim to be true without the possibility of hearing Oliver Dulic. Since we can't do that, I'll read you his statement. Minister Oliver Dulic denies that he is the richest member of the Serbian government, citing that the Anti-Corruption Agency has released the wrong data. What do I ask you now? Who's lying now? He says information about his property card, which was published on the Anti-Corruption Agency's website, contains false data on the value of Rolpak d.o.o. "The total value of this company, which I am co-owner of since the founding of 2003, is today, unfortunately, significantly less than 800,000 euros, as it was in the report on the value of 100% capital." (Not 100% action. ) ''As I own only 11%, the total value of my share is almost ten times the value published on the Agency's website. It's also absolutely incorrect news that I'm a millionaire among ministers. "That's what Oliver Dulic says. Now I'm asking you - what now? Would you perhaps apologize to Mr Oliver Dulic for reading just now the data that you insisted were true, which is now said not to be true? I don't think you'll apologize, and I don't expect you to. However, I expect that when someone here delivers data, these data, first of all, will be consistent with the actual state of affairs. This is the actual state of data that you just took from your point of view, and this is from the point of view and from the point of view. So, I may be a defender of democracy for you, but maybe sometimes one of those should defend democracy.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42453	It was used two minutes and 40 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. National MP Milan Dimitrijevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42454	Mr. Milivoevich, I didn't accuse Mr. Dulic. This was downloaded from the Anti-Corruption Agency website. I didn't make this up. I'm not the one who wrote the property card. I'm not arguing about what you're saying, but I'm talking about something that's the Agency's official document. That's what I'm talking about, and you're saying I made it up. No, God forbid, I'm not making it up. If you're defending democracy from people like me, it's hard for that democracy.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42455	55 seconds has been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42456	It's hard for a democracy if it's what you think it is. Fortunately, what is the democratic structure of a country, you do not determine either you, nor people like you, nor political parties like the party you belong to. What is the democratic structure of a country, however, determines social events in that country, determine primarily citizens in the elections, freely given their will. Your doubts about someone's property and that dilemma are resolved by addressing the institutions. Since I can see you don't know, I'm giving you a heads-up now. Talk to the Anti-Corruption Agency, so say - I doubt the truthfulness of the claims made by Oliver Dulic by filling out the property card. Then go to the prosecution and say, "I doubt Mr Oliver Dulic acquired his property in an illegal way, spraying mosquitoes, ticks, cockroaches or I don't know who in the middle of January." Then contact the police and the financial police and ask them to verify the truthfulness of your claims. In the end, you can both as an MP and as a citizen to file criminal charges against Oliver Dulic if you consider that he has acquired his property against the law. But in the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia, there is also a criminal act of false reporting. Consider both options and identify what you do. I will not continue to participate in this debate with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42457	One minute and 40 seconds. National MP Milan Dimitrijevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42458	It may be true that neither you nor I decide on democracy, but it is true that in today's democratic society people die from hunger (an example of a woman in Leskovac). It is true that in today's democracy people cut the pieces of their body out of despair and starve. And that's the flow of democracy that you brought. What do we do now? Shall we continue to defend this democracy? When there's no welfare, so you starve to death? When contributions and wages are not paid, then people cut down parts of their bodies? Is that the democracy you represent? That's the democracy you're defending? That's where you brought our society to the lowest points.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42459	One minute was used by the MP's group. I would like to ask both of the MPs who are discussing that the subject of the amendment is to consider compensation in the case of resolution and the length of payment of compensation, as well as the amount of compensation. MP Srdjan Milivojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42460	In 2006, Mr Dimitrijevic, the prime minister's name was Vojislav Kostunica. I'll read to you now how many factories the workers were strikein' hunger and how many of them were hungry that year. Do you want me to read to you both in 2007 and 2008 or is 2006 only enough? I think it's only enough in 2006. "Magnochrom" Kraljevo – hunger strike, "14 October" Kruševac – hunger strike, "Zupa" Kruševac – hunger strike. Do you want me to go on or do you want enough? Let me get on with it. So in 2006, there were 126 hunger strikes in Serbia. In Serbia, she striked the country's working class during the rule of Vojislav Kostunica in 2006. I think that's enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42461	It's been used 50 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Milan Dimitrijevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42462	I don't argue there were strikes. The strikes are at the time of every government, but I was telling you about starving and I was telling you about cutting body parts out of despair, hopelessness, and that wasn't at the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42463	Thirty seconds. I really ask you both to enter a little consideration for the people you use in the argument, whether they strike, whether they strike hunger or self-inflicted. There are limits to the use of arguments and, if you don't remember them, I'm obliged to remind you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 34th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42464	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, when you look at the conditions for the resolution of the National Bank officials, so deadlines when they can be employed in the bodies whose control and supervision are carried out, it turns out, Mr. Governor, that you're rewarding someone. I have to tell you that. Here, assuming, scientifically, that you are the best governor of Serbia and you propose one of these laws doesn't mean that your successor will be that way. What if this governor, your successor, is resolved if it is determined that because of the unprofessional and unwitting performance of the function and the more serious failure to make and execute decisions and organise the affairs of the National Bank of Serbia, there has been a significant deviation from the achievement of the basic objective? With these changes, such a bad governor has the right to work in banks and other legal persons whose supervision and control are being carried out. Mr. Governor, whenever there is an unprofessional and unwitting act of duty, someone suffers damage and some benefit. If someone deliberately (and it is difficult to prove their intention, but only responsibility) leads to the fact that the bank does not suffer harm because of its unconscious and unprofessional performance but rather benefit, and at the end of the six-month term it is employed in that same bank, then he, Mr. Governor, is rewarded with these amendments and the additions of the law. You've rewarded a governor who's misrepresented his duty. Just because you're proposing one such change, she's the only one enough to disqualify you from that position, hypothetically, that you're the best governor of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42465	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward, Serbia" group submitted to the 35th amendment. MP Veroljub Arsic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42466	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is obvious that the legislator of this law does not take into account that a law in its application also has some life problems, which occur in the application of the law. I'm just going to give you one example. In the Law on Local Elections, Article 46 of the final position states that, if the committee ceases its term of office by performing the case referred to in Article 1(2) to (8)), the decision must be taken by the Assembly of the local self-government unit, and from 2 to 8) the committee shall terminate the term of office if it has changed the place of residence, in the event of death, the loss of business capacity, if sentenced to a prison sentence of more than six months. Something like that is not applicable in practice, because local self-government units can have 16 in the ruling majority, 15 in the opposition. If one loses his term from the ruling majority, he can no longer... The assembly has not voted his mistrust, cannot resolve it and there is an election call. What is it about your proposals? Here's the next fact. Whenever an authority, a Council, a Finance Committee or anyone, finds that a National Bank official fails to perform his duties in a secure manner, it is required to initiate the procedure for its resolution within 60 days. In your proposal to amend and supplement the law, there is no such time limit. There's no deadline. That's the problem. Even if the Board of Governors finds that there has been an unconscious performance and that conditions have been obtained for the resolution of the National Bank officials, it cannot, it is not binding to inform the National Assembly. It doesn't say when the procedure begins. It could never be. That's the problem with this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42467	The 36th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37, a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward, Serbia" group submitted to the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Vesna Pesic, Ivan Andric and Slobodan Maras. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward, Serbia" group submitted to the 38th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 39th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward, Serbia" group submitted to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 46th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Đuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. The word is wanted by Parliamentarian Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42468	This amendment is consistent with that amendment where we asked for the National Bank to be asked, controlled, and not just supervised, which is completely benign, and thus excessive, about payments to foreign and payment traffic at all. A solution proposed by the National Bank as if it wants to avoid liability for potential and future abuses of payment banks abroad. Clearly, there are such abuses, there were. You or contact the uninformed, and you cannot contact the authorities if you are bound by law. We believe that you really have a duty, because you are in charge of the financial system, of its stability and everything else, to carry out this obligation the way we have foreseen this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42469	National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric together submitted the 49th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 50th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42470	May I ask you to respond to this amendment, Mr. Jelasic? Why do you have the right to open accounts abroad? Does this have anything to do with this morning's debate that I started with a story about the establishment of a company that reportedly invested a billion and seven hundred million non-financial roles for the establishment of a company that will broadcast bonds to which it already has a silent consent so that somewhere abroad, both such bonds can be purchased? Maybe. I have reason to doubt, due to non-transparency in the manner of availability, management and management of foreign reserves. What do you need the right to open accounts abroad if you hold foreign exchange reserves at first-class banks? So far, such a right has not existed in the law, and I would really like you to get to know the public what it is for all of us, as citizens of Serbia, by opening this account? I don't see her. I see the possibility of actions behind the curtain, and that's why, on behalf of the party, we've been asking for the removal of this section of the member.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42471	The word is Governor Radovan Jelasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42472	Thank you for asking. If the National Bank cannot open an account and keeps money abroad, that means 10.4 billion euros should be in Slavia, so down in the basement, only in cash. This means that the state would not earn a single euro by loading those funds, plus transport costs, plus security costs, etc. So we keep money abroad, in the form of securities of value. Money is available on our current accounts and thus we provide smooth functioning of payment traffic with abroad, we provide everything about the functioning of the state in different currencies and in different countries.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42473	The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42474	And how did you do that so far, Mr. Governor, when you had no right to do that? This is the newspaper you're introducing with amendments and additions to this law. Where have we had foreign reserves so far? What kind of cash is it handled today, in a time of electronic money? What transport costs are you talking about, etc.? So far, you've had no right to do this, and you've managed foreign exchange reserves. Or at least you didn't tell us what damage we suffered because we didn't have permission for you to keep foreign accounts cash, electronic money, gold bars or what do you do?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42475	The time spent from the time of the parliamentary group is 40 seconds. The word is Governor Radovan Jelasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42476	We just wanted, through this law, to make sure that, in order to manage that money, the National Bank could open accounts abroad, since that was not explicitly stated in the current law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42477	National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42478	It wasn't explicitly said, but you did it, by the way. Do I hear well that the governor of the National Bank is being managed by the foreign exchange that all that is not forbidden is allowed? And you're asking the economy to keep the foreign exchange inflow for seven days longer than it can hold on to its account, it has to sell it to a business bank, or to the National Bank, and when it needs to buy foreign exchanges, it has to reserve dinars, make payments, risking in the meantime and almost always losing rates when it sells, or purchases foreign exchanges. Is this a relationship to the economy that we need to develop, or a relationship to ourselves as a National Bank, which is not only a special institution, but is, I said, above the court, because you don't let the court judge in your affairs, not even administrative? You used the right to which you had no "befel" by law and now you're telling us about the legality of the business and the benefits you're about to bring us. Who else can believe that? I'm amazed, to tell you the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42479	One minute and 25 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is Governor Radovan Jelasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42480	I sincerely hope that within the next few days, it will arrive at the Assembly and amend the Foreign Exchange Act, which is the foreign exchange law, which is precisely the many things you have mentioned that should be regulated. We have already given an opinion to the Ministry of Finance, and we hope that this particular issue, relating to companies, namely their holding of foreign currency, will be regulated. If you ask us, we've long given the opinion that such needs should not be. This means that there should be no need for companies that come to the exchanges to be obliged to sell them within seven days.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42481	A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward, Serbia" group submitted to the 51st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Veroljub Arsic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42482	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I asked that Article 51 be deleted, i.e. Article 48 paragraph 3, which reads - the NBS may be charged abroad on its own behalf, and for the account of the Republic of Serbia, with a period of payment of more than a year, and under a special law. I don't know, Mr. Governor, what's wrong with you, so this has to be erased. The only institution Serbia can now be in charge of without a special law for more than a year is the IMF, so even the one who reads it in the government did not know that he understood the reasoning. That's his problem. What bothers you to do your duty, propose to the National Assembly the law, that we know under what conditions you have entrusted the National Bank, the Republic of Serbia, the citizens, what are the deadlines for payment? Why should it only be an IMF privilege? There are other financial institutions in the world. Are those the only conditions? Are those the best conditions? Maybe some bank even wants better conditions. I don't see any reason why it wouldn't end up being translated into law. And that special law. You, Mr. Governor, and your future heirs and their colleagues were relieved of your responsibilities when the National Assembly laid down the law on that responsibility. Nothing more. Or, just that someone wants to abuse it, that no one in Serbia knows under what conditions the National Bank is in charge of the account of the Republic of Serbia, and interest and everything else will be paid, of course, by citizens of the Republic of Serbia from the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42483	The word is Governor Radovan Jelasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42484	We've thought a lot about it, but believe me, we haven't found any reason why the National Bank would be in charge abroad.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42485	The 61st Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42486	You have long sought reasons, but in article 48, it remains that the NBS may be in charge of the IMF with a repayment period of more than a year. Is it that this Article 3rd position of the 48rd was a condition that you could conclude a contract with the IMF? We still don't know what the deal between the National Bank and the IMF is about, and money is being drawn. Is that a condition to delete this item 3? If it is, then it's more of a reason that he has to stay. Because that means that only the IMF is privileged to have the NBS in charge of him, and no one else can. What about the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development? What about other financial institutions? What about the World Bank? Is the IMF the only financial institution that we can, as a state, ask for a loan? Maybe not, but when you write something like this, it must be the only one.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42487	The word is Governor Radovan Jelasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42488	The IMF is the only institution that provides credit to boost foreign reserves. All other institutions listed provide commercial loans. As far as withdrawal conditions are concerned, every time before the funds withdraw, or as the funds withdraw, on the NBS site, you can read exactly how much the National Bank is in debt to the institution. The next IMF decision is due on Monday. We will have nearly 400 million at our disposal and the NBS will most likely withdraw only about 60-70m euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42489	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. There is another minute and 20 seconds left for the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42490	Mr. Governor, I regularly monitor the NBS site, so I'm surprised by some data, like yesterday, when it comes to foreign exchange trade, that no one wanted to buy foreign exchanges from the National Bank and then you intervened with 20 million euros. I can't take your word for it. I can't even do the National Bank website. What I believe in is a law that's being published in the official messenger. He's not a guarantee that everyone will stick to him, either, but at least I'm sure they'll have legal consequences. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42491	It's been used 40 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. The 64th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward, Serbia" group and MP Branko Ljiljak. The National Bank has accepted an amendment to Branka Ljiljak's letter. Governor reporting for word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42492	Let me just apologize, there's a mistake on our side. Of course you accept both amendments. The amendments are identical.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42493	It is, by the way, a practice in the National Assembly that, in the case of identical text, it is considered that an amendment has been accepted. The 65th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Jorgenka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42494	With all the experience of studying matter and everything else, I can't understand, Mr. Jelasic, why can't the NBS have direct communication with all these borrowers in the Republic of Serbia, the Autonomous province, the local self-government unit, and why are you introducing intermediaries among yourselves, as top lender, and the authorities of the state and the state itself to which you should lend credit? I understand in that story about free share action, when it's only promised that the brokerage houses that do these jobs will do it without compensation, but the state will make it up to them. So we're saying we're making a promise to the citizens, and we're actually taking through their budget money to serve commissions and other expenses. But I don't understand why you're letting some middleman make money playing big numbers in a trade between you, as a top creditor, and the state authorities you're crediting? Because I think it's too much money for someone in between, we asked to delete this position of Article 2 65. And you find an excuse why in this poverty and the state's shortage and the desire for you to be successful, it takes someone to increase the balance by mass fees and fill our pockets.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42495	The 66th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 70th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 71st Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 72 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. The NBS has accepted the amendment. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward, Serbia" group submitted to the amendment to Article 73. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Jorgenka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42496	Article 73, as suggested, illustrates how our Mr. Governor and the team around him imagined control of the Assembly over his and their work, means both the work of the financial system and the licking of houses and insurance and everything you do. Article 1 states that by 15 December at the latest you are delivering to the National Assembly, for information, a monetary policy programme. We believe that informing is no way of cooperating with you and that a proactive role, which would be modern to say, and the right role of the National Assembly is that not only in this expert body, as you have called it - the Finance Committee, but also otherwise we talk about everything that the National Bank should do in the interest of all citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42497	The 74th Amendment, with correction, was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42498	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, all the time the governor like he wants to give up co-operation with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, whether it's good for the People's Bank or not. So, in Article 74, the governor can be called to a session of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the old bill, which is being amended, writes – the governor attends government meetings to discuss issues related to achieving the objective and function of the National Bank of Serbia. The NBS cannot achieve its goal without co-operation with the government. Neither can the government without co-operation with the National Bank. We're all fully aware of that. Then why leave the government to be able to call you or have an obligation, as it was in the old law, to invite you about it. Or do you think there are only enemies in the government? And these people, while you were governor, have been very supportive of you. Those parties chose you as governor. I can't understand at all what this member is and what his purpose is. One more thing, Mr. Governor. If the main objective of the NBS is to control inflation in some time period, you cannot achieve this goal without the stability of the dinar course. Because without the stability of the dinar course, you don't have foreign investments, you don't have investments. Even those who now have money, keep it, don't invest it, wait to see how this situation can be resolved. So, of course, it is your primary goal and how it relates to the stability of the financial market and never forget it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42499	It's been used 15 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. The word is Governor Radovan Jelasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42500	It's not about whether or not someone will forget something, it's just about what's in the law. It must have been proven in six years of work, that the governor attends the cabinet sessions, and he can't influence a single decision, that a question can be asked to what extent it makes sense, because after which member of the government he can say – there was the governor and eventually nothing happened. Because you know how the government decides - the governor, of course, has no right to vote. That is why the proposal is made that there is no longer any obligation, but that it can participate, that it can come when it comes to matters that are exclusively related to the work and jurisdiction of the National Bank.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42501	National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted together to the 74th amendment. MP Arsen Djuric has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42502	We have submitted an amendment to Article 74, where we are asking for Article 72(2). The law changes and says, "The Governor attends government meetings to discuss issues related to achieving the objectives and functions of the National Bank of Serbia." It is totally unacceptable for the governors to be invited to the cabinet session, especially since, in an explanation for the non-acceptability of the amendments that we have received, he says, "The amendment is not accepted because the governor will definitely attend the meetings of the Government at which important issues concerning the objectives and functions of the National Bank of Serbia are being discussed," which is not true because it says here – the governor can be invited to the cabinet session. We believe that the governor is bound to, when issues related to the functioning of the National Bank of Serbia are held at the cabinet's session, and that it is necessary for him to attend these cabinet sessions. In this way, the government will also be able to decide more effectively and more competently on these issues, given that it will have someone who will be able to explain what has been done so far, what has been realised and what is not realised by the dealings with the National Bank. It further explains that "by accepting this amendment, the government, or the competent ministry, would no longer have the duty of the NBS, to deliver opinions, to provide draft laws and other rules concerning the objectives and functions of the central bank of the Republic of Serbia." That's not true. It doesn't rule out each other. So the governor's presence at the government's session does not exclude that the National Bank will continue to receive whatever is necessary. That's why I don't understand why this amendment isn't accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42503	Member of the 74th Amendment was submitted by National MP Branko Ljiljak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 75th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popović and Arsen Đuric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Arsen Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42504	I'll be very brief. The law proposes that the Governor or the person he has authorised at the Assembly's session explain the law proposed by the NBS. We have proposed to the amendment that it cannot be a person who is authorised by him, given that it is such a practice, because both the Prime Minister or the Ministers have the right to explain to the National Assembly certain government proposals, and this right is not the state secretaries, nor the ministerial assistants, nor the other persons who are calling for a session, so that we believe that this right can have an exclusive governor, not the person he has jurisdiction over. Col. Branka Ljiljak's amendment has been accepted, although our amendment is more comprehensive, since it also applies to attitude 3, so I think it was better to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42505	National MP Branko Ljiljak, who accepted the National Bank of Serbia, submitted the amendment to Article 75. National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted together to the 75th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 75, a group of the 21st People's MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group submitted to the amendment. MP Veroljub Arsic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42506	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the governor said he had no desire to attend every cabinet session, that he had more important things to do. But, Mr. Governor, I don't see what can be more important to the governor than to have some law or report of the National Bank represented here in front of the MPs. And you have no right to send someone else. Even if, in some cases, the government sends a state secretary, it's not the government's decision, it's the government. That's what this is all about. You represent one body, independent by the Constitution, and you are elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the President of the Republic, so you wanted, but you can't even have the governor above the Assembly, and you can't have the National Bank in the Serbian Parliament representing anyone but the governor. Everything else is for me and my 249 colleagues, regardless of which parties, humiliation. So I don't see any reason, except for some boast, for one such amendment to be accepted. I understand you, you never did politics, so you went to the NBS and you don't know any unwritten rules in politics. But that's why the amendment was written. All you had to do was accept it, and nothing else. Our amendment required that the words "or the person who powers him" be deleted in Section 2 and 3. So it is the governor who, at the meeting of the Assembly, explains the law proposed by the NBS, who can explain at the meeting of the National Assembly the opinion of the NBS on the draft law relating to the objectives and functions of the NBS, as well as the opinion on the draft law governing the budget. Just the governor, nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42507	Twenty seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time and the parliamentary group's time has been used. The 77th Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42508	I want to say what was contained in this amendment, where we have advocated that there remain an existing solution, that is, nothing prevented the NBS from being successful without actually having the property available in terms of alienation of that property. Since this solution is, in fact, technically, which you may have reluctantly agreed to, but under the pressure of the Legislative Secretariat and the Republic Property Directorate, we have technically arranged it and practically this amendment has been adopted. I have to say, I'm happy because one big thing remains the same, and you won't mind being a good and successful National Bank.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42509	The word is Governor Radovan Jelasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42510	Thank you, Mrs. Tabakovic, and I accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42511	I find that the motioner has accepted an amendment with a correction, which was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward, Serbia". The 81st Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 82 of the amendment, with correction, a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia". Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42512	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the People's Bank with us, I hope, joking. So the National Bank wants absolute independence. She's not reporting to us to adopt him, just so we know what the NBS is doing. And then the NBS asks us to pay the missing funds to cover the losses of the NBS from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Mr. Governor, isn't that a little rude? You have foreign exchange reserves, you have various financial operations, different exchange jobs, securities of value, you have your incomes, incomes from payment traffic. Nothing is enough for you, but if you have a loss that has been achieved by the NBS and cannot be covered by your reserves, it must be paid from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. We mentioned that loss of 360 or 36 billion dinars from 2006. The loss was paid from the Republic of Serbia's budget. And did you give up, did you write off the debt of the Republic of Serbia to the National Securities Bank? You're not. And over here he needed that money. Although we covered your debt, the state had to pay you back the money, and to be in debt with various banks, to broadcast short-term securities of value, to create through interest on these inflation-value charters, so that the National Bank would be well, and all that time, Mr. Governor, you talked about how the National Assembly couldn't pass a law that would limit salaries to the NBS.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42513	Governor Radovan Jelasic answered the question.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42514	Thank you. I'll be very brief. So let's not mix up the used words here, grandmothers and frogs. Foreign reserves aren't capital. I'm sure, Mr. Arsic, you know that very well. I don't know what context you mention 306 billion dinars in, I don't know that number. One figure, however, I know exactly, which is that the budget, since I've been here for the last six years, has not covered a single dinar of the loss of the NBS, or the National Bank of Yugoslavia. As a third, last thing, you should talk about symmetry. Every time the NBS wins, it is, of course, paid into the budget, and that's why I think it's perfectly normal that if there's a loss greater than the reserves and the capital, then it's also replaced by the budget. But I'm convinced, based on the existing level of reserve, that it certainly won't come to that.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42515	National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted together to the 85th amendment. MP Arsen Djuric has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42516	We have submitted an amendment to Article 85(2). The view states that the NBS chooses an external auditor in accordance with a law governing public procurement over a period of at least three business years. In our amendment, we suggested that this part of the sentence "for a period of at least three business years" be deleted. We think it is not good to define a minimum time limit for the election of an external auditor in which he will carry out this type of work, because this can lead to an objectivity in his work. The adoption of this amendment would speed up the competitive spirit among auditors and would certainly have an increase of responsibility in the performance of audit operations. That's why I think this amendment can be accepted. But what's interesting is the explanation that we received from the government, which is why the amendment is not accepted: 'Amendment is not accepted for the reason that the NBS has announced the submission of amendments that regulate this issue in a more precise way'. Today we realized that the government should never have sent an opinion on these amendments. You wrote them not to do so in the future. Besides, I think you should write them a letter saying they don't write this kind of reasoning in the future. The reasons for not accepting the amendment can be that the amendment is not good, that a better-quality solution was given in the bill, not that the explanation is that the NBS has announced that it will submit the amendment. It's a scandalous explanation, and I think this amendment is good and there's room to be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42517	A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward, Serbia" group submitted to the 87th amendment. National MP Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42518	Article 87 amends the basic Article of the 83rd Act, under which the rights, obligations and responsibilities of the working relationship of the NBS employees previously applied regulations governing and the rights of employees in state bodies. You are now changing it and asking for rights, obligations and responsibilities from the employment relationship of employees to apply the law governing working relations, if this law is not different. It seems so benign, so gentle and sophisticated, and in fact it is an opportunity to enter into conflict of interest of your employees, which we will later, through one member of the law to come, and explain. We believe that this should be deleted, because someone who works in an authority that is not under the Constitution of a state body directly, but is owned by the state of Serbia and is a specific Sui Genis organization of state interest, should be subject to the rules applicable to employees of state bodies. This kind of liberalisation, which can turn into abuse and conflict of interest, we really don't need it right now, especially not today, after a similar debate that we've had here to hear. Why would someone feel protected and someone have all the rights that don't belong to him on any basis?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42519	The 88th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward, Serbia" group and joint MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. The word is Governor Radovan Jelasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42520	It's an ungrateful role. Obviously, we do not come often enough to the congregation, so we are not sufficiently verifiable, but, of course, both amendments are accepted since they refer to the same question.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42521	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Veroljub Arsic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42522	I'm prepared to apologize to the governor of the NBS for reading in a budget statement for 2007 that the funds were identified to cover the losses of the NBS. It's that famous 2007 budget. We've got two, one's in the deficit, one's in the surplus. Whoever was in the deficit was showing a loss of NBS. Mr. Governor, as MP, I would like to inform you that such a budget has been adopted. And what's the problem? The problem is that you were deceived by the then finance minister, the current prime minister. Or I misunderstood you when you said yourself that you were issuing securities of value to withdraw a larger amount of cash, so that inflation would not occur, and then the NBS, and in 2006, lost. So the 2007 budget defined the funds to cover the loss. I don't know what miracle it's not covered. Someone seems to have spent your money. That's what you'll have to ask the current prime minister, he was the finance minister back then.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42523	The 88th Amendment was submitted by the National MP Branko Ljiljak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 89th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. National MP Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42524	Article 89 is exactly the one I just announced, when I said I couldn't have NBS employees dealing with employees' rights in any other body, but in the state. You extend that protection to employees by this article in 89 as follows. You say they can't handle their political functions, that's clear, but you say that employees can go out of business and with the previous written consent of the governor to perform paid extra jobs and activities only if their performance doesn't affect the ability to create conflicts of interest or to carry out his business impartially. It means that the governor god, by his discretionary right, will assess for whom he can't do it, but you officially allow someone to say, the jobs you and I do will not be paid and will not come under the influence of this member of the law, which we are asking to delete. Because someone will get a fee for a job that works on black, past the bill, and that won't owe you any request, nor will you be obliged to give him approval under the law. So it's not possible for anyone who works for the National Bank to do jobs for which you're going to assess whether they're in conflict of interest or not, whether they're paid or not. That's why we need to wipe this out.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42525	The 91st Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. National MP Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42526	I have been waiting all day for Article 91, which is the highlight of the experience of independence, independence, untouchableness and such high throne and pedestal, on which the governor put himself and the entire National Bank. Article 91 regulates that almost all the data available, no matter how it comes to them, are employees of the National Bank - secrets. As far as surveillance is concerned, no one can know. And that's a nice rule of law. Article 86b. under this article, 91st says that the National Bank, Vice-Governors and other employees are not responsible for the damage caused by the conduct of the National Bank of Serbia's affairs, unless someone, some 'inhuman', some 'professor', proves that the damage has been done by intentional or extreme indifference. Today my colleague Velimir Ilic asked me - where did you get such peace and smile on your face? I said, I don't know you personally enough to say it's natural. But I am convinced that your passing article 91, which says that, and when you leave the job you're doing, you and your associates will never be responsible for the damage that has been done to your business. This is why you have the good mood and patience that you have today and that is why this member is deleted, before any other in this proposal changes and additions to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42527	The People's Parliament of Marina Toman submitted to Article 91 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 91 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 95th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the 'Forward, Serbia' group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42528	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I forgot in my previous presentation to say that I agree that foreign reserves can't be the capital of the National Bank, but it still has some income. You said so yourself – with accounts abroad and deposited funds, the National Bank is making some revenue based on these foreign reserves. Also, foreign reserves can, during sales, purchases, etc., be a way of achieving certain revenues on behalf of course differences. But I don't want to talk about it too much right now. This is about us asking in the amendment to tighten policy towards business banks. The governor himself has repeatedly warned banks in his statements and in press conferences that they must comply with the regulations laid down by the National Bank. But, Mr. Governor, as much as you threatened them, the only thing that could have happened to them was to pay for the damages of 100,000 to two million dinars and continue as they were. That's not too bad. Few will only change interest rates to short-term loans held by Serbian citizens by only 0.1%, and will compensate for the loss. And they'll keep going the way they were. I agree that the range of penalties proposed by this amendment is much greater than in the Law of Infractions. However, this is a special law, and banks are special financial institutions, many of which depend on the state. And I don't see any reason, except to be a pale excuse that it's not in accordance with the Law of Infractions, that you don't accept this amendment. So if the bank wants to play with citizens, with the regulations of the National Bank that protect citizens, the state and the economy, pay the fine. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42529	Two minutes. Thank you. The word is Governor Radovan Jelasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42530	You've also given an answer to your question. So it is a law that regulates the question of how much punishment can be, and it refers to the Law of Infractions. Of course, the National Bank, as part of its corrective measures, can impose much greater penalties, and express them day and day.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42531	The amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic to Article 98. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 99 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 99th Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic, who wants a word. Here you go. The word is Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42532	The refusal of this amendment, on the grounds that it is more appropriate than six months, shows that the motives for adopting this law were political. Because how is it possible for us to propose to reduce the deadline to three months in Article 99, and here we see in an explanation that the law is passed by emergency procedure? In that sense, it is completely unclear why this amendment was rejected. This again shows that the law has been passed for political reasons, because you said in a principle debate that a new law will only be passed that will adapt to the European Central Bank. Of course, you've avoided any discussion on the subject. The second reason for law-making, by reason, is independence and independence, and we saw in your accompanying letter that it was, in fact, a law that was passed under IMF recommendations.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42533	A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward, Serbia" group submitted to the 100th amendment. The National Bank of Serbia has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42534	Thank you. He's tied to that article 77, which we did, but I just have to say, to take advantage of the time, you'll let me-- Article 91 is too big. Mr. Jelasic, did you really need to protect yourself in such good and responsible work by not treating your work with the work of an employee responsible for damages, but, using the ruling of the High Court of Commerce in 2008, and not of you as a man in September 2007? Is there a sign of equality between your expertise, your well-meaning, and this kind of protection that you have now set before you by law? I don't think so. You gave yourself a unit, not out of control, but out of professionalism and performance. Don't take this too harshly. The work of Serbian advances on this law has indeed been very great, because this law is considered a cornerstone for the business of the Serbian economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42535	The word is Governor Radovan Jelasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42536	I don't take that as a criticism. The fact is, in many countries, the unit is the best rating.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42537	National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted to the 100th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42538	I'll be very brief. This is a scandal, this is a 100. Mr. Jelasic, I don't know who told you who gave you permission or blessing to bring this into this law, but this is how the property of the Republic of Serbia becomes the property of the National Bank, it is bordered by the scandal. It's a good thing you accepted the amendment. I wasn't in the O.R. when Article 77 was being discussed, but that implies that Article 77 is being deleted. I don't know what kind of attitude you've taken on that. What is proposed in this law is identical with the situation that local self-government in its congregation decides that the property of the municipality's congregation is now property I don't know who. So, I repeat, this is a scandal and it's a good thing that you've accepted to delete both member 100 and member 77, and if you're not, and that's what you should do.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42539	Does the governor want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42540	Thank God, there's no scandal here.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42541	National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted together to the 101st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 101 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. It's the last amendment to the search in detail. The People's Messenger Milorad Buha has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42542	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party to article 101 and asked it to comply with the provisions of the Constitution. In particular, the constitutional provision is clear as regards the entry into force of the legal provisions. It is that the Constitution has left the possibility to be in justified cases, but only in justified cases, can it install a provision under which the law can enter into force before, but here you put - the next day. It's the SRS's view that there's no valid reason for that. Here, as a reason for entry into force before the constitutional decree, you said that this was a alignment with the provisions of the Constitution. It is known that the Constitution came into force four years ago, so there was plenty of time to coordinate. If we know that, in parallel, other state bodies, from government to certain ministries, are doing a full reform, even in some statements, certain ministers say that this is a revolution in the area of financial and fiscal policy, it was more appropriate, to the governor, that you are in one part, which will process the entire financial and fiscal policy, proposed a law on the National Bank, the law on banks, the law on social insurance, the law on mortgages, the law on the stability of the financial system, the law on financial and fiscal responsibility, and that we are jointly discussing it, not individually, not with such cosmetic changes, but complexly. It's the only thing that would do this country any good. This is a basic complaint by the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-23-0.u42543	Since we have completed the examination of the bill's proposal in particular, whether the proposal's representative, Governor Radovan Jelasic, wants to give the closing statement, based on Article 144. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? No, I don't. ) In that case, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly has completed a debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 85(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Tuesday, June 29th, 2010, starting at 10.00pm, as the Day of Vote on the agenda of the Second Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. This is where we end the work. Given that we are on a delayed television broadcast, I hope we are in a good mood in this delayed television broadcast, with a good result of Serbia's football team. I want you to, by watching the game, realize the truth in the words I share with you. Thank you.
