ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-04-0.u46203	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to ask the Government one question, as well as the Ministry of Finance, and the question is, when will the property be returned to local self-government and the province of Vojvodina When will the Fund Act in its Republic of Serbia be put out of effect back in 1995? I would remind you that this law has centralized the management of the province's entire assets and local self-government. What does that mean? This means that local self-government and the province of Vojvodina were unable to dispose of their assets without the consent of the Republic Property Directorate. The agreement had to be sought for the transfer of rights of use, for alienation, for the acquisition of assets, for mortgages, for leases, or even for the termination of the lease agreement. This way of centralised property management has led to damages that today, after 15 years of application of this law, are about two billion euros to the detriment of local self-government. This is not a meaningless sum, since the same local self-government cannot possibly reach full funds, hence the non-intentional transfer of funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget, under the pretext that it is a crisis. In this way local self-government receives less than 40% of the funding provided for by the Law on the financing of local self-government, which allows many local self-governments to survive these times of crisis at all. The finance minister's answer to the question – why is the Law on the financing of local self-government not respected was that times of crisis and times of crisis justify and that the government does not respect its own law. So, on the one hand, we have a case to fully implement and implement the 1995 law, which has caused damage to local self-government. I am stressing again two billion euros so far, and on the other hand we have a lack of respect for the law under the pretext that times are a crisis. Apparently, there are two arches this government has, this executive government applies to local self-government. I remind you that nothing is done to pass the law on restitution. Nothing is done to end the denationalization. Therefore, nothing is done regarding the return of property to local self-government and AP Vojvodina. For this reason, I am stressing again and asking when will the property return to local self-governments and the AP Vojvodina that belongs to them for further development and economy, as well as these local self-government and the province of Vojvodina?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-04-0.u46204	The word has a letter from the Prophet of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-04-0.u46205	Ladies and gentlemen, for more than a month and a half, the SRS MPs have been paying attention to the public of Serbia for the life and inadequate treatment of our president in The Hague. We asked the Government of the Republic of Serbia on several occasions to initiate the discharge of the VMA chief, who violated all possible moral and medical norms when he refused to provide advisory assistance to the defence team, Vojislav Seselj. Of course, we expected that answer and then the government realized that to all MPs who had asked questions, to give an answer to the Ministry of Justice. We didn't ask the Ministry of Justice, nor do we think they were in charge, but they, we don't know what made them feel called. The ministry from which we asked for an answer is the Ministry of Defense, which we have found is, in fact, the Ministry of Lies, because it went public with some misinformation. Let me just remind you that in that ministry they did not want to accept a request that, on behalf of the defence team, was submitted by a party president adviser to our fellow MP, Boris Aleksic. The information that we received individually from the Justice Department is cynical and does not provide an answer to the questions that we are and that we have been persistently asking for more than a month, as I said. In this regard, we are drawn to the attention that the Office of the National Council for Co-operation with the International Criminal Court is familiar with the fact that Vojislav Seselj spoke of his worsening health status on 21 September 2010 at a status conference, etc. So this notice is descriptive, actually, they've rewritten what we've asked as a question. As far as this National Council office is concerned, we haven't addressed them on this subject, but for the need of a defense team, we've been looking for a court file. From 13 October to today, the defence team still did not receive the court file that was being held at once by the Belgrade Military Court and even repeatedly intervened directly with Minister Ljajic and promised - a being, we will deliver and eventually receive a notice from one official that the court file cannot be given to us because it requires the consent of Dragan Sutanovac. So again, Dragan Sutanovac, who in all ways threatens the defence of Vojislav Seselj and, of course, his health status. The operation of October 28th and what happened after the operation threatened Vojislav Seselj with two basic human rights, a human right to life and one of the fundamental human rights, the right to inform about health. Five days after the operation, Vojislav Seselj had not examined or looked at any medical staff, let alone a doctor. Vojislav Seselj doesn't even know what was done to him today, or whether the operation was successful, for as long as five days they haven't changed his therapy, even though they had previously given him treatment to reduce or reduce arrhythmia and tachycardia. Now if this operation was successful, the question is why didn't they change his therapy or the operation really wasn't successful, that's what we and Vojislav Seselj still don't know. We therefore appeal to the competent state authorities to take a little care of the health and life of the citizens of RS Vojislav Seselj. But your relationship with those Serbs who, in The Hague tribunal and those who, in your opinion, have yet to go to The Hague, are showing you by promising a reward of 10m euros to whoever gives you Ratko Mladic, and the Serbian Radicals are calling you, gentlemen of power. The lady said, excuse me just one sentence, said Mrs Kalanovic that the tenm euros were provided in the budget reserve. Please remove those ten million euros from the budget reserve and direct them immediately to the threatened after the King's earthquake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-04-0.u46206	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-04-0.u46207	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, one of the basic tasks of the Assembly is to pass the law. A large number of points and a large number of laws we are discussing are the laws on confirming various co-operation agreements signed by the government on behalf of RS with a number of other countries. These are extremely important laws. At this session there are 36 items of the agenda, more than 15 are just laws confirming various international agreements. For example, the addition of the Convention on the Creation of the Customs Co-operation Council, with the BiH Ministers' advice on tourism co-operation, on air traffic co-operation with the Government of Egypt, co-operation with Azerbaijan on the fight against organised crime. Two years ago, we had a very interesting situation. When negotiations with the IMF started, the government said the arrangement was not the subject of a debate in the Serbian Parliament. The content of the arrangement is not a matter to be discussed by the Serbian Parliament but signed by the National Bank. It is also proof that when you look at the list of tasks, because it is based on the agreement signed by the NB and signed by the government, without consent, without ratification in the Assembly, when you look at the RS loan from the IMF is not part of the RS government's debt. The finance minister has said here many times that this does not fall under RS borrowing. We have been witnessing that in recent days, although the story has been going on for almost two years now about reforming the pension system, two or three days ago news has surfaced that Prime Minister Cvetkovic and Minister Ljajic are fully in line with all the demands of pensioners and trade unions, but that they will have to discuss this with the IMF mission currently in Belgrade, but that neither the mission has the consent to give and discuss it but must seek the consent of the IMF and the headquarters in Washington. We have an agreement that has not ratified the Assembly, we have a debt that is not a debt of RS, and one of the most important laws has to get consent in Washington. How is it possible, as it is possible that something is not a debt, that we have no obligation, and that the most important or most important law that regulates the issue at this time is about 1,820,000 pensioners must be discussed in Washington? Look, the whole of Europe is blocked because of the much less changes their laws predict. All that's been going on in the past two years is a pretty sad story of changes to this whole law. What is the fact that the proposed changes provide for the benefit of budget savings only to reduce pensioners' rights. The proposed indexation is a unique solution, such indexation does not exist anywhere in the world. What the creators of this indexation, and they are from some international circles, warn it is precisely that such indexation long-term leads the average pension to a socially unacceptable level. It is sad that the reform of such a system is carried out primarily under the IMF's initiative. The IMF, by the nature of its work, is in charge of saving and short-term things, and this is neither the only nor the most important problem of the pension system. This pension system has much more serious, much bigger problems, and it is saddened that such an important law is being discussed in this way. My question to the Prime Minister, Mr Cvetkovic – what is in this agreement that this Assembly has not ratified, and what other obligations has the government made on behalf of all citizens of Serbia? One of them is Telecom, and it's in that letter of intent. That's what we've talked about here, but we'd like to know what else it says.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-04-0.u46208	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-04-0.u46209	Dear Vice-Presidents, honourable fellow MPs, respected citizens watching this direct transmission, wants me to inform all fellow MPs, vice-president of the Assembly and the public that I recently asked the Prosecutor's Office of War Crimes for the occasion, so I think we can say, on the case of Ilija Jurisic. So, I want to remind everyone that recently from a trial in Belgrade, and on the charge of the war crimes prosecution in Serbia, Bosnian-Herzegovina citizen Ilija Jurisic was released from prison. I would like to remind everyone that he was accused of taking part in the liquidation of 51 JNA soldiers in 1991 in Tuzla and of those 51 martyrs, most of them were our countrymen, so Serbs. I asked the D.A.'s War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, and I received a reply from the vice president of the Republic Public Prosecutor, where a deputy of the Republic Public Prosecutor, named Olgica Miloradovic, was signed, and he also writes for it. The first time I didn't get an answer to my original question, I got a copy. The answer says: "As regards your letter in the above issue, since 12 October 2010, we have informed you that we have referred the question of MP Miroslav Markevic to the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, which has raised and represented the indictment against Ilija Jurisic, in order to refer their findings to the People's Parliament and to the Assembly and to the relevant facts." So, I want to inform everyone that the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office didn't even ask for this, but in any case, thank them for getting this and for reacting and for sending any answer, and it is obvious that those who were supposed to answer this question, therefore, the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, did not do well to send an answer to one of the people's MPs. The question arises, since we have seen the citizens of Mr. Iliju Jurisic being welcomed as a national hero, has this man been unjustly charged, is he innocent and has the War Crimes Prosecution possibly as if for internal political use brought charges against this man? I think it's extremely inhumane and inconclusive of the families of 51 JNA soldiers who were brutally killed 20 years ago in Tuzla, I think they were in this way and this insecure treatment, the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, in some way, buried these martyrs again. Someone should be responsible for this. If Ilija Jurisic is innocent, or God forbid that it is part of a political agreement between the state of Serbia and BiH, then someone by some logic in the war crimes prosecutor's office should be responsible for an unserious, unfair and false indictment brought against Ilija Jurisic. This leaves a bitter taste for all citizens of Serbia, and of course especially for those families, who will probably never regret their sons. In this regard, if someone didn't happen to think that the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office is involved in its own policy, I call on him to publicly say whether there is a mass grave in Raška, as the media reported, that this is a done deal and just pending excavation. So, as a man and as a representative of the New Serbia party, I want all the localities recorded or there are some indications that there are and that these people are in a decent manner that are buried in these tombs, and the culprits are accused and punished. But, in this way, by declaring, as is the case with Raška, embarrassing in some way the whole city and the whole region and after nothing, and it always happens, the Members of the People's Parliament, before the visit to Brammertz to Serbia, so now that the prosecution turns out, or that some political balance is real or that it adds something to that prosecutor, let's just say, that's how I realized it. Especially since the media, we know which, announced that the tomb in Raska, who was watching television that night, could have found that the mass grave in Raska was almost on the way to excavations, that it was found there. And after that, nothing. So, I call on the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office to come forward with these questions and the notifications I've been looking for.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-04-0.u46210	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want to exercise their right under Article 286? The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? No, I don't. ) Since no more than the president, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, responds for the word, we continue to work. Notification of the invitations to the session. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Mrs Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, besides the representatives of the motionary Diana Dragutinovic, the finance minister, called for the meeting to be attended by Vesna Hreljac Ivanovic, Zoran Ćirović, Assistant Minister of Finance Predrag Aleksic, Head of the Department of Finance and Dusan Puric, adviser to the Ministry of Finance. We move to the 17-22nd item of the agenda: – THE PROPOSAL OF THE LEGISLATION OF SERVANT OF SERVANT OF SERBIA, THE GOVERNMENT OF THE JAPANISH AND THE APPROVAL OF THE TWO SERVANTS OF KINA, THE RESEARCH OF THE CARY SARINAL SARADY AND THE AUTHORITIES WITH THE CARINAL QUESTIONS (joint principled and uniform search) Notice of the absent national MPs. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, Nikola Novakovic, Zoran Kasalovic, Sasa Dujovic, Nikola Krpic and Djordje Milicevic. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue on the established agenda with a joint principle and uniform search on the proposal for a bill on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia to the KBC Bank of Belgrade, the New Credit Bank of Maribor d.d., EUROBANK EFG Belgrade, Vojvodina Bank a.d., Novi Sad, Hypo-Alpe-Adria Banka. Belgrade, Erste Banka.d. Novi Sad and Banca INTESA a.d., Belgrade, United Credit Bank of Serbia a.d. Belgrade, Raiffeisen Banka a.d., Belgrade and the Sociale Generale Banka Serbia a.d., who made a joint proposal for the law on the provision of the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of the Republic of Serbia in favour of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia.d. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint principled single search on the 17, 18, 19, 20, 21 and 22 agendas, and before the opening of a joint principle and single search, I remind you, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups of MPs by a proportion of the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, and that is: Parliament group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; SRS parliamentary group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group G17 plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; MEP group SPS - 18 minutes; MEP group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; Ambassador group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of parliamentary groups, have the right to speak once to five minutes each. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent: MP Zoran Kasalovic - the SPS-JS parliamentary group, MP Vlajko Senic - MP group G 17 plus, MP Veroljub Arsic - MP group Advanced Serbia, MP Dragan Stevanovic - the SRS parliamentary group. I ask other parliamentary groups, if they have notice of authorised representatives to deliver to us, that we may inform the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle and single search on the 17-22nd agenda. Does the representative of the proposing Dr Diana Dragutinovic, the finance minister, want a word? Honorable Members of Parliament, based on Article 101. Article 2, I call on the presidents of the parliamentary groups, i.e. authorised representatives or representatives of the parliamentary groups, to consult on the follow-up of this session, since there are no representatives of the motion, or representatives of the Government. I'm setting a break from 10.45 to 11:45. The consultation will take place at 11.00 hours in Hall 1. The break was determined on the basis of Article 87, and the call for consultations by all the presidents, vice presidents or authorised representatives, Hall 1, at 11.00, consultations for the absence and violation of the Rules of Procedure by the Government for attending the session during the debate on a joint principle and uniform review. The work continues at 11:45. Thank you. [[After break – 11:45]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will continue our work after the break. On the basis of Article 90(2), I am giving the necessary information on the conclusions of the meeting with the presidents, deputies or authorised representatives of parliamentary clubs on the follow-up today, 4 November 2010. Namely, Minister Diana Dragutinovic, who was scheduled by the government to be a representative of the government during today's session, has been informed that she has given information that she is sick and thus justified her absence. We wish her a quick recovery. However, the government did not send any other minister or member of the government instead of the proposed representative. The conclusion at the meetings of the president, vice-president or authorised representatives of parliamentary clubs is that in this case we do not wish to violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which implies the obligation of the presence of a representative of the Government, i.e. that this can only happen if all the presidents, representatives or vice-presidents of the parliamentary clubs agree on such a course. Since that's not the case for today's session, we're finishing our work and continuing our work on Tuesday, November 9th, 10:00 p.m. Thank you.
