ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38562	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on the official record of the presence of MPs, I would like to conclude that 99 MPs attend the session, and to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert identification cards into the MPs' units. At this moment, 92 MPs are present in the O.R., so there are working conditions. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by MPs Željko Tomic, Riza Halimi and Laslo Varga. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, called for meetings, in addition to representatives of the promoters Dr. Saša Dragina, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, to be attended by Željko Radošević, Mirjana Milosevic and Milan Petrović, State Secretarys at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Momcilo Mitreski, Milan Stegić, Milos Milovanovic and Slobodan Teofanovic, Assistant Ministers of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Dusan Pajakić, Director of the General Inspectorate, Dejan Serdar, Director of the Agency for Agricultural Payments, Saša Orlović, Director of the Directorate for Forests, Jan Bocanski, Director of Plant Protection, Zoran Jelacic, Director of Land and Zoran Mićović, Director of the Veterinary Administration. We're continuing our work on the agenda. We move to a common principle and uniform review of the 8-14th and 84-90th points of the agenda: – PROPOSALS OF THE LAWS ON THE SOURCES, THE GOVERNMENT OF THE SOURCES, THE AUTHORITIES AND THE PROGRAMME OF THE CONSERVATION OF THE CONSERVATION OF THE CONSOLIDATION AND EXPLECTION OF THE AUTHORITIES IN THE POSITION OF INDIUM AND ISRAEL, WITH THE WITNESS OF IRAN, AND THE PROTECTION OF THE CONSERVATION OF THE SOCIATION OF LIFE, AND OF THE EUROPEAN CONCERNATION OF THE PRITORS AND OF THE REASONS OF THE IRANEOUS IRAN, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have five hours to discuss the principle of parliamentary groups and to be deployed in the following way: the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS parliamentary group - Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS Group - JS - 18 minutes; the MP group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliament group Nova Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Sending Group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS Group - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent: MP Arpad Fremond, parliamentary group of minorities, MP Sinisa Stamenkovic, PUPS MP group, MP Zoran Bortic, MP group of SPS-JS, MP Zoran Nikolic, MP group DSS – Vojislav Kostunica, Srđan Spasojevic, MP group of SRS – Radisa Ilic, MP group of ZES – Željko Brestovac and MP group of Nova Serbia – Srdjan Spasojevic. According to Article 142(2) and Article 152(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a common principle and uniform review on the Proposal for a Law on Forests, the Proposal for a Law on Water, the Proposal for a Law on the Recognition of a Variety of Agricultural Plants, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Veterinary Law, the Proposal for a Law on Organic Production, the Proposal for a Law on Co-operation in the Field of Agriculture, the Proposal for a Law on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of India in the field of Agriculture and Related Sectors, the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran on Co-operation in the veterinary and Animal Health, the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the European Convention on the Protection of the Protection of Stembray and other Scientific Purpose for the Protection of the European Conventions, the Protection of the European Convention on the Protection of the European Convention on the Protection of the Republic and the European Convention on the Protection of the Republic of the Republic of the European Union, the European Union, the European Convention on the European Convention on the European Convention on the European Union, and the Convention on the Convention on the Protection of the Protection of the Protection of the European Union of the European Union, and the Convention on the European Union of the European Union, and the European Union, and the Convention on the Convention on the Convention on the Convention on the Convention on the Protection of the Convention on the Convention on Safe of the European Union of the Convention on the European Union for the Convention on the Convention on the Convention for the Convention on the Convention on the Convention on the Convention on the Protection of the Protection of the Protection of the Convention of the European Union of the Convention on the Convention on the Convention on the Protection of the Protection of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention, and the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the European Union of the Convention of the European Union of the Convention of the European Union of the Convention of the European Union of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention with the Convention with the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention between the European, and the European, and the Convention of the Convention of the European Twenty-five and twenty-six. Conventions on the protection and use of cross-border waterways and international lakes. Does the representative of the proposing Dr Sasa Dragin, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38563	President-in-Office of the Assembly, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable MPs, I am very pleased to see you again in a few weeks. As you know, last year the Assembly passed 15 laws in the field of agriculture. A few weeks ago, we debated two other laws here. There are 14 new laws and ratifications in front of you today. First we have seven very significant system laws. These are the proposal for a law on forests, the draft law on water, the draft law on the recognition of varieties of agricultural plants, the draft law on beer, the draft law on amendments to the laws on veterinary law, the Proposal for a law on organic production and the proposal for a law on the implementation of advisory and professional activities in the field of agriculture. Let me mention, as far as ratification is concerned, that these are four laws on confirming the agreement with India, Israel, Iran and Brazil. These are co-operation agreements, as well as two ratifications of the Convention in the area of animal welfare. Finally, we have one ratification from the area of protection and use of cross-border waterways and international lakes. I would like to pay particular attention to this presentation to the system laws that will regulate the areas of forestry, i.e. the water industry. You all know that the state of Serbia's forest fund is very heterogeneous, although Serbia has about 31% of the area under the woods, not even close to that forest is evenly distributed, in an adequate way. In addition, by my personal and professional conviction, the composition of the forest plant could be better and improved. What is most important and important to me, it is that we need to create one basis that both the state and all those who want to increase Serbia's noise can do so in a simpler, easier and cheaper way. Thus do We fulfill the debt of the next generation, for we all know what the Dragon of Job has said, wherever you see a good place, the tree of the people, and the tree is noble, and it will reward. For us, the most important part of the law is the one that deals with the establishment of a budget fund for Serbia's forests, which will be exclusively used for shaming and for finding funds for this very important activity. In this way, we are going to encounter problems that plague all countries on this planet, which is to solve the problem of carbon dioxide accumulation, solving the problem of global warming. The second law for us who is the key is the Water Act. As you know, during the 1990s, the lack of funds, due to the lack of care, the large areas of agricultural land were left without a irrigation system. Although we are the most developed network of irrigation channels in Europe, besides the Netherlands, even though we are a country with incredible water resources, they are not used in an adequate way, or very often we treat these water resources in a way that will last forever, as if they are an unsanitary source, as if there will be forever and we don't have to worry about them. This law will change a lot. What good will he do the farmers? First of all, we're going to make a new practice, which is the opposite and opposite of what existed so far, which is that we're going to encourage farmers to invest in irrigation systems. Any farmer who sets up a irrigation system in his field and thus improves his production, increases his yields, reduces the fees that the state charges. So far, there has been an unreasonable policy, that when someone invests in improving their production, the state further deepens it. I don't think that's right. In addition, the water law defines a fund to subsidize the construction of a irrigation system, because it is something that has become a matter of culture. All the European countries that hold on to themselves have found a way to provide permanent income for such a single fund. Some via VAT, some through a special fee, but in this way, most importantly, in the register, which will be at the service only to farmers who want to invest in such systems, will be able to merge between 17m euros and 20m euros annually. In this way, with some 6-7% of the surface under irrigation systems, we can get to about 30% very quickly, which is and which may even be above the EU average. I'd also like to say something about the organic production law. In addition to being particularly important for the fact that organic products are far more valuable on the market, more expensive, this is a law that helps to protect our natural and agricultural resources, to make good practice in agricultural production, advanced practice in agricultural production, and to improve rural life, and to increase profits for farmers and what is most important to provide healthy, quality food for our citizens and even more products for export and thus increase the income of our agriculture. The agriculture ministry, already now, has begun preparing and sublegal acts in this area, which will allow us to sell the products produced by us in this way on the other side of the border, in developed EU countries. There is, of course, a law on amendments to the Veterinary Act. It is a very important area, an area that depends on Serbia's ability to export food. For this reason, it is very important that we take steps in the EU and that everything that is new is adopted there, as soon as we adopt here and show that we are ready to be a good partner in this area and show that we produce very good food of animal origin, that our animals in the health care system are at the same level as domestic animals on the other side of the border and thus provide an even wider range of products that we can export to the EU. I would remind you that last year, after 18 full years of ban, we got free exports, so no quotas, pig meat processing, that these days we need to get free exports of fresh chicken meat. These days we need to get free fish exports and the Ministry of Agriculture is negotiating the possibility of exporting pasteurised milk to the EU country. It is also important for us to regulate other areas in a better way, so that we help our industry and our institutions to do their jobs even better and more effectively. For this reason, as a country which is a major producer and exporter of beer in the region, we have proposed that the area be regulated by law, that we legalise the recognition of varieties of agricultural plants help our prominent scientific institutions in this area, which are certainly the top of the technology and knowledge this country has, to do their job. Of course, it is a law on the provision of advisory and professional jobs in the field of agriculture, which is very important to us because knowledge, state aid, must be transferred to the end users, which are natural persons, farmers, family owners, in the simplest and best way. I can personally say that there is much that can be done in this area at her promotion. I think there is room to be through this law, or through sublegal acts that will follow this law much order and help farmers significantly. The Ministry of Agriculture is taking a lot of credit for international co-operation. We think that in this way the most can be done to increase the exports of our agricultural products. For this reason there are before you and ratifications of the agreement with the countries that I have listed in the previous presentation. Of course, the other documents we adopt today are in the interest of our country, where we show civilization capacity in respect of internationally recognised conventions and norms in our legislation. Dear Members of the People, as always, the Ministry of Agriculture will participate in the discussion of these laws. We expect you to help with your constructive proposals to improve these laws, and as you know and as it has always been a practice, regardless of the political group that proposes amendments to these laws, regardless of whether it is an opposition or a position, all amendments will be examined and all those who are acceptable, in terms of improving legislative proposals, will be welcomed to accept. I look forward to constructive discussion and debate on these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38564	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Do the rapporteurs of the Committee on Agriculture, MPs Zoran Mašić, Committee Chairman and Miroslav Markicevic, a member of the Committee, want a word? Mr. Miroslav Marinkovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38565	Dear Madam President, the Presidency, Mr Minister, Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, it is my pleasure to be an integral part of this process of adopting this number of laws from agriculture as an active participant in this. The Committee on Agriculture has considered these laws and, to say the matter, has declared it unanimously, however, with views that are more of a matter of technique, i.e. getting time for discussion, rather than of a professional nature. The laws we have discussed have been a top-notch contribution to modernising our legislation and harmonising with the EU, or regulations that govern it. What I would particularly like to stress is that these laws, which are concrete, modern and which finally create conditions that we can, in collaboration with the EU, represent an extremely important market for the export of our agricultural products, be able to work much faster by means of sublegal acts for which the conditions are created by the adoption of such laws are able to react quickly and be permanent in the trend of exporting products. As far as the Law on Forests and Water Law is concerned, these are laws that collectively resolve the management of the resources this country has. One very important data, that is – to produce a ton of paper, requires the energy of a ton of coal. So the easy relationship with such resources can lead not only to an ecological disaster, but also to a huge scale that threatens the real life of the population in one area. What God has given us should also be preserved by proper management, and what these laws provide as a possibility, means that we can produce, export and preserve, or increase that resource that exists. As for the amendment and addition of the Veterinary Act, it is important to understand the key fact, our country's chances of exporting agricultural products, especially livestock products, and it is only possible with the existence and alignment of legal legislation with EU legislation. These changes and additions, which are mature and which are completely time-consuming and our intention as a country, provide the possibility to start the process already, we end the process of integration into the European market by the end of this year. What am I saying? The state of Serbia already has export facilities that have the right and the possibility to export to the European market products of juniper meat, here, we heard, from pig meat, milk products. The essence of these laws is that, by respecting international rules, we respect above all the health of the people living in this country. The Law on Veterinary, Amendments and Supplements to the Law strengthens the role and function of the Ministry of Agriculture, in particular the Veterinary Administration, which is integrated into its control system in the Food Safety Act recognised by the EU as a reference factor and analysis of the results that exist, which are obtained through analysis of agricultural products, in terms of quality and health law, are fully recognised in all countries of Europe. Such a system is fully stabilised and forms an integral part of the EU through changes and additions. What does that mean? This means that Serbia has already, in terms of agriculture, already since the beginning of mid-2011 thanks to the Ministry of Agriculture and the adoption of 22 system laws in the area of agriculture, entered the EU. This is also a major liquid, and as a member of the Committee on Agriculture, I also said that in the professional sense the laws were fully adopted, de facto laws were adopted with separate opinions. This is not about political laws, but about professional laws, so I expect that in further discussion, all participants will have this attitude towards the law and help our peasant, whose legislation has practically sent these laws, use the resources that we have and thus create our own income, income in his area, not to move to larger cities, but to practically develop all parts of the territory in the context of even regional development. What's also important, the proposal for an organic production law, how important is that? You today have municipalities whose economy, that is organic production in agriculture, are practically strategic branches of development and employment of a large number of people. This should not be ignored and legislation should continue to be developed in this regard. What I want to say in the end is that it is an honor to be able to participate and to contribute to the adoption of these reasons, for the reason that it will provide much better conditions for attraction, for life in those environments that are most distressed, for the most impoverished, and that will provide the opportunity for such environments to develop and become attractive to life. I believe that these laws are mature and will bring full improvement, i.e. qualitative progress in further co-operation of our country with other EU countries.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38566	Allow me first to inform you that the authorised representative of the Prosperity Group will be Prof. Dr. Zoran Masic, to whom I give my word, but now as rapporteur of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38567	The Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, co-workers at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, thank you, Madam President, but it is agreed on the Committee that the authorised representative in front of the Committee be Mr Marinkovic. I took my opinion off the table, so I would speak on that basis, with all the suggestions. I can also speak as chairman of the board, but I would violate what was agreed on on the board, so thank you, in any case, for the given word. At first, I would like to say, since in some way Mr. Marinkovic called me, that I did not exclude the opinion of the order and that I would abuse the right to speak. On the contrary, I also had concrete objections in the principle debate, but it is certainly my wish that, even as the chairman of the Committee, using this business law, I can exclude my opinion and say something about the overall state of agriculture. Because we certainly can't boast that it's great, but at the very end of the day, it's the very ones who do agricultural production, and I think it's a chance for each of us to go once or twice to one of our villages and see how our agricultural producers live, just the ones that are most concerned with this agricultural production, because of the total working surface that our country has, 90% is individually owned, and all about 10% are some state country and social, if it can be said that the PKK is still some social enterprise or action firm, I don't know what its status is. The reason why I wanted to speak to you just before this principle debate is also to remind both the Minister and his associates at the Ministry, but above all, the Government that in the autumn, much less sown land surfaces than it has been in some recent years. According to data from the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, about 646,041 hectares were sown. The wheat has been sown only 484,840 hectares and is estimated to be the least sown area under the wheat in the past 60 years. If that's something we can say that reflects the good situation in agriculture, I don't think we can agree on, whether we belong to the position or the opposition. Certainly one of the reasons why so little wheat is sown is the problem with the price of the cereal in the past year or two days, but also with the price of the instructions that were last fall, and they are even worse this spring. This spring, it is available to sow some 2,800,000 hectares. We are witnessing a weekly increase in energy, primarily fuel and diesel fuel used by our agricultural producers for machinery. A large number of modern machinery is used by a euro diesel that is as tiny as super gasoline with a price. For the sake of truth, seed products producers maintained some of the prices they were during last year. They did not increase significantly, but some other inputs that participate in the cost of costing, including artificial fertilizer, were increased, although they went through a relatively favourable stock market, and there are ways to provide sufficient quantities. Not to say what the situation in livestock production is, where constant oscillations are the price, where permanently the infertile traps are destroyed, especially in cattle and pork. There are a lot of problems we should talk about today. I think there's going to be a chance that even the laws that are under discussion, but about other problems that affect agricultural production, we're touching ourselves openly, not stressing party belongings, but what is the reality of our agricultural production and how it is to improve in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38568	Mr. MP, you spoke for more than five minutes and you were right, because the Committee decided at a session of February 24th to propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt a bill confirming the Convention on the Protection and Use of Cross-border Waterways and International Lakes and Amendments to Articles 25 and 26. Conventions on the protection and use of cross-border waterways and international lakes in principle, and appointed you rapporteur. On that basis, you could have spoken for more than five minutes. Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee want a word? No, I don't. We're going on separate opinions. At the session of the Legislative Committee, the opinion was singled out by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38569	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I should now be presenting in five minutes 11 reasons why I have issued an opinion on the 11 proposals we are talking about here today, and actually 14 is on the agenda. Of course, you'll allow it to be impossible. If you were to accidentally interpret the Rules of Procedure correctly, I could speak 11 times in five minutes, and then it would make sense that I took my opinion aside, that is, to explain the reasons for which I took my opinion. Of course, what my colleague said earlier that MPs were just taking an opinion just to get five minutes to speak, it's quite offensive to me. We don't take any chances, we use what the Rules of Procedure gives us. Why don't the other MPs do it, that's their business and we don't want to get involved in it. But, all of this, starting with this agenda, from these joined together, that is, so many connected points of the agenda, believe all of this negatively affects the reputation of the National Assembly, the work of Parliament, because we are not able to say everything we should and what we intend to say for so long. The assembly is, and this is not the first time, obviously in a function of fulfilling the wishes of the RS government and that is what is not good. It also insults the dignity of the National Assembly. We know that the proposals for merger came from MPs, but it is also clear to everyone that it is because it has been agreed with the minister, with the government's representative, that ministers do not bother to come to parliament again and again. Mr. Dragin is always ready to communicate with the MPs. It is not disputed, but it would have been better if he had done so under every law, so that MPs could also make all the arguments that might have made any objections to the bill, and that Mr Dragin would have made arguments that the Ministry had led to make such proposals before the MPs. Unfortunately, this congregation has been turned into a flow water heater. They're just making laws from the government. They just run through here. We've started, or we've been working on the norm for a long time. We, ladies and gentlemen, are not a concrete block factory. We can't work on the norm. It needs to be done, laws should be passed. It is not disputed, but it must be done in a way that Serbian citizens know what the parliamentary group is thinking about what the government's proposal would be, in which way which parliamentary group, which party solves the problem currently on the agenda. Unfortunately, under these circumstances, we have no time or opportunity for such a thing. I expected Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic to react to Boris Tadic's statement last night. Mr. President of the State has no constitutional authority to assess Parliament's work in public. It's also a blow to the dignity of the National Assembly. He, as president of the DS, is able to line up his MPs at party meetings, criticises. We don't mind. As party president, it should also work, but it cannot and does not have constitutional authority to issue views on whether it was a terrible session, how anyone acted at the session itself, etc., and it is particularly hypocritical when Boris Tadic criticises some he created himself, criticises their violent behaviour, and when they serve to fulfill and do his dirty work for which he created them, then there are no objections to his behaviour. I point this out, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, to you and we expect in the SRS to draw attention to Boris Tadic for his activities, at least as far as parliament is concerned, to frame him in the RS Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38570	At the session of the Committee on European Integration, the opinion was given by MPs Radica Jocic, Momir Markovic and Sladjan Mijaljevic. Mr. Markovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38571	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when I saw so many ministers, deputies, assistants or state secretaries, as the deputies are now called, in the Assembly, I wondered if anyone was left to keep the house down? I'm afraid while you're here, someone's moved into those offices. Now let's get to the law. Since I can't talk about all the laws that I've ruled out to speak of, it's a short time, I will refer only to the forest law, but I would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Dragin, to make an effort to stop the greatest evil that is about to enter Serbia. I assume he heard that Monsanto is preparing to enter and conduct experiments at the Institute of Corn, Zemun Field. Stop that monster. Do not let GMOs enter Serbia. After that, I'm sure there'll be no more cure. Let's move on to the forest law. Do you think, gentlemen of the government, that this law will solve the problem in part or completely devastated forests that are now in Serbia? Let me remind you, the data I found right in this law is 27% of the forest in the EU, 41% in the EU, and once Serbia was the first in Europe in the woods. After all, the entire areas, the whole parts of Serbia, or, as Minister Dinkic now nicely overturns it, the regions were named after them in the woods. I was born from a village beneath Little Jastrepec, and I remember the way Little Hawk was forested and that every 500 or 1000 meters there was a spring because the forests kept water and that water was in the springs cleanest and today in several springs as many as there were left. Then some others came to realize that the forest had to be cut, that the tree had to be carried out in Italy, and now you have 100-150 meters per beech, and they brought varieties that weren't indigenous, varieties that didn't grow there, varieties that didn't fit in the end line conditions, and now you have wrinkles, not pines, but wrinkles that are 40 years old, and high three or four meters, where there were once hundreds of years of beech forests and covered the entire Hawk. With this law, I'm sure you won't be able to solve it. There is another problem that the state of Serbia must have before it comes to any solution to the problem of the forest, which is the return of the monastery's property and the monastery's forests. I know only one example, and I heard it in one presentation from Mr. Radisa Ilic who brought data that, for example, only the Ravanica monastery should return more than 1,200 hectares of forest. Why isn't the state of Serbia returning it? The answer is very simple – a part called the Besuljan meadow and which once took the state from the monastery and turned it into a polygon now prepares the same for a military polygon, but for another army, which in 1999 found appropriate, all 19 countries or 23, as other data stand, to bomb this Serbia. It seems to me that next to Bondsteel, there will be another large base for Russia to surround NATO or read American bases. If you had returned the forest when you promised, when you came after the "buloger revolution" to power, that you had returned the forest and property to the monasterys, today we would not have the problem of Kosovo and Metohija because the whole Metohija actually took away from the monastery by the communist Broz government, or King Alexander, for a time, and after that Broz took away from the monastery. Today we'd have a monastery property. The monasterys are Serbian and we wouldn't have this problem. After all, Metohija was named after Metoh, a monastery land. Now let's see how you've decided over the next 10 years to spend about a billion euros and I think you should, and analyze it. That was the reason I took my opinion out.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38572	Thank you. It's been five minutes. National MP Sladjan Mijaljevic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38573	I have singled out an opinion on the Committee on European Integrations on a set of these laws, so that the general situation in agriculture, and these areas that these laws need to cover, speak something different from what they really are intended for these laws, that is, laws are beyond what is necessary, but the situation in the country is more than bad, even catastrophic, so we think that some other follow-up steps have to be taken to overcome certain situations. The forest law is basically well-imagined, but in some parts it is unspeakable and we have intervened in these members with amendments, while in some members it is too sharp, and in some it is really more than inflexible. Of course, we see the tendency of this government and this government to put their hands on anything that can bring money, even the part that should help people living on the edges of the forest to overcome these crises that this country and this government have introduced, however, will not be able to use their good looks so easily. The law and the reasoning say that the state owns 53% of Serbia's forests, while yet some other data speak slightly differently. In the law, we didn't find out if you had predicted that through the restitution, you would return the violently taken forest, how much forest owned by private persons, as much as it owns a monastery, whether legal persons and monasteries would be able, under this new law, adequately to govern those forests when one day the state finally returned to them. How are you going to make up for the past 60 years of running the country by their property? Indeed, there are countless questions to which we have not found the right answers. Our view that for many questions is authorized exclusively by the Minister, I don't mean anything personal, I mean function, we think that indeed the minister has been authorized and, as far as I can see, under this forest law, we'll be back here next spring after the assembly benches and we'll work on this law. We think that the short or missed time related to the design of the performance plans is now that the field working season has begun, and a little less sitting in the offices. All those who make plans won't be in the field, they'll be in the offices. Also mentioned are some new formations of some private forest management companies, then licenses for forest engineers to do professional work in forest management. People will take those licenses after 20-30 years of working on the job, and yet it is decided by the minister closer. We just heard from colleagues Markovic that Ravanica's monastery was not returned to 1,200 hectares of forest, and the excuse is only those 60 hectares owned by the Serbian Army. Why hasn't it returned at least the thousand and a hundred and some hectares? Ravanica monastery is not the only monastery that has indeed been made a huge injustice by taking away their property. In Article 9, we see a number of activities or bans on certain activities in the forest. Of course, through other members, the possibility is given to remove certain permits for all of them, and now it's just amazing that a man who has been a generation or a family living on the edge of the forest, and whose ownership or possession is mostly in the form of a forest, will have to come to each of these activities, to go to the city, to stand on the counters and to get permission to survive in these difficult times. And believe me, there are those who are hard to raise in cash enough money to pay for a bus ticket to get to a town that's 20, 30, 40, 50 kilometers from their house, where there's a municipality or administration that's giving them those permits. So, even under the forest law, and even in agriculture at all, our view is that the situation is really alarming. We see that the minister is happy, pleased. And a man should have that positive suggestion, of course...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38574	Thank you. Time's up. Mrs. Radica Jocic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38575	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, on the Committee on European Integration, I have issued an opinion per set of these laws, so I would only be in short lines about one of them, because it's really impossible to talk about 11 laws in five minutes. First, according to the forest law, there are very few words in this law about shaming, and you will agree with me that shaming is the future and the forest and the state. If we plan to benefit from the forest at all, then first we have to take care of it. There are also few words, i.e. Only two members, Article 46 and Article 47, are dedicated to protecting the forest from fire, and we witness almost every season a large number of fires in our forests, bigger or smaller, so we were in a situation where we had nothing to put out the fires. In such situations, everything has to be planned to the point in order to respond in time. A far greater number of members are committed to forest management. So more places in the law are dedicated to that. It's not missed again - to form a tip for the woods, to be given very broad powers. I would draw attention to the fact that in this and other laws all the time, when it comes to numbers, of course, and money, the term on page 72 is used, where it's about figures of 375,346 "euro"; it's about Europe, not Europe. We have repeatedly insisted on it, and it is no problem to put it into the law. Then, on the organic production law, I would just say that it's very bad that in the last 10 years agriculture has been brought into such a state, that every production, whether it's organic or another, has been questioned. By passing this organic production law, as a great opportunity for the export and other Republic of Serbia, we should do as much as we can to help the situation. Still, it takes a long time for those people who left the villages to return to the country to be able to re-produce in villages, even if it was organic. We are aware that organic production is the future, but it is a question of how many states in this state are currently able to apply this law and enable this production to be revived. It is also a question of the state of home in villages, which are mostly nursing, i.e. the condition of the machinery, as well as agricultural land, since it has not been processed after many years, i.e. in what condition roads and approaches agricultural parcels. Because you believe me that many fields, at least in my area, are almost impossible to reach. As far as the water law is concerned, it is also very small, as the previous law does not give sufficient attention to shaming, so here it is not irrigation, irrigation systems. I don't think there's a future for agriculture without this important item. As regards the law on the recognition of agricultural plant variety, the SRS, as in previous laws, intervened amendments to amend this proposal. I appeal, since these laws will be adopted with more or less changes, that they are strictly applied in the area of particularly genetically modified species, because genetics should not be played so that the future of the plant world in our regions is not questioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38576	Do the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Mr. Arpad Fremond. First Mr. Stamenkovic wants a word? Yes, he does. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38577	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, the Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Mr Minister, the fellow Members, we have before us a set of extremely important laws that are once again being reviewed and regulated by a very important area of our activities, such as forestry, water industry, organic production, and the provision of advisory and professional work in the area of agriculture. The forest law, from our point of view, with regard to the solutions provided for in the draft law, is a significant improvement in existing solutions. In a really wide range of public debates on this proposal for a forest law, first all the professional entities in this area and then our general public have declared themselves. This time, the professional public has had the advantage of considering all new projected solutions over a significant period of time and of setting up the most important observations in due time, with detailed arguments that significantly improve this extremely important area. In addition, there must be plenty of room for more quality and above all rational solutions to be achieved in this debate in principle and then in the debate on the details of the amendments. In the part of the proposal for a forest law relating to the financing of this activity, our parliamentary group considers it necessary and necessary to separate and define – to establish, i.e. provide means to preserve, protect and improve the situation of existing and raise new forests through the Forest Fund. In particular, we insist that the competent ministry, as well as public enterprises and future managers of forest lords and continents, make a particular commitment to the development of professional, rational and very responsible plans and forest management programmes in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of what part of the forest they manage. The establishment of provincial forest funds for the same purpose, as well as a fund for the entire territory of Serbia, self-constitutes and specifically defines the financial obligations of public enterprises in relation to the reproduction of forests and the compensation for the use of forests, and not for their separation. This debate in principle, and later on in particular, would just have to fully define or abolish certain provisions of the law in a draft that insufficiently and not precisely define the spending and allocation of funds, which will flow from forest or forest funds. For example, Article 77(3) – forest reproduction means relate to the concept of forest maintenance, although this concept is defined by Article 8 through the meaning of the term, but not to the clear allocation of resources spent on the reproduction of forests. In addition, we need to fully clarify the new law – that all costs incurred in forest maintenance are taken as common costs in which public undertakings must include earnings, direct, dependent and investment maintenance costs. It is certain that this attitude also addresses the issue of a new continuum plan applicable to public enterprises, under which so far costs and revenues could be set aside in relation to the use, cultivation, protection of forests and others, but could not be based on the maintenance of forests. We support the law's definition that newly raised so far extends activities to the forest development strategy through the list species and the change in the plantation of the cetinarians into other forest structures. It is necessary that, in order to implement this strategy parallel to the deforestation, or the construction of new forest ingredients, a greater effort is made to overcome obstacles from the budget foreseen for the road network from these funds – the financing of extremely important forest roads. In the context of the adoption of a new law, we support the solution that the development programme in forestry is adopted for a period of 20 years, because this programme is about a strategic document of the highest importance, and with which it must be agreed by a number of structural lower documents. We believe that the law must contain an explicit provision – on the subject who draws up the development plan and it must be a user where all significant shortcomings must be eliminated because of the different interpretation of the forestry strategy. We believe that the law must ensure the conditions for forest protection operations to be carried out by professional people. The difficulties in the possible loss of work should now be addressed by employees through requalification. The working status of forest keepers in the owners and circular line of the generalisation of the State inspection body and the authorities of the users are, in our opinion, well defined by Article 46(6), while Article 44(3) creates illogicalities in the duties of the users when acting in accordance with the recommendations of the ITD Service. On the draft forest law, we have submitted a number of amendments whose adoption would significantly improve a number of definitions related to the property, organisation and principles of the work of forest users. We believe that this improved proposed legislative solutions for our parliamentary group will be acceptable. We have long expected that in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, in addition to the already large number of regulations, the area of water should be regulated in one legal act. A large number of regulations that have been defined so far have not been closer to providing a basis for uniform water management in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and in line with the principles of sustainable development, with due respect for the principles and directives adopted by the EU. The importance of water as an irreplaceable natural resource, especially in our country, deserves to be defined by declaring the strategic resource of the Republic of Serbia. If Serbia quickly and efficiently regulates the issue of water and prevents it from becoming a limiting factor in socio-economic development and builds a system that would meet all needs of the present and future generations, we are confident that it will achieve sustainable water use based on long-term protection of available resources by quantity and quality. We are reminded of Directive 2000/60 EC and others that have not missed us, and through them are the frameworks for social action in the field of policy of all water, from drink to technical, and for the purposes of all conditions in our country. Further integration of water protection and sustainable water management, along with all other water-based areas, such as energy, transport, agriculture, fisheries, tourism, etc., are possible if this law establishes a completely correct water-related relationship, a fully correct and technologically justified water-use protection system and a fully sustainable principle of water management with respect for economic aspects for the creation of conditions for the smooth implementation of all water-related activities. The basic principles that this law must respect are that water is a public good over which under legal conditions the right to use can be acquired. Water is renewable, and when water is used, all advantages should be provided in relation to resources that are not being renewed. Our country must do, even through this law, everything necessary to take and implement measures to protect the quality and quantity of drinking and other waters. Our country will also use this law, as well as other regulations that will soon be passed, to implement a series of measures to ensure that both those drinks and those technological and technical ones are evenly deployed in time and space, as well as that the waters are equally used to mitigate adverse consequences due to the irrational use of water. We advocate that water and water management planning in our country be integrated, and within all planning documents, respecting that the priority of supplying water to the population and maintaining controlled and breeding systems is most important. The draft water law respected the principles of conservation of the environment because it also respects the principles of sustainable development, the principle of integrity, the principle of water system, the principles of water safety, the principles of the principle of pay users and the principle of wage polluters, the principle of embezzlement and respect for the best available techniques in water management, as well as the principles of public participation. Our parliamentary group has submitted a significant number of amendments to this legislative proposal. First of all, in order to achieve a legal, economic and technical draft of certain solutions that would ensure, in terms of certain water acts, the uniformity of the water regime and ensure integrated water management in accordance with the strategy and water management plan at national level. We think that our amendments have significantly explained some disagreement in applying the best technical solutions, as well as in funding water management in our country. The long-term legislative framework of agricultural acts lacked a final definition of agricultural plant variety production and transport, whose productive and useful values have been examined, proven and ready to be introduced into our country's plant world. This law on the recognition of a variety of agricultural plants can enter and find only varieties of agricultural plants for which the purity of the variety has been demonstrated and which has shown good production and use value, that it is uniform and stable to preserve all its varieties and that it will give good production value. The law on the recognition of varieties, and then the Law on fruit material, were not fully in line with each other and with EU directives, without whose application we could no longer export the fruit fruit plant, nor the fruit kalem of the vine, nor the seeds of meadow plants or seeds of cereals and corn, by which we were recognizable in the world and represented a solid export brand. The draft new law proposes respect for both the VCU and the DSU tests, as well as recognition of decommissioned varieties with a clear identification of property holders and particularly the depositary of liability for decommissioned varieties with reference collections for the variety standard, for the standard sample, etc. The production and use characteristics of varieties, as well as the characteristics that have an impact on increasing production volumes and improving quality are well defined by this law. Procedures for the recognition of varieties have also been defined quite well, as well as the course of realization of requirements for the recognition of new sorates. Determination of diversity, uniformity and stability, as well as the useful and productive value of the variety are professionally and correctly covered. We believe that imports of varieties and materials imported for processing and research purposes in our country are regulated by a positive regulation, which must respect the conditions for which the area can most import seeds, i.e. fruit material from that variety. We believe that this draft law correctly regulates that the register of agricultural plant variety and the register of varieties of fruit trees, grape vines, hops and fruit-based bases, which in practice enables faster regulation of the issue of further selling material. The adoption of this law practically provides a unique and best solution which now fully defines and regulates the area of recognition of agricultural plant varieties. The PUPS Group will support this law, with the individual correction of certain amendments. The Republic of Serbia has so far had no law to regulate the area of beer production, then control the quality of beer and raw materials for beer, quality and conditions of packaging, declarations and marketing. Serbia today has ten large beer producers, which year-on-year increase their production, which out of five hundred million liters reached 705 million litres in 2009. In addition to its own production, Serbia imports about 17 million liters of beer annually. We support the ministry's intention to fully regulate this area and to regulate beer production, quality, packaging, declaration and marketing in an extremely responsible, comprehensive and highly modern manner. In particular, we advocate that this law be defined and arranged for every need of a large number of so-called. mini brewers, i.e. entrepreneurs who through this activity can employ a significant number, primarily professional and unskilled workers. The introduction of a register of all beer producers will ultimately, in a unique way, regulate the conditions for carrying out this activity, i.e. production and transport of beer and other beverages. The law must regulate a very specific and rather complicated technology that requires special conditions that the manufacturer and the technologist must meet, both in terms of equipment and equipment, and in respect of all the instructions of this production, from raw materials to packaging. Given that beer is a limited-use product, which imposes a controlled and defined storage and traffic condition, we advocate a strict determination of the conditions of storage and traffic and, in that sense, we support the law. Furthermore, our country's insistence to comply with its existing laws with the EU's adequate laws imposes an urgent and executive need to pass a law on amendments and additions to the Veterinary Act. A large set of regulations and directives governing the hygiene of food, as well as a large number of rules for the control of food and feed for animals, and strict implementation of control measures in this area oblige us to define all conditions regarding the general health status and all equivalent measures to be applied in our country and in the world to prevent the occurrence and spread of infectious animal diseases. It is a huge and extremely difficult and huge responsibility for the ministry and all veterinary services and veterinarians to carry out, in the shortest possible time, and to comply with all regulations with our practice system, so that we can quickly and uninterruptedly participate in international transport and export of animals and products on the markets of EU countries and the whole world. Our parliamentary group will support the adoption of this law, asking that all amendments that make a significant contribution to a closer and better definition of legal provisions, and in the interest of all of us. In our practice, there is a widest controversy of the professional and social public on the organic production law. There are almost no entities of the professional and social public who have not taken part in this debate, which has not been clearly identified in all organic production issues. There are undeniable facts in the Republic of Serbia that there are many unauthorized organisations for the issue of certifications and resertifications in the tasks of determining the conditions and ways to carry out organic production. It is good to finally, by adopting this law, get a legal framework for monitoring organic production, for identifying the actual possibilities and for registering the volume of organic production, through which a monitoring of the eligibility of the incentive measures would be established through insight into quantitative indicators of such production. Serbia must finally have a national laboratory and a certification centre, for full insight into the quality and quantity of organic production indicators. We support the aim of protecting the origin of domestic products, both domestic and foreign markets, as well as the creation of a new face of Serbia as a country where organic production is a very serious element of the development of agriculture and villages. We are aware of the need to revive all the actions and powers of the accreditation body of Serbia, and in accordance with our, European and international standards. The postponement of the Agency's work for 1 January 2011, and immediately after obtaining international accreditation, will certainly not give a positive impact on regulation of this matter. The deadlines are not in our jurisdiction, and we believe that there will be significantly better results in further practice after they expire. We are aware that at this point Serbia has only 224 producers on which organic production methods are applied, that the total area on which this 595 hectares apply, of which 330 hectares are organic production, and at 89 hectares are grown cultures, while there are 240 hectares of meadows and forests. During the conversion period there are currently 265 hectares, and at 1,200 hectares special methods of organic production are applied. Today in Serbia, with a million hectares, plant species are collected from natural habitats that will be returned to areas where organic production methods will apply. The MEP believes that this law will allow for the rapid development of organic products, the increase of areas under organic production, and will contribute to reducing pollution from agriculture, the preservation of water, air and land, and the preservation of natural agrobiodiversity. The development of organic production is a chance to significantly engage an educated workforce, as well as a significant improvement in the export position by increasing the area under organic production, as well as a significant increase in production per unit of production surface. The amendments to the draft of this law are a significant corrective factor in finding the best solutions in technical and technological terms. One number of amendments should be supported. In an effort to achieve optimal solutions for the organisation and effectiveness of advisory professional activities in the field of agriculture, a significant public consultation has been reached with many interested entities involved in the draft law. Through the public stands by regional rural development centres, as well as in Serbia's regional chambers of commerce, with the presence of various associations and associations of producers, and advisers and representatives of school and scientific institutions, there has been a draft law that is essential for the implementation of advisory and professional affairs in Serbia's agriculture area. Today in the Republic of Serbia, advisory jobs in the area of agriculture are carried out by only 225 advisers, and needs are much higher. Councilors' jobs were financed from the budget, which did not allow for an increase in the number of advisers. We believe this law allows for an increase in the number of advisers. The number of services they will be able to perform and introduce the right to commercial business between advisers and users of their services is increasing. This law significantly changes the role of consultants so far, which have met only part of the total needs of registered agricultural holdings. The EU Directive 1772 since 2003 obliges us to establish a comprehensive advisory system, with all very demanding conditions that advisers must have. A possibility is created for better and more efficient employment of high-speed personnel, who have to be licensed to do these jobs, who are now working mostly in private agricultural pharmacies. This law obliges a new advisory system in agriculture that must meet all producers and how to meet modern standards and set requirements regarding the quality of agricultural and agricultural food products, with the mandatory transfer of knowledge from the area of financial management of land and water, as well as the preservation of the environment. It is indisputable to support the profession and agricultural producers, as well as current advisers in agriculture with this draft law, so with a number of corrective amendments, it is proposed to support themselves in the day of the vote and this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38578	I give my word to MP Arpad Fremond.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38579	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to make suggestions from the SVM MPs on the proposed agricultural laws. These laws are very important to us and we have never been against any law proposed by the Ministry of Agriculture. However, we also have some suggestions and have submitted several amendments to the proposed laws. We all know that the crisis is under way, but we can agree that agriculture plays a key role in getting out of the crisis. Serbia is a agricultural country, and agriculture is a branch of the economy through which we can improve our country. In the past, among other things, we have various major problems in agriculture. The biggest problem is the lack of financial resources. Farmers simply have no savings to start production. We believe that agriculture deserves more attention and much more money. For us all producers are the same, and we must not distinguish between farmers. We have to subsidize agricultural production equally because it's the only way we can improve it. Of course, with this budget for 2010, for which SVM MPs have not even voted, we cannot improve our agricultural production and, unfortunately, we cannot reconcile even the basic needs of agriculture. Let us not forget the fact that with the smallest investment in agriculture we can create jobs and enable families to survive the economic crisis. We are approaching the EU, so it is very important that we strengthen our agriculture. It is important to pass European laws, but it is far from enough. Agriculture should be developed according to European standards before we join the EU. If we do not gradually develop and improve agriculture to an estimated EU standard, then we will not be ready for the competition that awaits us there. It'll be like a race of fiche and Mercedes. We have a lot of positive examples in the EU. Some countries took full advantage of the opportunity in the EU, before they entered, strengthened their agriculture, the situation in agriculture, and now, during the crisis, they had no major problems. As far as the law is concerned, the Manjin parliamentary group will support most of the laws on the agenda. We see these laws as good and necessary to bring Serbia closer to the EU. The road to the EU is still very long, but it should be headed that way. We don't have an alternative. On that road, Serbia needs to do a lot more. Of course, we need a lot of funding. It's very important to us that in these laws the Vojvodina has its meaning. This is not only important to us because we come from that region, but also because 18% of the farmland is located in Vojvodina. As for the amendment and addition of the veterinary law, we need to know that this is only about some positive changes that will facilitate the production of livestock. The agricultural plant variety law is also a significant law. We think we should preserve our varieties, unmodified. We see the future in this branch of agriculture, as well as in bioproduction. The organic production law is one of the most important laws. Our country has a future in organic food production. The Ministry of Agriculture plays a very important role in this matter. The Ministry must create such regulations, act acts and regulations that will enable the development of organic production, in the realisation and sale of that product. Respected associates, it is important that the rules you will adopt after the adoption of this law are in line with European standards. Bioproducts are highly wanted in the EU, so there is a future in this. It is also very important to small-scale bio-production holdings, as in organic production there may be a survival or a new chance of improving the state of small-scale land. This production also produces new jobs. The beer law is the same important law. We welcome the special beer law, because we think this production deserves it and it is very important. We know that Serbia is a large consumer of beer and a large exporter. Budget is a significant income. It is important that we produce quality and sufficient quantities of beer. It is also important for the forest law, because we know, unfortunately, that we stand very badly if we look at European averages on the surface of the forest. The most critical situation is in Vojvodina, where there are only 6% to 7% of the area under the woods, which is very little. And that little forest belt in Vojvodina has been ruthlessly cut over the past 15 years. The European average of forest surfaces is 47%. In Serbia, unfortunately, this is a total of 29. The woods are air cleaners. They are necessary for people, animals, have a significant role in hunting, beekeeping and, of course, tourism. It's important to plant as many seedlings as possible in as short a time as possible because we've been behind in recent years. It is important that we preserve the seedlings, not only the seedlings, but the rest of the protective belts and the woods. In this business, the Ministry of the Interior also plays a significant role, which must react not to be cut into the forest. It is important that every municipality in Vojvodina that agricultural land is intended for shaming. It is necessary to restore the seat belts because the safety belts protect products from weather problems and play an important role in agricultural production. This law will give Vojvodina significant benefits, but we also have some amendments that we want you to accept. The essence of these amendments is to establish a normative and legal link between the forest law proposal, as a basic material law, which in a comprehensive way regulates the area of forestry, and Article 183. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which prescribes that autonomous provinces, in accordance with the law, regulate matters of territorial importance in the area of forestry and in Article 18. Law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, which determines the competences of the AP Vojvodina in this area. Article 86. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is the prescribed existence of public property, which can be state property, the property of the AP and the property of the unit of local self-government. Article 2 The proposal for a forest law is prescribed that the provisions of this law apply to forests and forest land in all forms of property. The legislator did not use constitutional authority to establish, more specifically in the field of forestry, the assets of the AP in the forest area, but only established the right to manage and manage forests in state property by the competent authority of the AP - public forest management company, whose founder is the AP. By supplementing the text of the bill, we just want to remove any future property-legal disputes between the Republic of Serbia and the AP Vojvodina in the area of forestry. The Water Act is important, as long as Vojvodina has its share here. And on this law we have some amendments that are to improve this law and reduce some contributions, because we consider them too large. With these amendments, we ask that we do not regulate and charge compensation for the depletion of excess waters, because there are no such ones, as well as atmospheric or surface sewers or water supply for irrigation. In the second amendment, all we ask is that the disposal fee be reduced, i.e. not more than 400 dinars per hectare, and that every year next year it be increased by the inflation rate. We've talked about this problem on many occasions. Unfortunately, in times like this, this tax is very difficult for farmers. In the importance of irrigation and draining in Vojvodina, we all know and agree, it is the future of the survival of agriculture. It's very difficult now, in such a big crisis, to make up for what we've missed for the last 20 years. During this crisis, what has this country ever done for agriculture to facilitate agricultural producers' production? Through these amendments, we can take a good step together. We believe that the law can improve the situation and reduce contributions, which is currently very important for our agricultural producers, who simply have nothing to pay these fees from. I hope you will accept our amendments, to support and assist our farmers together, and most of all small agricultural holdings. The last law on agriculture is the law on professional and advisory services. Professional services play a very important role, not only in Serbia but also in Vojvodina. There are already some advisory services and agricultural stations in Vojvodina that we should support together. There are areas where simply these experts don't go around the field. We believe that counseling officers must be constantly on the ground and that farmers do not travel all day to the city. These services are in cities, which is not good. It is important that every municipality of our country and over the municipalities each of our local communities has at least one day a week of their agricultural advisers who are supposed to support, advice to our farmers on the ground. In current modern times, this advisory service must provide the most recent information to agricultural producers, which is inevitable in the current production. I'd like to mention here a large number of young experts who graduate from the agricultural college, unemployed, who are hardly employed in privatised agricultural goods. Their potential should certainly be exploited. We always have new regulations, regulations, various regulations that are not accessible to ordinary peasants, passwords, because the Ministry of Agriculture publishes them most online. Those who don't reach the advisory service sometimes don't even know the rules. Unfortunately, there are also unclear regulations where simply farmers don't know what to do. They should be helped when the registration is renewed, when documents concerning subsidies, premiums, etc. are submitted. Mistakes must find advisory services and correct them, because it is the only way we can improve and strengthen our agriculture. The more subsidies and premiums received, the more satisfied agricultural producers. In the case of loans, the farmer should obtain a variety of documentation in the event of a competition, and there should be experience in this. If someone doesn't have it, they simply won't be able to meet their demands. The advisory services, in our opinion, must support both the province and the municipalities. The MPs of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians will support all the laws and good attempts and actions of the Ministry of Agriculture, and we ask you to be more on the ground. We hope that these laws will contribute to the development and promotion of agriculture and create new opportunities. We know very well that the laws will not respond to all problems in agriculture. Unfortunately, we have witnessed that over the past few years a lot of agricultural producers have become a social case, which is not good for our country. We can't let that happen. We must work together to improve the situation in agricultural production and more resources and staff should be invested in agriculture. The whole government needs to understand the importance of agriculture, because Serbia has a lot of income from this area. We have a Newsad fair ahead of us. I hope there's a discount for our farmers. We're asking the government to cut VAT to buy agricultural machines 8%. Our farmers have to rebuild the machinery, they have to develop. The agriculture ministry must react sharply during budget allocations, so that the state invests as much money in agriculture as possible. We must take advantage of the chance Serbia has in agriculture. We are passing European laws, so we must also raise our agriculture Europeans in order for farmers to achieve European standards as soon as possible. We consider these laws good and beneficial for our country, for our farmers. SVM MPs support laws and will vote in favour of proposals, or the Law on Forests, if you accept our amendments, through which we only wish to remove future property and legal disputes between Serbia and the AP Vojvodina. Dear associates, we are at your disposal. We've got time. We also have a Committee on Agriculture. I'm sure we'll find a solution. I'm sure we'll find a solution together. Dear associates, advisors, SVM MPs will always be partners when it comes to developing agriculture in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38580	Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38581	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. President, the Honorable Ministers, we have a set of 14-point laws in front of us, and it's totally unacceptable to put this large number on the agenda, given that it's seven legislative proposals and seven ratifications, let's exclude ratifications, by one law today we can speak in principle, as Mr. Shami popularly says, about two minutes and 50 seconds. Mr. Minister, at the very least, that's unserious. It is unacceptable and as it is unacceptable that you are in your presentation, closely followed, spoken for 12 or 13 minutes, you have settled on below two minutes after one legal proposal. How you do it will best be assessed by the citizens of Serbia. I hope that many of these laws will make Serbian citizens feel better, but I am convinced that such legal proposals will not improve the situation in the country, will not improve the situation among those who barely survive, with a catastrophic situation. The country's households are shut down every day. Every day, we have huge gatherings. Here, today in the paper, they say pig meat will collect 5 to 10% in the next week, that the gatherings are expected to be rapid by August. I ask you as a man, as an MP, as a representative of citizens, what are you going to do to stop such things, what are you going to do to help individual producers in terms of the constant purchases of petroleum products, because every product that with the torment of people achieves by selling, possibly a device, possibly stressing, makes some difference in price, until some charge eats all the oil collection? Last year we had a practically priced oil from 60 to 65 dinars, today it's already 105, 110, 115 dinars. Now we're passing some cosmetic laws, we're racing over time, we're racing under the pretext we have to pass laws to be accepted by the European Union. Mr Minister, no MP, I am sure, in this assembly, no citizen has anything against the European Union, we all want to join that European Union, but in one dignified way, fully raised heads, because we have to pass the laws that will be applicable, not only to you, but to the mass of the law passed in this National Assembly in the last year, the laws have been manufactured. I'll just take a minute, and I'll be back on the subject. We have huge problems in the judiciary today, and we said that we reformed the judiciary, that we chose judges, that it would be more effective and better, and I will be responsible to tell you that in the King today in the primary court are scheduled cases from February to July. So much for that. Of course, the other laws that are passed when it comes to entry into the agenda are delayed, we constantly gather something here and we say, we have to postpone application, once, twice, three times. I'd be really happy not to have it here today, but I'll immediately notice one thing in article 119 when we talk about the forest law, that you'll be obliged to bring sublaws within two years. Mr. Minister, two years. For two years, this government will last the longest. What are we talking about? Couldn't you at least think about that part and say it for at least a year? The question arises – what will you do for two years on the adoption of sublegal acts, and how will these laws, even if they are the best, apply if you have one of these? Of course, as always, the NS will try to discuss in principle and in particular with the amendments submitted to try to fix something in these legal proposals. We expect you to accept some of the amendments we have submitted. Do not accept just what may be a technical character, but accept something that is essential, because we have always tried to, as far as possible, submit amendments not numerically, to keep any time, but what is good and what will be useful for the citizens of Serbia. Mr. Minister, before I go individually on the laws, do you have any concerns about the situation in Leskovac, yesterday we read in the paper that a man who made money abroad with a hard time and invested in a cow farm explicitly said that he was selling everything, that he was leaving because of the price of milk that is 18 dinars, and that he was in the sale of two or three times the price of milk? A man says nicely I would sell milk for 18 dinars if Serbian citizens drank it for 25 dinars. However, there are various manipulations. It creates an atmosphere to completely destroy individual producers in the countryside. It's a clear story of this imports of powdered milk, that it's some kind of strategic policy of some powerful and tycoon, but are we going to think about an individual producer, not only those who produce and have a chance for farms, but individual producers who have five or six cows in rural rural areas, and some are struggling there to get some income? That's where everything is halved. Why? Why, Mr. Minister? Because the price of buying milk is 18 dinars. They don't accept that. They're probably going into some dairy production, cheese and stuff, and then, Mr. Minister, they don't have anyone to place it on, because last year we saw that in the villages of Golia, Kopalnika, the Ruin people had a problem throwing and where to put off the cheese products. Mr. Milosavljevic, in a discussion last year, reminded me of this situation, and he firmly promised that in agreement with you he would find an opportunity to help these people, because it is the only way to do something. We invite some people to go back to the country, and where to go? How do they get back? Therefore, the situation is not good at all. I remind you once again, today's public information means that it collects pork five to ten percent. I ask you, Mr. Minister, do you know how many children in Serbia can't see meat in a plate once a week, even in ten days? It's a disgrace and a shame for Serbia. Brooke and the shame especially in the most natural year that was in this country last year, that we treat the village and the citizens of Serbia in this way. It's a waste of time for us to say here today that we're making 94 laws, today in particular 14. That doesn't interest the citizens of Serbia at all. Serbian citizens want to live better. They want to have some security when they start some summer season that this price that's in May and June waits to wait for them in September, that they know exactly what the difference is. The constant increase in the price of oil eats it all and people get to zero or minus, and then they have to sell it to survive, because they go into deep minuses. I'm sure you'll agree with this. I'd like to ask you how much you're able to do in that direction. Today, you're talking about some subsidies when it comes to goats, oatmeal. It's such a small amount. It's all marketing. Nothing really happens in Serbia. A Serb peasant is systematically destroyed. That's the problem. I think you'll appreciate these remarks. I've already started something with the forest law. The big problem with this law is: first of all, private forest owners need to be leveled with the rights and obligations of the state forest. Even these forests should be seen as a priority in terms of promotion and protection. It's a problem of a decapitated estate, nursing homes, unresolved legal and property relations. I will tell you that the country that has already entered the EU, Slovenia, has no such problem and it has fully leveled the situation. So private property is the law. Private property must be respected. Private property has no reason to separate itself from social property. These are some inherited principles that don't lead to anything. When we talk about associations, we need to have a coherent attitude towards associations and NGOs in the sector. There are a whole range of associations and NGOs, such as hunting societies, associations dealing with the protection of forest products, organic food production, possibly in the future the association of carriers, workers on the cutting and extraction of wood varieties, associations for medicinal plants, etc. The favoration of only one type can be counterproductive. The proposal is that owners, as I said, organize private forests in forest cooperatives. Forest cooperatives, economic organisations of individuals who are guaranteed by members with their stakes in one or more or all of their property for cooperative obligations. The cooperative itself does its work through the Assembly of Cooperatives, the Governing Board, and the Supervisory Board. This is practically a paraphrased part of the 1930 Law on the Forests of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. There is no reason, in many European countries the laws apply to 50, 60 and 70 years. If there's anything good, accept it. Surely there is room for such things that are good in some continuity to get away with and accept it, for it is certain that it is a good moduso, it is certain that there were people in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia who thought well about how to regulate the law. In the case of deforestation, Mr. Minister, with permission and in the legal frameworks, it is always the principle that if the forest is not decommissioned within the planned time limit that a permit for breach and change of purpose of the surface must be re-demanded. Reduce the ability to manipulate or convert forest land from forest to construction is extremely important for national parks and forest protection. When we talk about wild game in the woods, the first thing it gets in the eye is that you should have passed the forest law, then the hunting law. You did one counter, we did it 15 or 20 days ago when we brought it in. Here's a reason. A legal person entrusted with the management of game, in accordance with the regulation governing game and hunting, is obliged to maintain the numbers and species of game at such a level as not to disrupt the biological balance of forest ecosystems and not to prevent the implementation of forest management objectives. The hunting planning documents must comply with the development plan, the basics and the programmes. The intensive cultivation of large-scale game in fenced areas and forests is prohibited, in which the reconstruction process is under way, i.e. rejuvenation. When we talk about criminal policy, it is certain that New Serbia insists that a certain distance in the event of a fire, we have also submitted amendments to that, then the construction of the dump, the cumulation, etc., move to a greater distance of 200 metres, because the safety of the fire is extremely important, to prevent fires that can in one day destroy a large property, a large area and cause major damage. Since it's very difficult to say in two minutes and 50 seconds law, I'm going to refer to the amendment and addition of the Veterinary Act. Namely, the debate on the draft amendments to the Veterinary Law was held on 22 December 2009 in the organisation of Serbia's Veterinary Chamber at the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine in Belgrade. After public debates held on regional committees, representatives of regional committees, the board of directors, representatives of the ministry participated in the final debate, just a few so-called so-called representatives. experts with a large number of proposals. Of course, only some were adopted, which is a basic criticism. I'll tell you at the end of my presentation that when one legislative proposal changes, and this is the case, in 30 members of the existing Veterinary Act, I think it should have been written, Mr. Minister, a new law. This is how the whole of the law is broken, allowing other professions to take away some of the jobs that have been in the veterinary service so far. The proposal only mentions the proposal for a measure, and nowhere is the basic task of veterinary services, prevention of occurrence, detection, suppression, eradication of infectious animal diseases. The law should be applicable in practice, that it has an effect, a goal and a fact that it is applicable. What's the point of specializing in carnivorous examinations? All of the penalties that are collected should be given to improve and equip these services. Why aren't they competing for the assignment of territories the institutes work on? Amendments and additions do not comply with criminal provisions, lack accuracy and consistency. Mr. Minister, in a situation like this, this is the comment of an expert man, I'm not going to say his name this time. When you have a remark like this, you need to think about and withdraw this law, to further improve it, to hold certain public debates again, and all this is practical in order to preserve services that are extremely good. We have in Serbia two science institutes for veterinary, Belgrade and Novi Sad, and 10 specialist institutes. I'm afraid that some of the proposals that are being implemented in this law, that even here, the centralization of some institutes, that some institutes that are extremely correct, which are extremely good, that are even fastest in some situations when responding to some infectious diseases, you want to lower them a little bit. Why? Probably because it's not really institutions from Belgrade, it's some institutes that have great reputation and have great results in their work. I would like to point out once again, Mr. Minister, it is incorrect that for this number of legal proposals, you have only been exposed for 12 minutes. Do you see how interested you have been in the MPs in the National Assembly? At 11 o'clock, the hall is half empty, or empty. Don't ever look for a bad atmosphere of guilt only from the MPs, but also from you. Mr. Minister, at the end of my presentation, approach the mountain-mounted areas. Look how hard people live, what they do with their products. Take a look at this situation in Leskovec, etc. Do something you do. Don't, as it stands in the means of public information, that some of your business is done by the President of the Republic who wanted to talk to that man about the problem in four eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38582	The word is made by Minister Sasha Dragin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38583	I thank the honourable MP for his very comprehensive presentation. I'd like to introduce him to a few facts about what he mentioned in his presentation. First of all, I would like to say that imports without duty of powdered milk were approved a few years ago on the initiative of the Minister of Trade, Mr. Bubal at the time, when you were also in the government as a coalition partner. After that, a few more times the importer submitted a request. The agriculture ministry has not given a positive opinion on such a request for one single time, and I am particularly against it. The other thing that is very important to mention is that the Ministry of Agriculture is absolutely not satisfied with the price of milk. Also, what needs to be known is that at this point, the Ministry of Agriculture has already made several requests for a monopoly survey on the market – is there a monopoly when buying milk from agricultural producers? As you probably know, the state cannot affect the prices of agricultural products, no country in the world can affect. They could have been countries that were in socialism, during the existence of the Eastern bloc. All agricultural prices are freely formed on the world market. What the state is doing is making an effort within the appropriate time limit to pay all subsidies to agricultural producers. The Serbian state received a 25% higher agricultural budget this year than last year. I don't think that's enough, because the agricultural budget should be much bigger, but as I suppose you've met – each to the last dinar of that budget exclusively goes to registered agricultural holdings, means natural persons who are exclusively engaged in agricultural production, i.e. farmers, farmers, paors, or whatever part of our country they're in. As far as the different parts of our country are concerned, I can tell you that there are different criteria. All marginal municipalities in Serbia have far lighter criteria in obtaining incentives and thus the Ministry of Agriculture helps these municipalities. These are, if I may say, the majority of municipalities located in the east and south of Serbia and which represent the most underdeveloped municipalities. As for KIM, we really have an even lighter criterion here, because these people are very valuable to us. Already, the fact that in the circumstances in which they live in agriculture should be an example for all – how much the Serbian host can be sacrificed in the business he deals with. It is also mentioned in your presentation, and it is related to the production of shadow cheese, you probably thought that, you would probably know that you have read the means of public information or that you have addressed the parliamentary issue of the Ministry of Agriculture – that the problem has been resolved within about a month after the outbreak. Although this was not in our jurisdiction, to solve it directly, we hired people from the Veterinary Authority and they solved the whole problem in record time, helped people to start producing the cheese and providing, in certain hygiene conditions, through an agreement between the Montenegrin and Serbian sides in the veterinary field, to keep that cheese from being found on that side of the state border, because it was their biggest natural market. Of course we're all familiar with the difficulties in agriculture, but I can also tell you that everyone knows, probably the sparrows on the branches, even though our budget isn't great, that until the last dinar from our budget goes exclusively to individual agricultural holdings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38584	Right on the replica, MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38585	Mr. Minister, first of all, I disagree with you in the basic concept – to say from the executive authorities that the state cannot help is to a mild extent catastrophic. You said at one point - that the state couldn't help or slip away, but look at the stenogram. So, Mr. Minister, how will the state and when, since I haven't been able to expose myself to water for one situation, that is, will you also say that the state will react – Western Morava all spring and last fall are causing huge problems for rural areas right in my area, between the King and Chačka? The village of Katrga, the Eyebrows, practically the country's hectares are leaving because of the stream of the river. How are you going to help here? Why do you need people to crew up? The data, as Mr. Masic said, and I have it, is that 150 thousand hectares of wheat in Serbia are less sown this year. So these are essential things. We've seen, no matter what it was with severe torment, with great strikes, etc., that the Wood combination in Kursumlia somehow started. Mr. Minister, do something to get the Buddha started to run those companies, the Serbian Valjevo and the like, and help those that are already working. You say you don't have any effect on the ransom. Try to buy – apples, plums and everything that has fallen to people in the most natural year or the price has been below each level, of three dinars. So it's the state that has to find solutions to react in a situation where these products, which are extremely difficult, practically with the pain of being produced, don't fail, because farmers and those producers have no interest in paying for the workforce, to pay for the packaging that is needed for all of it, because it's multiplely exceeded, practically, what can be earned. It is not true that the problem with shadow cheese, Mr. Minister, is solved. In part, something was resolved because it was extremely below any price that shadow cheese and people were giving it a wake-up call, only that they didn't have to have the costs to throw it away, and at the beginning of the season a large amount was thrown away. They're nursing homes that didn't have a chance. At that point, I also asked that the state at least help, that these people don't have to, because they don't have the ability and the power to take it with their energy to a certain distance to throw it away, etc., so as not to pollute the environment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38586	The word is made by Minister Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38587	Dear People's Messenger, just for your information, since you're already discussing these topics - "The Buddha" is working. We started production at the Budimki a year ago. At this point, there are 70 people working three shifts and processing 150 tons of apples a day. I don't know how you don't know that, but it's already information that's been there for a year. So I don't know who prepared your material, because it probably didn't prepare you well or it's old material. As for the construction of a embankment on West Morava, I assume you know it was within the jurisdiction of capital investments. I don't understand why you're asking me now. It is that it is a water business, but it is an unguarded part of West Morava and the Ministry of Agriculture, and you probably know that by law we are responsible for those parts of the water streams that represent the defences of the water supply. I'm not sure if we should continue in that direction of our discussion. We'll be happy to help all farmers. Last year, and probably if you were there, we'd see each other, because I was present at the flood defense, I was carrying bags, I didn't see you there. As for some other problems that were in the water industry, ask the citizens of Jasa Tomic, three years ago, who was there the whole time of the flood, while I was still working at the Regional Ministry of Agriculture. Ask people when there was great water on the Danube and on Tisa where we were. Ask those people who, during the high water stop on Tisa, brought it to Moshorein two badgers to help defend against the flood, one of whom didn't have a liter of diesel fuel in it, and the other one didn't work, was broken, unloaded it right in the middle of the road where military trucks with sandbags were passing, photographed with the media, said that all of it would be solved, in five minutes went away, and then we arranged for those two broken bogeys to get out of the way so people could do their job. Please don't tell me about the floods. I think it's very, very rude of you, because I've spent a very large number of days on flood protection. Unfortunately, that's what's going on, and I'm afraid we're going to have a lot of trouble with climate change. For this reason, there are two new laws that are related to both forests and water, because both laws will contribute, if nothing else, at the local level, to solve problems in the water industry in a better way.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38588	The People's MP Srdjan Spasojevic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38589	Mr. Minister, you're trying and trying to provoke me, no way. You've mixed up jurisdiction. I wasn't talking about floods here. I was just talking about fixing river streams. So it's the jurisdiction of the Serbian. Not just you, any of you, when you're not able to manage in some matter, you immediately bind that jurisdiction of capital investment. You know, it's completely out of line and you've simply replaced the thesis here. I'll tell you correctly - the authority for this situation is "Serbia" and it sucks that you and I are now having this controversy because those people I addressed to in the village of Katrga listen to us, where their grandfather goes without going back. You know, Mr. Minister, that's the problem. Are you going to outwit me in a discussion or am I going to outwit you, that's less important. I'm talking about a fundamental problem, which is there and I'm asking you a question – what exactly are you going to do, without any policy, on my part and on your part? So, what exactly are you going to do about the situation I've given you? That's your jurisdiction, I repeat once again, the jurisdiction of the "Serbian". Don't tell me again whether you were on a cliff or not, Mr. Minister, we know that you were in some kind of trouble and dusting mosquitoes, so nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38590	The word has been given by MP Zoran Bortic, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38591	The President-in-Office, respected presidency, respected ministers, respected government representatives, respected fellow MPs, a set of laws we are discussing today regulates one of the most important areas in Serbia as a state and in the lives of its citizens. It is known to all of us that Serbia's most important resources, along with its human potential, are resources that include its natural resources and that serve to produce food. The potentials that our country has in this area are significant not only in national but, I would say, in both European and world contexts. Among these resources are water potentials, agricultural land and forest treasure. These potentials, if put in place in the right way, will ensure Serbia's rapid progress, a better life for its citizens, as well as its competitiveness on the world market. In the EU accession process, which our country has defined in the previous elections, all our European partners have unequivocally made it clear that our greatest chance of gaining a level playing field in a competitive and demanding European market is a profitable and organised development of our agriculture and a function of its almost inexhaustible potential. Unfortunately, if it is to judge by the current state in which our agriculture and the village are present today, it could be said that in this priority area, we have at least done it on approach and that we have not carefully taken the advice of our European partners. In order not to be a member of the ruling majority or to glorifice the moves that the Government, whose part we are, draws, but not even to demagoguely attack these moves, I am obliged by my own conscience, but also by the thousands of peasants of the Sword from which I come, to point to the reality in which our agriculture is today, and I can say without exaggeration that when the situation in the farm in Machva is bad, that it is certainly worse in other parts of Serbia, where agricultural land is of lower quality and in which other natural resources are weaker. The situation in agriculture today is much harder than in recent years, and it's almost alarming. The season of spring sowing and price parameters established in the field of sowing work completely exceeds the material opportunities of agricultural producers to process their land in time and quality. Ask any peasants what his bill is, how much it costs to process a hectare of land and how safe it is to place its products. Unfortunately, by opening up the market for agricultural products, in a situation where we haven't systematically organised our agriculture and made it functionally competitive, we have come into a situation where in our markets we sell beans of dubious quality from distant countries, at lower prices than our farmer is able to sell it. If I wasn't talking about the generally known fact that our stock fund is on the verge of permanent extinction because it's uncontrollable and, I would say, without any criteria, imports of meat that are significantly lower in quality, but unfortunately lower than the price offered by our producers. Only these two examples drastically warn us about the fact that the situation in our agriculture is serious and difficult and that we need to find ways to help our agricultural producers become competitive by system measures and thus place our surpluses in food production on a selective European and world market and contribute to Serbia's general development as a state. That is why we need these laws and I believe that the current Government of the Republic of Serbia has found the right moment by proposing this set of laws to systematically resolve this area and to standardise the situation in it, in accordance with international agreements that are supposed to be our integration into the world economy on an equal footing. Dear fellow MPs, the law on forests, whose proposal the Government of the Republic of Serbia sent to the Assembly for today's debate, seeks to regulate the changes made in the Republic of Serbia by the new Constitution and constitutional order. As is known, the new Constitution abolished social property as a form of property, requiring a different concept of forest treasure management as one of the most significant natural resources each state seeks to have. Therefore, this law had to respect the general public and national interest in the forest to this extent, to which sustainable management and sustainable forest development were ensured, as this is a widely accepted basic principle in the world. By establishing public interest, this law in an acceptable way restricts the rights of owners in the use and maintenance of forest resources, in order to ensure the permanent insistence and maintenance of forests. It could be said that it's not about limiting the right to use, but that it's about the measures that provide for the constant restoration of this precious resource. In addition to the above reasons for the adoption of this law, which imposes a new constitutional order, it should also be pointed out that today's forest treasure in Serbia is in such a bad condition, which is why it is necessary to create legal assumptions for its essential better protection and improvement and at the same time for the multi-functional use and evaluation of numerous forest functions, which unfortunately have been diminished in our country for many years. How worrying the state of forest resources in our country is that the total area under the forests in Serbia today is only 29.1%) of its territory. Compared to the 47% forest area covered by EU territory, our country is in a very unfavourable position, thus drawing 41% of the noise from the space plan of the Republic of Serbia. In addition to the particularly unsatisfactory deforestation of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, it is almost alarming data showing the quality structure of the forest treasure. Of the total area under the forests, only 27.5% are the quality forests of seed origin, and even 64.7% are the unskilled forests of published origin, etc. Pancakes and low forests. Of all the forests in Serbia, intensive forest plantings occupy only 7.8%. Diluted forests account for as much as 27% of forest surfaces, and 2.4% are completely devastated forests. All of this represents a very unfavourable fact that even with 30% of the forest potential, forest treasure is used 30% less than possible. The forest fund is productively unfavourable. The age structure of the forest is unfavourable, unsatisfactory and foresting, and it is also an unfavourable and complex state because it is a high participation of the components of the interrupted assembly and the hardening of the surface. It is also an unsatisfactory state of forest potential. It should point to the ownership structure as a factor affecting the sustainability and renewableness of forest resources, as 53% of these resources are state-owned and 47% private-owned. All these parameters impose the need for a new law to standardise the general basics of forest management and management, to remove incompleteities and inaccuracies and overcoming the current regulations in this area, to ensure more rational rules, and most importantly, to ensure effective application of the law. In this regard, this law creates material, financial, human and institutional assumptions for the application of policies set out in the document The Strategy for the Development of Forestry of the Republic of Serbia. The water potential in the land is the most significant natural resource that Serbia has as a state. It is therefore perfectly understandable that the area of water in Serbia's legal system is governed by a large number of regulations. However, these rules do not provide room for integrated water management in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, in line with the principles of sustainable development, and respecting the principles adopted in the EU. Also, existing regulations do not contain a modern attitude towards the environment and lead as its element and do not comply with EU legislation, for which Serbia's membership has been defined by its current policy. That is why it is necessary to pass a law on water, which we are discussing today. This law creates conditions for water management in a way that achieves their good status, and man's water needs meet, with respect for the restrictions that put the conservation of balance in nature. The proposed law respects international practice, a tendency in the area of water use and protection, as well as protection against their harmful fact. This law also creates conditions for democratic decision-making and public inclusion in all stages of water functioning and development. The evaluation of this resource is being introduced and gives greater importance to the scientific and professional and information potentials that our society has at its disposal. The law introduces and implements the 'payer' and 'payer polluter' principles, thus providing funds from all users and polluters of this resource, thus creating material preconditions for the use and sustainability of water potential in accordance with European standards. The law on the recognition of agricultural plant variety, whose proposal we are considering today, regulates the conditions and procedures for the recognition of agricultural herbs, the registration of agricultural plant varieties in the register of agricultural plant varieties, as well as the maintenance of these varieties. This law is proposed because of the importance of regulating the area of recognition of domestic newly created and approved and placed in the production of foreign varieties of agricultural plants. They provide that only varieties of agricultural plant whose productive and useful values have been examined can be found after entering the register of varieties in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Only those for which the examination has been established to have an approved use and a good production value can be obtained by the user of the variety. The rules so far have regulated different areas of transport and production of agricultural plants, so problems have arisen during their application, as these rules have not been harmonised. At the same time, these rules are not in line with EU law. This is why the proposed law is a normative solution that will define the area in public and bring it into line with EU directives, which regulate the area of recognition of agricultural plant varieties. Although the tradition of the brewery industry in Serbia is very long and beer is a very widespread consumer product among the Serbian population, it is indicative that so far there has been no law in Serbia that regulates the area of beer production, control of the quality of raw materials used in this production as well as packaging, declaration and placing on the market. Starting from the fact that, by volume of production and transport, beer on our market is even with mineral waters and refreshing non-alcoholic beverages, and that this drink is consumed throughout the year, the need for this area to be regulated legally in accordance with modern standards and applicable rules in the international community is unequivocally imposed. It should be pointed out that there are ten large beer producers in Serbia whose production is on a steady rise and that in 2008, they produced 650 million liters of this drink. In addition to this quantity, Serbia's market absorbs about 16.5m litres of foreign beer annually. So far, sublaws have partially controlled the quality of beer as finished products, its packaging and the declaration of only one raw material used in production. As a result, the need for the beer law to be precise and comprehensively defined the conditions of beer production and transport, with a basic goal for consumers in the Republic of Serbia to get a quality product that will be an adequate declaration. In order to align the area of hygiene of food of animal origin and food for animals, as well as the area of international transport of animals and products of animal origin, EU regulations have imposed the need for the Republic of Serbia to comply with its existing veterinary law with the EU's latest regulations. By introducing the same normative system in this area, the Republic of Serbia will be allowed to participate in international transport and export of animals and products of animal origin to the EU market. That is why it is necessary for the proposed amendments to the veterinary law through the debate to shed light on the more versatile and thus contribute, that the law comprehensively and qualitatively norms this extremely important area, not only for every citizen of Serbia but also for Serbia's economic prosperity as a state. In order to personally contribute to better normative solutions in this law, as an MP for the SPS-JS parliamentary group, I have submitted amendments to some proposed legislative solutions, which I will talk about when the amendments are debated. Starting from the knowledge found that pesticides are extremely harmful and mineral fertilisers can also contain radioactive components, and that all of this directly affects the food in which these products were produced, can be fatal to human health, in developed countries of the modern world for several decades it has been searching for solutions that will provide high production organic production without the use of synthetic and other artificial products. Today, in the modern world, the quality of food is also measured on its impact on human health, and the consumption of organically produced foods is considered to be a higher level of living standards. The Republic of Serbia has one exceptional comparative advantage compared to the highly developed countries of the modern world, and above all to the EU countries, because its land is compared to the land of these countries of better quality. It is particularly important that Serbia's land is not polluted with heavy metals and organic pollutants. Over 80% of her land is unpolluted. Serbia also has significant areas of land that are not exploited on which, without major additional investments, it is possible to provide highly profitable organic production. For the development of such production, all areas covered by protected natural resources may also be used, allowing agricultural production. Starting from those facts, which unequivocally indicate that organic production is a major export chance for Serbia, as well as from the fact that all standards in this production must be irrepromising to EU legislation and standards, an unambiguous need has been imposed to regulate organic food production normally according to the highest standards by means of a legal solution. In this respect, the proposed law regulates this area of organic production. The proposal for a law on the performance of advisory and professional activities in the field of agriculture regulates the performance of these tasks in the Republic of Serbia, the register of agricultural advisers, training and training of agricultural advisers and agricultural producers, the planning of the development of advisory businesses in agriculture, as well as other issues of importance for the professional development of agriculture. By proposing this law, agriculture counseling is given a significant place in rural development. The agricultural consultant is becoming recognizable on the market, and the possibility of profiling the necessary consultants through the programme of additional education and education of existing staff in this area is being opened. In this way, commercialisation of production and placement will be ensured, and manufacturers will focus on more rational access to this activity, above all on the creation of branch associations of producers. This will create preconditions for better and more efficient food production and create awareness in rural areas that the population in them is engaged in additional and complementary activities, all of which will contribute to better living conditions in the country. By passing this law, Serbia will respect the EU directive, under which all member states are obliged to establish a comprehensive advisory system in agriculture and to determine the conditions that will define what advisory jobs are, who is an adviser in agriculture and under what conditions it can carry out these tasks. Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the proposals for a law on the validation of bilateral agreements in the area of agriculture between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of India, the State of Israel, the Islamic Republic of Iran and the Federative Republic of Brazil, as well as the proposals for a law on the validation of the European Convention on the Protection of spines, the Convention on the Protection of Pets and the Convention on the Protection and Use of Cross-border Waterways and International Lakes, the Republic of Serbia opens significant legal prospects for co-operation with the countries of the signatories in the areas in which those contracts are signed. At the same time, conditions are being created for dynamic economic co-operation, for the faster placement of our products on the market of these countries, and criteria and principles are being standardised in the production and protection of resources in this area. By ratification of the aforementioned conventions, the Republic of Serbia meets the mentioned standards in approaching the EU, which is the political goal of the ruling majority, has grown out of the citizens' will in the past elections. Starting with all that I have pointed out in this presentation, I believe that this set of laws is very necessary and that is why the SPS-JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support these laws and vote for them.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38592	The word is from MP Zoran Masic, authorised representative of the parliamentary group, Forward Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38593	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, co-workers at the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, just as Mr. Bortic said, I also encourage the Brethren of the Sword and all that he said about the state of agriculture in Machva, and also Serbia, I absolutely support and thus confirm that in the area of agriculture and position and opposition they should have identical vision because for this country, one of the most significant economic resources was in the past, it is also in the present and will be safe in the future. That is why it is incomprehensible for me that in situations and situations where agriculture can be debated in this home, and that is the period when the budget of the Republic of Serbia is adopted and when the laws are discussed, it does not seem. I want to publicly commend the minister and his associates that a huge effort has been made in the term of this ministry, that somewhere around 21-22 laws that have been passed, or significant changes, which in these past 10 years of what you in power call democratic changes have not been done by any previous ministry. So it is incomprehensible that on such occasions, when we talk about laws that regulate such a significant economic area, we talk in a united debate, with very little time available to touch all the laws, and I think that our public, and above all, agricultural producers of every law that is passed in the field of agriculture, expect to improve that production, bring them something good. It is simply that through this kind of debate absolutely there is no possibility that even in the smallest details of the public, agricultural producers are precisely finding out what the essence of these laws that we are discussing today and that will be brought to parliament in a week or two days. I think that such a practice should be interrupted because some other areas in this Parliament have much more time at their disposal because they change the laws more often, they pass them, and after a few months, they are re-proposed to change and there are some far less important areas for this country than agriculture. I certainly don't blame the Minister and his associates for this being proposed, I blame the government, the Prime Minister and those who have decided, and the leadership of the National Assembly, because if there were any hearing, it wouldn't be like this to organise today's debate and it wouldn't lead us into a situation that we simply can't say the essential thing about individual laws for two or three minutes. I'm undermining again, the only chance this country has of talking about agriculture is to discuss the laws in the area of agriculture. At the time, we proposed, when the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development was passed, that the strategy for the development of agriculture and the national programme should be adopted by this Parliament, where there would be much broader debate on these significant strategic documents. Unfortunately, then the legislator, and the Ministry, but also the Government did not accept, and the rest is that these significant strategic documents that we do not have in this country as new and innovative documents, are in force the 2005 strategy of agricultural development, it has been significantly overcome, I think we will all agree, especially you in the Ministry, and in the end, you have also received the obligation to adopt the Agricultural and Rural Development Act, that by June, you will bring a strategy of agriculture and rural development and a national programme. I'd like to hear how far it's come with that and whether it's going to be respected. Unfortunately, in the area of agriculture as well as in many other social areas, laws are not strictly respected and not applied in the right sense, nor have some laws in the area of agriculture, with the expectation that they will give much better results and much more help to agricultural producers, have not, at least so far, been implemented in the right sense and have not yielded the results they expected. First of all, here I think of the Agriculture and Rural Development Act, then the Law on Public Agricultural Storages and other laws that we have passed, which have not yet made that contribution and the result they should give. What is important at the very end of our agriculture and what is necessary by the state to do, that is to absolutely provide greater resources in terms of incentives and production, above all subsidisation. Unfortunately, neither in that segment, in the phase of the adoption of the Serbian budget, was the demands of agricultural producers nor the demands of the professional and scientific public nor the proposals of the MPs. The budget is as it is. You in the Ministry are constantly exploiting that it's increased by about 20%, 25%. It can also be accepted that the part relating to subsidies has been increased, but the total nominal agrarian budget is lower in 2010 than in 2009. In particular, there is less participation of the agrarian budget in the total budget in 2010 than in some previous years. This must be corrected because only larger incentives to our agricultural producers can maintain, revitalise and improve this production. Otherwise, there will be serious problems. If the masculine peasants were ready to protest a month or two ago, they had already had one mass gathering, with requests to come to Belgrade for a problem with the ransom price of pig meat, what can be expected in summer, when wheat harvest comes or in the fall, when corn harvest comes. Because we don't even know what years will be, what climate and other factors will affect, above all, plant production, and especially what price can be expected from these primary agricultural products. Because in this country there is still a very unstable market for agricultural products, there are still certain monopolies, primarily from processors, in various segments of the processing industry. We still have insufficiently organised associations of agricultural producers that do not rightly defend their interests as primary producers etc. These are all issues and issues that need to be addressed in order to create the satisfaction of agricultural producers and to improve agricultural production. I may have had a great introduction to all of this that I have to say today as an authorised representative. My colleagues will speak specifically of individual laws, so that I would not deal more widely with individual laws. Maybe I'll talk about something broader about some laws, and here, first of all, I'm thinking about the water law, and again only in the sense of informing our public about what is the situation and what are the problems with water as the living needs of every resident of the globe, but also of a significant resource. As long as you allow me, I'll possibly say something else about some other bill proposals. So water is the foundation of life and the basic ingredient of every living thing. The needs for adult water range from 2.5 to 3 liters a day. So for biological survival in terms of functioning of all life functions, it takes that amount of up to three liters of water. Water either triggers development or restricts the progress of every community, from family to civilization. The number of inhabitants on our planet is increasing rapidly, water needs are increasing even faster, and its volume is not changing. By 2025, two thirds of mankind would feel a serious water shortage. Experts say that about 1.1 billion people do not have access to drinking water, that two and a half billion have no essential sanitary conditions provided, and more than five million people die annually from water pollution diseases. It warns of the possibility that in the middle of this century, as many as seven billion people face a lack of water, unless urgent measures are taken. It is the largest study on the quantities of drinking water the world has ever had, and it is a UN study. The UN forecasts are quite dark – 6,000 children under the age of five each day die from water pollution disease. It is further noted that the amount of water people will have will be less than a third. Healthy and resourceful waters will be less and less every day, so it is no wonder that many believe that the 20th century has been marked by wars for oil, and that the 21st century will be marked by wars of water. What is the situation in the Republic of Serbia? For a long time, there has been a delusion that Serbia is rich in water resources and that water cannot be a limiting factor in development. However, the natural conditions that determine the water regime in Serbia's territory are quite unfavourable. Over 92% of all waters have transitable character and come from other areas, while only 8% form on their own territory. Their own waters have at least where the demands are greatest, and the water generally has little at a time when needs are greatest. Water quality has deteriorated significantly in man's work, so a large number of water streams in Serbia do not meet the criteria for water use. The population coverage of water supply systems is below the European average, and the population is connected to public water pipelines, even in larger cities, there is no stable and reliable supply of water, so restrictions are often present. The sources of water supply are groundwater, sources, accumulation, river flows are not sufficiently protected from pollution. Wastewater treatment devices generally do not work in the few cities in which they were built. The same is true of industrial waste water. The construction of certain water-supply accumulations did not follow the appropriate anti-erosive protection measures in the plum, so they are intensely filled with application and resulting in degradation of water quality. Large areas of agricultural land in Vojvodina are threatened by internal waters and cannot be used intensively without the application of the disposal measures. Ineffectiveness in the operation of existing disposal systems is the result of inadequate channel maintenance, drainage systems and pumping stations. A particular problem arises in canals that are also used for irrigation in addition to draining. Negative phenomena are reflected in secondary soiling, resulting in the loss of fertile agricultural areas. The need for integrated management of water resources has been neglected and is completely lagging behind. There is no built consistent hierarchical structure and interconnection between administrative and professional institutions, beginning from municipalities to republic, which are systematically dealing with the problem of regulation, use and water protection. In the area of water industry, there are very serious problems that need to be solved, started with observation and measurement of water regimes, then, information, management, all aspects related to water regulation, protection and use. These data I have provided are from the Ministry of Science site and signed by Professor Milorad Milorad, director of the National Programme for Water Protection and Water Use in Serbia. Certainly, in many other documents, in the extreme and means of information, such and similar information can be heard about the state of water and water streams in our country, so that some means of information has revealed that from 463 settlements in Vojvodina only 44 have some sort of wastewater treatment system. Most municipalities have a problem with waste water from rural areas that have not built a sewer network. In rural villages, the big problem is septic pits. In the middle and northern part of Banata, the problem of "yellow water" from deeper layers is expressed. Only 25% of the people of Banat drink the right water. About 20% of the people of Bačka drink the right water. This is certainly the data that should concern those who care about the state of water and water streams in our country, even though we already had the Water Act. The new law certainly removes everything that has led to this state and these findings, and I hope that, in a very different way, it will be removed in a very different way, by way of a much better bossage and a relationship to water and waterways, that both these and future generations in our country will have sound drinking water, because, as it could be heard, it will be a strategic resource in the 21st century. What else I would like to touch is briefly related to the forest law and absolutely what is highlighted as a projection in terms of investing in the increase in forest goods, if I may say so, is acceptable, only my question to the promoters - where will the necessary funds planned for the next 10 years of 169m euros be provided, if an estimated 11m euros has been invested annually, and have been estimated to achieve a degree of deforestation of around 40-41% in order to achieve around 44m euros annually in relation to the situation and the country's relationship to the agrarian budget? Where do you think these funds will be provided, or different ways in which forest management can be provided under this bill? Furthermore, what I want to touch for a little while and certainly hear and the opinion of you legislator refers to organic production. Certainly, the bill you put in the procedure is good and more consistent than the previous one, but essentially it only changes the relationship to the certification houses that have so far, so to speak, worked freely even though they have not had adequate accreditations. Other provisions, which relate above all to organic production and existing legislation, did not limit production, but as the total agricultural production is not in that scope in this country, especially organic production has not been sufficiently developed and all around 1,200 hectares are under organic plant production, which is absolutely little compared to resources, and I do not know how it will increase in the coming period if you planned only 10 million of this year's agricultural budget as an investment for organic agricultural production, and thus the question of whether you will change this relationship after the adoption of this law and increase these funds for the subsidisation of organic agricultural production? Since time is up, I hope that in the principle debate there will be some time left for those questions that I haven't touched to apostrophe them.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38594	The word is from MP Zoran Nikolic, the mandated representative of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38595	Dear Ministers and members of the government, I am very pleased that you have come in this number. This suggests that the minister took his job seriously and that he came with his entire team of associates to make this debate better, but given how much law we have on the agenda and given what we could hear in the inaugural presentation of the minister, your presence completes a well-cuted play in which I see intensely and representatives of the ruling coalition, in order to present this overall idea of state and in Serbian agriculture, but now we see, since we have laws on the agenda on forests and on waters, therefore also in this segment, in the best possible way and how in the state of Serbia everything is fine. We have often talked about important agricultural laws by facing dozens or fifteen laws, and it is simply impossible to conduct a quality debate on all these laws. Today we have seven laws on the agenda, I will list them: the Law on Forests, the Law on the Recognition of Agricultural Plants, the Law on Beer, Amendments and Supplements to the Veterinary Act, the Law on Organic Production, a very important law, the Proposal for a Law on the Conduct of Advisory and Professional Affairs in the field of agriculture and, a special scandal, in the assembly procedure, just before the beginning of this session, comes the Water Act. We need to talk today about one system law, forest law. I think you agree that it deserves a whole day's debate. Today we should also discuss the water law, also the system law, and that deserves a special debate. But, the ruling coalition, first of all here in the Assembly, wants to pass more laws in the shortest time and thus make it impossible to discuss quality. The DSS MPs will discuss all the laws. I'm gonna focus a little more on the forest law. Note, in the introduction, we only heard a few indications about the forest law. Again, it's one scenario of a well-cuted play, a booklet that needs to drag all of us in this area as everything works in the best possible way. My intention is to put a little dramatic into this whole story, because the situation in Serbian forestry is dramatic, perhaps even called tragic. Now let's see who the tragics are in this play that you thought the tragedist didn't have and that everything goes according to plan and according to its course. We have before us the forest law, after almost 20 years of a new bill. What are the intentions of this law? What are the consequences of the application of this law? What will change significantly in Serbian forestry as a result of the application of this law? That's something we need to hear from the minister. I allow the agriculture sector to be closer to you, it is also more significant and touches more people, but forestry is also not such a meaningless business branch. It was more significant in some past period and mid - 20th century, but it is not now insignificant, and especially in its potential that branch can be much more significant. This law is heavily based on the 1991 legal solutions. The consequences of the application of this law tell us that in the past 20 years not many good things have happened in forestry and that the quality of the forest as a basic resource has not been corrected and has not been improved, on the contrary. If this law relys on it, and it also seeks a certain political will or a certain political stance, a political mile that understands this matter and is not corrupt, which is a feature of the past years when we talk about this area, then we can assume and conclude very clearly that the consequences will also be the same as the past two decades. What's the state of the public enterprises of the "Serbishum" and "Vojvodinashum"? What are the financial balances of last year's "Serbishum"? What's going on in that public firm? Are you familiar with the fact that for the first time Serbs take loans from commercial banks, forest lords, to settle salaries towards their employees? Is this the homeownership of the Public Enterprise of Serbia? Why does this year for the first time appear - that forest land and that Serbia's forests are in debt? Have you done an analysis of resource use, the quality of employees? What happened in the last year, since the new coalition came to power? How many new people are employed, the structure of these employees, the educational structure of these employees? Are those the men of the profession? No, it's political personnel. Are there any employees now, additionally activated pensioners from the PUPS party? There is. Who's the director of Serbia's forest today? Is that someone from the profession? It's not. These are the questions you need to answer. I think you as a minister are also interested in the state of the public enterprise not being worse during your term of office, and it has been rapidly failing in the last year or two days. A strategy for the development of forestry in Serbia was adopted in 2006. She, among other things, foresees your obligation, as Minister and Ministry, to develop a national forest programme, i.e. a forest programme. Why wasn't it done? You know why it wasn't done? Because the national forestry program doesn't exist -- it breaks with this law. One thing is, if this Strategy is supposed to find an optimal level of decentralisation, that's one thing and nobody's against it. It's a whole other thing, in my opinion, a catastrophic thing, that we're building two independent systems. We are making Serbia's territory of Serbia and Serbia's Vojvodina territory, that's what this law says. The 10-year forest development programme will be adopted by this parliament. Gentlemen, this is what you adopt only for the territory of Serbia. The programme for the development of forestry of the AP Vojvodina is adopted by the APV Assembly. The programme's implementation will also be supervised by the Ministry of the Republic of Serbia and certain powers will be carried out by the Serbian parliament, but the authority over control and supervision will have the APV's only authorities in Vojvodina. I'm sorry, it's not decentralisation, it's breaking up the state -- that's what I'm saying here. Perhaps fellow MPs unwittingly, and I believe that most of them are unconsciously involved in creating preconditions, that we don't give God for a certain period of time to create such an administration that is a staff to create a state. This law makes it clear that the intensity of this law is that. So, the situation in Serbia? Why has it started to decline so rapidly, or financial indicators to be so bad over the past year – that's the answer you're supposed to give us? What's going on in that Public Enterprise? What's the situation in the Vojvodina? Something better, but it's not good there either. What's going on with the forest inspection? What happens to the General Inspectorate, who was formed as you became minister? Do you know that these people who are placed in these places are very well organized. By sharing the same passion, which is hunting, they agree on how to set up jobs and are directly in conflict of interest – that forest inspectors deal with signs, force engineers on the ground to deal with the signs, and even force them to cut more than they should. Do you know how subsidies are spent in forestry? Can you say here that these subsidies are not spent on wages, but on what they're intended for, what money did you transfer them for? Do you know what's wrong with the openness of the forest? The state is building the so-called state. They've been hardening forest roads several times, and it's all going through the organs in your ministry, while some forest roads haven't been opened for twenty years now, and we just have ignored ingredients that aren't being used. These paths that we build several times for consequence have certain ingredients and surfaces exploiting more than is necessary. So, do you know what the state of the forest inspection is like? Do you know what the state of the General Inspectorate is? Is there a conflict of interest in the most responsible people? Do they deal with matters that should not be dealt with, for they also oversee such matters? What's the status of the forest inspection? They depend on Serbia. Instead of controlling them, they get all the funds and resources from Serbia – cars, even spaces and certain things they need to perform their work. When we talk about exploiting the forest, the worst thing is to use the forest for a heating tree, but of course we're still such a country where 600,000 households are supposed to be still heating up on that energy. With a simple calculation when you look at 600,000 households, when you take some average consumption, about five million cubic metres of wood is spent annually. Do you know how many reports by Serbia that trees have been spent – no more than three million? Do you know how many states lose money, not taxing hotwood? According to some flat-rate estimates, between seven and tenm euros each year. What kind of a yawn is that in those Serbians, and why is that tolerated? Why don't the Serbians have their own CEO? Because it's a matter of settlement and political trade within the ruling coalition. As we received reliable information, it must have belonged to the United Pensioners. United pensioners want to manage Serbian forests. It's a new moment, but it's not right -- for us to be the hostages of such a bad political agreement and such bad political trade. Tell me, do you know how many new personnel are employed and what is the educational structure? Where do people come from who have nothing to do with forestry? There's no money in that, but there's money in the Money Directorate for their high wages and high fees. This law, I say, doesn't matter, or there's no difference to the 1991 Law, and that's what's wrong. He doesn't separate a public function from a business function, he doesn't make a clear difference, and he should do it. In particular, this law is a smut in that it gives to you – that you will define many things with subsequent regulations, which is also not good. The intensity of controlling everything, showing and seeing clearly in one good proposal to form a forest chamber, which is certainly good and necessary. But there's also one proposal in the law that you have here in Article 93 -- where you want absolute control of that chamber. So, the Chamber of Engineering, the Management Board of the Engineering Chamber, are president, vice president, three representatives of the ministry and two representatives of the competent authority of the AP. Then what kind of engineering chamber is this? It's a chamber formed by the government, in which the government has a majority of five to two. It's an insult, one slap for the profession, and it's certainly not an honor. We are talking about balanced regional development. I proposed one amendment – why would the headquarters of that Engineering Chamber be in Belgrade? Why does everything have to be in Belgrade? Does Belgrade grow the most forest? Perhaps the most canvas grows in the streets, but it is quite certain that Belgrade's land is not the most significant and that there are centres such as: Loznica, Boranja, there is Ivanica, there is Kučevo. Why don't we do that decentralisation? I suggested that the seat of that chamber be in Loznica. Why wouldn't it be? Why does everything have to be in Belgrade or in Novi Sad? I heard you refused that proposal. So, it's all right, to propose a lot of laws, to say it's a need to bring our legislation into line with the EU, but that's not the point. The bottom line is whether the application of these laws improves a particular sector or not. I'm telling you now that this forest law will not improve the situation in Serbian forestry. I've taken out a few arguments and I've got a lot more. Then the question arises – why are we passing this law? In order for the Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry to write that a dozen laws have been proposed and adopted, and how close are we to the EU, and how will you get a positive assessment from some competent commission? All right, but what good are citizens doing? What good does that have to do with the waist? What good is it, in the end line, the state, if this state of affairs continues or, God forbid, it even keeps getting worse and deeper? So, "Serbishum", "Vojvodinashum" -- the giants of our country on glass feet. General Inspectorate, forest inspections, all very nicely networked to the harm of the state. That's what you should think about, and that's what the law had to do, to break this bond between each other, which is to the detriment of forests and forestry. I'll leave three more minutes for the show at the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38596	Authorised representative Zoran Nikolic has two minutes and 30 seconds to take advantage of the debate after he has applied for a word. Before we continue the work, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me inform you that part of today's session, part of our work, starting from 13.00 hours, from the gallery of the Great Hall of the National Assembly, is followed by a group of students of the fourth year of the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade and that: Andrea Todosijević, Mirela Kondić, Irena Marković, Jovo Popović, Dragan Mitić, Milorad Tunić, Ivana Bogdanović, Jelena Pejić, Ljiljana Cmiljanović, Marija Nikčević, Nemanja Miletić, Jovan Joksimović, Dejan Krkljuš, Ivana Stević, Ivana Marjanović, Nikola Bozinović, Dušica Tasić, Vladan Marjanović, Tea Lucić, Igor Despotević, Mladen, Darko Ilić, Milanić, Mirjana Vasić, Mirjana Mižić and Slavina Miljić. Welcome to your house, to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Minister Sasha Dragin called.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38597	I thank the honourable People's MP for the discussion. This is a very serious subject and I can inform you that, as far as the work of the Inspectorate General and the forest-hunting inspection has been done last year, 16,000 surveillance has been carried out. In these supervisions, a basis was found for raising 3,977 criminal charges, 173 criminal charges and 71 applications for a business offense. Dear People's MP, you have made serious accusations in your discussion on the work of the Serbian Public Enterprise, that is, his employees, as well as charges of illegal work of inspectors at the General Inspectorate of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. What I can tell you is that you've described in detail what kind of criminal or criminal they are, or what other acts they've been committed in this case. I expect that, given that you are very well aware of this, in a very short time, the Ministry of Agriculture will provide all evidence of the execution of these acts or, ultimately, to the police. If you do not do so, you have my word that you will be responsible for the crime of not reporting a crime, a crime to help the perpetrator after a crime has been committed, that is, the criminal act of concealing the execution of the crime. Every word spoken in this House is public. Every word should be well-tended and every word should have great seriousness and there are many reasons behind that word for which it is spoken. My goal and the only goal is to improve the sector, not only forestry, but also water and agriculture. I'm really behind it. If you can help me with that, I'll be really grateful. Believe me, if this kind of thing you just said exists, I'll be the first to bring it out in public and solve these problems. So I ask you once again that if there is such information, and I see that you are very detailed about it, that you deliver it to us as soon as possible, and I promise you that we will urgently deliver this information to the authorities that need to examine such things.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38598	National MP Zoran Nikolic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38599	I'll tell you two things. Never threaten a MP in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38600	The People's Messenger, if any participant had threatened the People's Messenger, he would have been warned, so if he had continued, he would have been warned. If you listened carefully to Minister Sasa Dragin, Minister Sasa Dragin has given notice of what he is obliged to do in the case of...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38601	On what! Speak correctly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38602	What exactly is said in Vojvodina - of what. I'm sorry. Please don't throw it away. What is required in the event that criminal information is provided and that the person who gives the information on the criminal offences committed does not want to give evidence, or to act further when it comes to criminal offences. I ask you not to make false claims about the threats made by the MPs, because this is a very serious claim, and I remind you of your responsibility for the public word. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38603	Thank you. The other thing I'm trying to tell you is that I'm reacting completely differently under threat, that it's motivation for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38604	People's MP, no one threatened you. I ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to respectfully treat other participants in the session and to have the awareness that the weight and influence of your public word is enormous. He didn't threaten you. If anyone had dared, it would have been prevented from me as chairman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38605	I am aware or unaware of these words, but I have the right to this word as a People's MP and no one can deny it to me. Among other things, I have a constitutional right and a protected right to talk in this congregation about things I want to talk about. This is where the qualification is given that I am fully familiar with the details of the crimes committed. I just informed you that magazine engineers are under a lot of pressure thanks to the edges that exist between forest inspection and the General Inspectorate, and that one of the important factors is why the forest is used more than necessary, excessively, among other things, because pressure is being made and because it is perfectly natural and possible that someone who is in the forest inspection and the Inspector General can exert pressure and can influence who makes the connections in the forest. I have no intention of adding or subtracting anything I've said and what I've just said. If I were you, I know what I'd do, but you're the executive authority here, this is the legislative authority, and the border is clear. My job as a representative of the legislative authority is to warn you, and I said it was extremely well-intentioned, about the information that came to me. I have no intention of taking part in any process, but I'm not disputing it right for you, and that's the threat you shouldn't have said here, because the MP has the right to bring it here... (President: People's MP, I warn you the second time. You can warn me as much as you want, you should not interfere first in this conversation. .. (President: National MP, I warn you that you are violating the Rules of Procedure, that you are speaking in an rude manner to the Chairman and... No, you're very rude, as always. (President: don't force me to criminalize. ) Of course, and it's rude of you, but here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38606	People's MP, for the second time, I warn you that your next violation of the Rules of Procedure and conduct is beyond the provisions that prescribe the manner of conduct between each of the participants of the session, which is my obligation under Article 100 to make a statement. Please don't do this, you have another 30 seconds, your lines. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38607	Thank you, that's enough. I still believe that I live in a democratic state and that I have the right to say what I mean as a MP. What's going on here right now is that this isn't exactly a democratic assembly and it reminds me of those old communist times that you obviously have practices from. In your basket, Mrs. Comic, I'll never play. I have entered politics to make this country a democratic state and believe me, since you are on that path, you believe me that you will be removed from that path, because you are being defended by a democratic state.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38608	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Sasha Dragin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38609	I wanted to ask Reverend Nikolic to stay at the session, because I just wanted to say that he had just reiterated that he owned information that there were illegal activities in the work of the General Inspectorate and that there was a rope between forest inspection, forest inspection, as he said, and the General Inspectorate. Of course there's a string, since forest-hunting inspectors work at the Inspectorate General. It's not a sprawl. It's called an employee's face. That's the first thing. The second thing, since he reaffirmed that there is information about illegal actions and that he owns information, again I ask him to give you information. If that's what she said in the domain, if that's in the domain of what she just said, that there's a possibility, I would still ask that, indeed, such things don't come out in this esteemed place, for a simple reason, because they insult the dignity of both the Assembly and the state authorities doing their job.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38610	The word has been given by MP Radisa Ilic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38611	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a set of laws ahead of us, and I will mainly address the MPs about the forest law, while the other SRS MPs will talk about these remaining laws. There are rare occasions when the National Assembly can discuss Serbian forests, the wealth that Serbia still has. This law has been long prepared. They've become announcements since 2004, so, finally, six years later, that day came. We can boast of some forest wealth. This is what the figures say about the percentage of noise in Serbia, the percentage of the degraded forests, the print forests, that is, the grassland forest, which are well below the average in Europe. Those numbers look like this, you've heard about it this day. The total area under the forest is 29% in Serbia's territory. The average in Europe is 47%. Of the total area, under the forest in Serbia, only 28% belongs to high forests, i.e. the forests of seed origin, which is the percentage that concerns. On the basis of a national EU accession strategy, Serbia will ratify an international agreement on tropical wood will have little importance for our forestry in Serbia. This law normally follows a qualification also known to the staff of the Forest Administration, as well as in public enterprises, where this law is a set of laws, not only from the aspect of nearly one billion euros planned for a period of 10 years to improve the state of the forest in Serbia, but also from the aspect of some of the actions provided for in this law. As for these percentages of noise in Serbia, then the percentages related to high forests and forests, it is the fact that they occurred based on reports on the implementation of annual forest management plans, i.e. performance projects developed for each department in particular. I believe, and the gentlemen of the Forest Administration probably know that there are certainly countless departments in Serbia's Forests that only have some particular wood mass on paper, and in fact they're decimated by the cutting of trees past the signs, and thus by the project of performance. There are entire areas that are literally cleaned with pure urine, and they're still said that these areas have grown high in forest. I'm telling you this from some experience about forestry. You know, when it's drawn up in some forest land, it's planned to produce, say, 15 thousand cubic logs from a seed tree and say, 30 thousand feet of warm wood and as it's nearing the end of the year, there's no amount, and that's the only amount that's not enough. The new performance project can't be carried out in half a year for that same year, so then what I said happens. This false situation is then transmitted year after year and as such incompletely enters the forest development plan and we now comfort ourselves that we have this percentage of noise in Serbia. Of course none of us want the forest to look like that, but if we are to improve forestry and increase noise in Serbia, we need to see the real situation on the ground. There's another problem here right now. What's this about? When an unplanned section is cut into some or several departments of a forest administration, and in the performance projects it is not envisaged, we come up with a situation that we have entire spaces with extremely well-produced forest, if not completely cut clean cut. It would be necessary now to resuscitate these departments and do so by shaming, but how to do so, how to predict it with a performance plan, when there are also wood masses there based on the state of the material books. Not to mention the situation in the private woods, which is even worse and where we have a much more drastic devastation of the forest. Speaking of clean cut, which is also provided for by this law, Article 9, with certain conditions, I would like to offer on behalf of my colleagues specific suggestions to the Proposer. Article 9(4) does not mention a situation of what to do with the forest that was destroyed by fire. Only mentions are burned unprocessed surfaces. In leaf species, the drying of the trees after the fire is later manifested and usually starts from the hives, by depleting the crust, to dry itself completely after about three to five years. In the Chetinari, this manifests immediately and the damages are much greater. You just predicted opening up against the fire lines and nothing else. If we want to implement a forest resolution under Article 16, it turns out that it will not be possible, because you do not predict such a thing to this member, except in the position of Article 16, you foresee the obligation to execute a firehouse. How is that surface going to sound, this firehouse, if you don't cut down the trees first? The logical question is, if you leave them to dry, to fall, and then the assembly disappears, no one on that surface will be able to break from the bushes, because of the weeds of fallen and cross-trees, etc. In addition, those trees will then have much greater value if they cut themselves first year after the fire than to wait for them to dry completely. We have submitted amendments to these articles. The 9th and the 16th, and we think their adoption will be beneficial to the forest owners. In order to round up this story of fires, I would suggest that in order to look at the true state of things on the ground, you try ortossing the terrain under the woods. Every illogical clearing in the forest can be located very quickly, and then check that the condition on the ground corresponds to what is basically written. This method is already widely used by many municipalities due to the adoption of a general urban plan and the first reactions make this process much easier because, I repeat, we will not do anything without the proper start-up state of the forest. Speaking of project plans related to deadlines, I'd like to pass on a suggestion, but also an evaluation of the people of the forest profession, which could affect you changing certain provisions. The deadline for the implementation of the project is 31 October and should be moved, if possible, by 30 November, by 15 November. The design of a project of performance is a large and demanding job which will capture the engineers, i.e. retail magazine engineers, in the offices just when they are most needed on the ground, in the woods, to bring the end of the seeds, especially fertilising cuts. October is really the last month of the year when something can still be done before the snow appears, but because of the design of the project, instead of in the woods, engineers will be sitting in the office. By the way, your deadline for the adoption of the annual plan would be moved by as many days as the deadline for the design of the performance projects would be moved. Now, I'd like you to pay attention to Article 27, because there are open objections from the directors of the land, and the directors of the forest administrations and forest engineers. Contradictions concern, in particular, item 2, which says that the new basis, the programme, is brought no later than six months before the expiry date of the previous base. If it's not a printing error, then this is going to be one problem that will be overcome with pain. This is how you force someone who works on building a base, or a forest master's program to say on the future basis, on a former basis missing one year, at least six months until the end of a ten-year period. How do you imagine someone continuing their continuity with the previous base, if the law enforcement came up with a hole of at least six months? What indicators will create a future basis and whether engineers should be, I would say, prophets know how to do these last six months, so that these jobs that haven't even happened would be a bond for making a new foundation? That last year is actually a time period when everything can be done, those who work in forestry know that well. That period is literally out of control. And after the adoption of a new basis, which will be partly based on the previous report, which will be defiled in the last ten years, no one will pay any more attention to that period or return. As for keeping plans under Article 37, this applies only to forest management plans. It would be very necessary if we wanted to have continuity in monitoring the development of each division within the management units, that these performance plans were kept together with the relevant books, which is very important. So you would know absolutely everything about this department, about all the ubiquitous, sanitary, fertilizing, about the diseases, about the vermin, possible noises, the fires, we would briefly have an overview of the entire patrol of a department. This job would generationally be passed on to forest owners, as the patrol is a long period in the life of a woody species, for example, the patrol of European beech, a fagus rape, lasts for 120 years. I would now like to comment on Article 58 relating to the identification of cutting trees and also Article 95, which refers to the licence to carry out professional tasks in forest management. Based on the draft law, future forest engineers, who have otherwise made a mark of the cutting trees, will have to take expert examinations to obtain a license, perhaps in front of members of the commission who have not paid for the marked hammer in their lives, except while they have been educated. No matter what engineers have done professionally, maybe 15, 20 or 30 years, now, after so much experience in forest management, they have to, a good part of them in recent years, take that exam. Ministers should provide for the possibility of granting automatic licences to engineers who have worked in forest management jobs for, say, 15 or more years. This way, we'll have thousands of Serbian employees and other public enterprises to pass this, in a series of others, exams. I would also refer to Article 70, which refers to forest management in state property. One opinion also rules among employees in public enterprises who manage forests in state property, which is that you put them in a position of sub-seat by this law, that you have prepared public companies in forestry, whose founder will also be the Republic of Serbia. Some kind of DOO or AD is created with limited liability and are going into business. But how, in which part of the forest, with which, that's a special question. It is known, and the annex includes the division of the territory of the Republic of Serbia into forest areas. Malta's territory is almost 100% divided, and I'm just wondering what the forests are, what are the parts of the forest areas that are going to belong to some company tomorrow. We know that there are some smaller municipal forests on municipal land, then remises or protective belts of trees, and it can be understood, although it will also serve the frame of the "Serbishum" or some other public enterprise. I don't think anyone's going to hire a dozen engineers, technicians, administrators for 20 acres of woods the size of two departments in some land unit. The question is-- is there something behind this bill? Article 71, which refers to the work in the forest of the owners for whom the programme is brought, mentions the Forest Owners' Association, which should own more than 100 hectares of forest and which may have an employee professional person. However, when it comes to the owners' associations, Article 73, which says these associations will have priority in the use of funds from the budget fund. Now I ask – who will have priority, for example, one association of owners that recently formed in eastern Serbia, more specifically in Podgorica? Could it be from JP "Serbishum" or another public enterprise or national parks? These are all the misunderstandings that confuse employees of public enterprises who run state forests. As far as the environmental side of this law is concerned, I would like to mention Article 49 concerning the disposal of waste in the forest. It is known that forests, because of their vastness, unpopulatedness, because of natural characteristics, drills, caves and caves, are very suitable for the disposal of hazardous waste, which is growing more and more in our environment. You predicted that garbage, toxic substances and hazardous waste should not be disposed of in the forest and on forest land less than 200 metres from the edge of the forest, so at 250 meters and more anything can be done, and only the oasis of clean air, clean springs can be converted into the blackest dumps of hazardous waste. In this same article you have provided for a ban on building facilities for storage, processing or destruction of waste, toxic substances and other hazardous waste. If that's exactly how your fellow ministers feel otherwise, I'll give you concrete proof. Mr. Minister, when a sharp discussion was taken about the construction of a facility for the physical-chemical treatment of hazardous waste at Ćupre, and it was about the processing of 43,000 dangerous substances annually, Minister Oliver Dulic, to explain that it was not military parcels at Ćupre, and he was wrong, but believed or not, about the Pasuljan meadows. This is what the minutes of the Committee on Environmental Protection have said since 21 April 2009. "The minister added that the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning entered into negotiations with the Ministry of Defence on the entry of military complex land, pay attention to the Pasuljan meadows for this project, because the territory has a lower concentration of population population. In addition, the construction of this centre on the territory of the municipality of Cupri (and in fact on the territory of the municipality of Despotovac) will contribute to the faster economic development of the municipality and around 200 new jobs will be opened and additional resources will be invested in the development of infrastructure. ''So, Minister Oliver Dulic intended to place one plant for the processing of hazardous waste in the heart of the forest of the South Kucai. I don't think I need to tell you when it comes to these forests and what's worse is the forests that have been returned to the 2006 Restitution Act by the SPC. This is an introduction to a discussion that will refer to the monastery forests, which, by historical, cultural and traditional values, should receive special treatment under this law, but unfortunately, it is lagging behind. The monastery forests were recognised after the break of the Serbian state and in Turkish times. Also, Prince Aleksandar Karadjordjevic in 1847 set up a state commission to limit the forests of the Ravenic monastery and other monastery forests. In the first Serbian Law on Forests of 1891, there is a section dedicated to the monastery forests and beginning with Article 81 which originally reads – dealing with monastery and church forests. In this current law, I was able to read only one place about the monastery forests. However, after the adoption of the 2006 Restitution Act, one part of the forest in Branicevska eparchy, and probably throughout Serbia, is not returned to the SPC. Among them are the forests of the Ravanica monastery. The problem is obviously that in one part of about 1,200 hectares there is a military polygon of the Besuljan meadow. The military polygon covers exactly 61 hectares and 15 acres of these monastery forests, but because of that, the property of the SPC has been blocked at all 1,200 hectares. What can be said of the mentioned forests is that, in a large percentage, they are demoted or simply destroyed by the fact of mine-explosive means, very frequent fires, etc. The SPC does not dispute that the military polygon exists still where it is and that the church itself will take over all the provisions of this land lease contract, concluded in 17.1.2006 between the "Serbian" and the Ministry of Defence. In this bill, you explained a figure of nearly a billion euros for forest improvements. One part of these funds will also be allocated for the recovery of damaged substances, as well as the ingredients that have been burned, and that is some total amount of 66m euros for a 10-year period. I quote this because of one, I would say, unrealisticly, at this point in time, an idea that has been rounding up the public in Serbia for the past month, and it concerns platana problems. I believe the mayor of Belgrade himself, Gilas, will not dare implement the idea of buying 400 trees of a plateau about 20 cm from abroad, in order to replace the process of removing those plateaus in King Alexander's Boulevard. The idea was presented in the City Assembly to members of the Committee on Environmental Protection. We've had a chance to see on the tapes how the big tow truckes with two trees with roots and cranes with which these trees are planted. The whole operation -- a platan, I would say, would cost the city of Belgrade and Serbia, believe it or not, a million euros, according to the mayor himself. One such tree abroad costs between 1,500 and 2,000 euros, plus transport costs, planting, maintenance. I'm asking you -- can we afford such a luxury that in this misery, the crisis is set aside by a million euros to buy trees? Let me just point out, I'm ending up, for the hammock of one hectare, let's say, the black pine trees need to be singled out in total about 100,000 dinars. There's the cost of seedlings, transportation and labour. For a million euros, planned to buy, if that happens, a platana, which is 100 million dinars, can be forested just 1,000 hectares of nudity, or 10km of square meters. I think I've made myself clear. In Serbia, seedlings can be found that would neatly arrange the woodwood in the mentioned Bulevaru, though smaller diameters, but will be as safe as Belgrade's permits.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38612	The word is made by Minister Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38613	First of all, I would like to sincerely thank Mr. Ilic for an extremely constructive and very good discussion. It is evident that he studied the laws extremely well, especially the Law on the Forests. I just want to say a few things. Just so that we do not continue to have a variety of data in the debate, as I have seen 35, 40 and 47% in EU countries mentioned several times. The correct data is now checked on their official website 33% of the EU's noise. Serbia is 29.1%. Generally, given that we are a country located in the south, in the face of those countries that are in central and southern Europe, we can compete with them by the deforestation of the forest, even we are well forested. In our case, the problem is far greater, because it is unbalanced noise and that is what we have to correct, i.e. the composition of these forests, quality, sortiment. As for your discussion, I can say that we could generally accept your suggestion on the board. I sincerely hope Mr. Mašić will help us with that. Personally, I don't think garbage is generally a place anywhere but in adequate places, and these are recycling sites, so as far as I'm concerned, you have my absolute support for your proposal that the garbage dumps go at least 400 metres from the forest perimeter. As far as your license issue is concerned, it's simply a practice in all countries. Of course, it may, I say, go to the honor of some engineer who's been in the woods for 20 years doing that job so he has to put up for his license now, but it just has to start once. In that first run, we may underestimate a few of them, but those who come after them will be young engineers. Since you have a chamber to be a member of the chamber, you know you have to have a license. It's not just here, but in any engineering chambers it's just a practice. As far as forest inventory is concerned, orthophotos of the whole of Serbia are generally being done, as far as I'm aware, through the Republic Geodetic Institute. What is very important to us is that part of the agricultural area, because we want to improve our system in such a way that we can monitor it based on these systems and digitise all the areas in Serbia. In this way we will know exactly who is the owner, what is the production, what is the quantity of the product, in which the system of production, whether it is organic, whether it is inorganic, how much it produces fertilizer, whether it is used for livestock food. Generally, you can extract a series of data from that. The system is being created by the Ministry of Agriculture for the Agency for Agricultural Payments. But as far as the forest inventory is concerned, it was made in 2009. You may not have new information, but in 2009, we did inventory of the forest and we have exactly by species, by area and by property of the entire inventory of the forest. I can't say we're happy with what we found, but we're trying to make it better. What is also very important is that this law opens up the possibility of far better financing new forest plantings. What's also important is that there is an opening of the possibility of reforestation of some surfaces that could not be forested so far, that's what's very important, that some of the forests are declared to be unforeigned areas so far, and were not thus protected from illegal cutting, such as wind protection belts that are, you must admit, extremely important, especially in the north of the country where there is no forest, especially in Banat. It is also very important for us that the funds are really used on purpose. We are ready, because you know that my position is that not all the money has to go from Belgrade or from Novi Sad, to carry out as much decentralisation as possible, and we 87 local funds for the development of agriculture throughout Serbia have been established to transfer exactly the funds from the Republic to the local and thus enable the local to decide what they will do with these funds, in which way they will spend. We are also prepared to discuss helping local self-governments to make part of those fees that will be used for shamming just go to local self-governments, because local self-governments have a desire to get involved in this job as well. After all, I think it's a good way for local leadership to get a little bit of work and a little education about the need for shaming. It happens very often that local self-governments don't know that and that they don't understand the importance of the forest. Let's just say, I know that the previous local self-government in Kickinda was cut before the election, I don't know how many trees, if I'm not mistaken, Celtis, to share as a warm-up. It's one hell of a crime against those trees that's been done. You just can't do that. For that reason, I think this is the best way to show that local self-government needs to take responsibility for shaming. As for the rest of your suggestions, I can tell you that most of the things were in place and we want to help, if you have time, to discuss a little more. We can take a break, as far as we're concerned, there's no problem. We want to make this law better, and this was definitely a very good debate. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38614	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Dear People's MPs, I would like to remind you that we had a rather inappropriate atmosphere in this room on 7 April 2010 and that communication and mutual respect between us were not on the level here, resulting in one very unpleasant statement or a few sentences spoken by one of our colleagues, Mr Tomislav Nikolic. The following measures can otherwise be expressed because of the breach of order at the session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia: the warning measure, the taking of words or the distance from the session. Article 106 of point 6 provides for the possibility of the use of swearing or offensive expressions of a warning measure, while Article 108(2) provides for the possibility that measures previously expressed in the case of a ‘physical attack or other similar procedure which endangers the physical but moral integrity of the participants of the session in the building of the National Assembly may be expressed or the distance from the sitting’. As I saw in my subsequent insight into the stenographic notes, and after consulting and seeing the TV footage, I saw it as indisputable that MP Tomislav Nikolic at the National Assembly session on 7 April 2010, about 13.00 hours, had said a curse, and since I was not able to give the appropriate measure, I am taking the opportunity to say the same thing, on the basis of Article 107. The Rules of Procedure, the measure of confiscation of words. I hereby declare this measure consciously and responsibly as an adequate measure for what has been done, for the reason that I was unable to say the least measure, the measure of caution or the most difficult measure, the distance from the session, and that Mr Tomislav Nikolic, who was spoken with a curse, threatened the moral integrity of the participants of the session and then apologized afterwards. I am aware that the measure has been imposed without previously stated measures, but because I subsequently established a state of fact, I was unable to make any previous measures or measures of caution. The measure of confiscation of words in the sitting under way shall be applied until the end of this session and shall be an adequate measure. I'm setting a break by 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38615	We're continuing the session in the afternoon. The Presidents, i.e. authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, shall have the right to speak in this part of the sitting. The word is from the People's MP Željko Brestovsky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38616	Dear Vice-President, Your Honor, it is my pleasure to see today in this Parliament the Republic of Serbia as one team of people who is constantly working to improve the conditions in our agriculture. This morning, when I left for Belgrade, I was met by my neighbor, Janko, who is an individual agricultural producer, who was preparing to go out into the atmosphere, to start with a set of corn. Since our agricultural producers these days can't wait for a good time to take advantage of every opportunity, they're going seriously into the spring agricultural work. He told me the following: Željko go to parliament, today is a debate about agriculture, the laws are on the agenda, but before you tell our minister, he said with his finger like this – tell him it's not a great situation in our agriculture, there are a lot of problems: expensive oil, re-promatter, we have problems with old machinery, we have a lot of problems getting new machinery, we have a problem with bargaining, with bad parities. Tell him that only at this moment can the state help our agricultural producer. I think it's one signal that says that our agricultural producer has understood the competition, understands our aspirations, our Republic of Serbia, which is moving in the right direction, which is European integration, the modern world and new technologies, but in this state in which our agricultural producer is very difficult to do on its own something that could classify it at the level of productivity as developed agriculture in the European Union. The question is raised on this subject – what should the state do now and what can the state do to help our agricultural producer? That's what our Republic government is doing and that's what our Ministry of Agriculture is doing today. Over the past year, this ministry has proposed 22 laws and many ratifications, or 23. So that's what one part can provide the right level and the right conditions for the new way our agriculture works. On the other hand, we also have sublaws. We have those things the government is doing, and that's making new regulations. Twenty new regulations were adopted by the Republic government on a proposal from the Ministry of Agriculture, including some. This is a regression regulation. It's that regulation that's been going on for years. It started with an amount of 8,000 dinars, then 100 euros, and went up to ten, twelve. This year we see that the regulation is at 14,000 dinars per hectare. It helps our agricultural producer a lot, but it's not a social category. This is very important to say that this regulation helps the agricultural producer to obtain quality and sufficient quantities of repromation in a cheaper way. When we look at whether it's small or much, it's certainly not enough, but when we look at the other side – to rightly process one hectare of agricultural land takes about 30,000 dinars, and this regulation provides 14,000 dinars, this is an indication that we provide almost 50% of the necessary re-comparation for the right way of investing in a hectare of a working surface. They say it's a Euro diesel set, it's expensive diesel. For agricultural producers, it moves about 100 dinars, but everyone forgets that our agricultural producers have the right to return the excise duty of 60 liters per hectare, the return of excise duty, and that is another 2,000 dinars by about one hectare of the sown area. So it's not for our agricultural producer diesel and euro diesel 100 dinars, it's something cheaper, so it's about 75-80 dinars somewhere. How can we help our agricultural producer in these conditions with these regulations that are very important and important? And these are the laws that have been passed over the last year. It is the Law on Plant Protection, the Law on Plant Protection, the Law on Cancer and Other Alcoholic Drinks, the Wine Act. The Law on Public Storages, this law is very interesting and has caused very good reactions on the ground. However, one of the remarks of our agricultural producers is that it is not sufficiently implemented in the system on the ground. We still don't have enough public warehouses. This is one condition why our agricultural producers will not use one part of the regulation in 100% of the amount. This is what you say about short-term loans, which are very interesting for our agricultural producers – that it is possible to obtain a short-term loan of between 50,000 and 900,000 dinars, if a guarantee of a bank or mortgage is given and if a guarantee is given in terms of goods records, which is provided through public storage facilities, it is possible to provide short-term credit for the re-promatter of a million and 200 to two million dinars. So this law allowed our farmers to lag their goods, not to sell it or market it on unfavourable terms, to wait for the best moment, but also to provide the goods records, to have on the other hand the possibility of applying according to the credit lines. Then we have the Law on cattle farming, the Animal Well-being Act. Furthermore, it is also the Agricultural Land Act, which is also very good and which has also shown all its good side over the past few months, when we had bids to rent state agricultural land. This law has shown that many more leases can be charged from the traffic achieved on this land, for the simple reason that they prevented the machinations of our tycoons on the ground, which bid enormously high agricultural land prices, and this law prevented it. As far as I hear from the Director of the Land Administration, that amount of funds is about 4 billion for last year, which is commendable. I'm coming back again, that's a very good thing for a team about Minister Dragin, who made excellent results in the previous period. Then we have the Rural Development Act. We know what villages look like to us and what it means to help our farmers, our residents in these abandoned environments, especially in southern Serbia, and I can tell you in Vojvodina many bad things happen in villages, that is, this law will help them in the coming period. The food safety law has brought many, many changes and made a major shift in food safety and control of these things, when it comes to our diet. Today we have before us a law on forests, a law on water, a law on the recognition of varieties of agricultural herbs, a law on beer, a veterinary law, an organic production law and a law on the provision of advisory services in the field of agriculture. When we look at this set of laws that are before us today, we add it to the laws previously passed, it creates the impression that all these laws and a few more to be done in the next period until 2011 and 2012 will ensure that this area is first, I think, an area that will be fully in line with EU legislation. So this is a very important moment, and it should be pointed out that when this Parliament adopts all these laws, it will have an open field for the right way of functioning as in the EU, which means that we will be able to withdraw a lot more resources when we have fully opened European doors, that we will have the possibility, the system, the technique of how to do it, but in these years or two days we will learn our agricultural producer how to rightly apply to the funds of the Republic of Serbia, but also to EU funds. These laws, which will be discussed more today, talk a lot about our government's plans. It is very important to say that this government, the government of the Republic of Serbia has a plan, has a strategy on how to live, work until 2020, and not only today for the regulation, but these sets of laws that are passed here will allow every ministry, every republican institution, AP Vojvodina or local self-government to know through legislative activity, through the laws how their activity should look in the next ten years. Which is very important, and we haven't had a case so far when some laws, like the Foresting Act, are almost 20 years old and are not in line with new trends. On this occasion, I would like to commend the work of the Committee on Agriculture, which in the right professional way works with the Ministry, who understands this matter in the right way and in the right way, and in a non-political way, but in a professional way headed by Professor Mašić, who wants to co-operate in one correct way, wants to contribute to the adoption of quality laws. I hope that one number of amendments submitted and the Committee on Agriculture will be adopted and I hope that after this debate, we will have a cycle that will only be a boost for our agricultural producers in primary agricultural production, but also in secondary production. The law on veterinary care is a very important law that will provide exports and extend the market for our products, such as the pigmeat market, the meat market, fish, pasteurised milk, and provide plenty of room for serious agricultural production in the coming period. I'd end up with this, and I'd leave some time behind. Once again, thank you and I hope, with my voice which these laws will receive, that the voice of all people who think about a better perspective of agricultural production will ensure that these laws are adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38617	It's been used 14 minutes. This right to speak during this session was used by all the authorised representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups, so I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a search for a word in writing, and with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: SPS – JS, New Serbia, Forward Serbia, DSS, SRS and ZES. Before I give my first word on the list of speakers declared for a word in the joint principle and uniform search on the drafts of the law in paragraphs 8-14 and 84-90, I would like to inform you that today, on the basis of Article 85 paragraph 5, we will also work after 1800 hours, a united principle debate, subject to laws currently on the agenda, until the debate is concluded.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38618	Mrs. Komic, the Honored Presidency, the Honored Ministers, the Honored Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, my colleague, the authorised representative of the SPS Parliament Club – JS, according to this united debate of two extremely important legislative proposals, said that the SPS – JS parliamentary club in the voting day will support these legislative proposals, but I simply believe that this debate in principle, as well as the debate on details, should be used and given some suggestions and suggestions, ask certain questions and misunderstandings that plague us, for a simple reason to get as high-quality legislative proposals as possible, i.e. to get as high-quality legislation as possible. Mr. Minister, I didn't get a chance to meet my neighbors this morning when I was headed to the Assembly, but by chance, I had a chance to talk to the representatives of the city of Valjevo and the executive authority in Valjevo. I had the opportunity to talk to representatives of the Public Enterprise Kolubara, a public company through which the finalisation and final phase of one of the most significant capital investments in the territory of the city of Valjev, on the territory of the Kolubar district, therefore, defends the Stubo-Rovni. First of all, based on everything that they've made and based on the concerns I've had, I'd like to make a few findings about both legislative proposals, but first of all, the Water Law proposal, to ask a few questions. As far as the water law itself is concerned, it can be characterised as comprehensive, as a significant shift in the alignment of this area with EU directives. That's something that's already been said, among other things. True, the previous Water Act was passed in 1991. Up until now, only minor changes and alignment with laws relating above all to the jurisdiction of the province have been made. So, as I have already said, since I come from the city and the region within which the final phase of realization is under way, I have already said, a very significant capital investment for this district and for the city itself, capital investments that will, at the moment when the water supply problem is over, not just this region, not just the Colubary County, but many municipalities outside of the Colubar County. My discussion will be directed in something different, something different context. So, I want to speak and express my opinion about how this law itself, if anything doesn't change, will refer to the Public Enterprise of Kolubara, which I have already mentioned, and to the city of Valjev. So, the member I want to mention first and to which I want to point certain suggestions is Article 23, which says that a public water company founded to carry out water work on a particular territory, the Public Business "Serbian" in Serbia's territory manages dams, accumulations, except for the facilities that legal persons have built for their own needs. The water management of the Sava water area with a symmetry of Sava with Kolubara and Drin is being conducted by the Public Enterprise of "Serbia" from Belgrade. In Article 224 of this legislative proposal, the legal person who manages the facilities referred to in Article 23 of this Act shall again include dams with accumulations, it shall be required to transfer within six months of the date of entry into force of this law to the management of those facilities to the Public Enterprise "Serbia". The public company "Serbian" is obliged to take over the management of the facility, as well as the rights and obligations created by the construction, use and maintenance of these facilities. Article 216 says a fine of 500,000 to three million dinars for a commercial offence will punish a legal person if the water facilities he manages do not transfer to a competent public water company. The economic offense will be punishable, among other things, by a responsible person in a legal person, with a fine of 100,000 to 200,000 dinars. In my opinion, I would like to make a mistake, but I don't want to believe it, but it seems to me that this is the end of the investment that has been carried out, in the sense that the realisation of this investment is being carried out through the Public Undertaking of Kolubara and that the city of Valjevo has a concrete impact on its management and use. The question arises whether we need this right now, when the works are at the end and within the given time limit for the transfer should begin the test filling of the Stubo-Rovni dam. Even greater damage to Valjevo, in a certain context, we sign capitulation ourselves and transfer the dam and the accumulation to JP "Serbia". The question arises what use will the city of Valjevo benefit from this object if it is not managed by it? Article 146 says regional and multi-purpose hydrosystems are complex systems to provide water needs, water supply, irrigation, water protection in the territory of two or more units of local self-government, the management and maintenance of these hydrosystems is carried out by a public enterprise. It's a very decadent "public business" thing. This article does not specify which public enterprise, probably referring to JP "Serbia". I suggest this for a simple reason because perhaps there is a solution that another public company, which has been granted a licence and which is founded by local administrations for the construction and use of this system, can pass on to it the use. If the company does not get a license from the ministry, then it should be given the deadline in this context to transfer the facilities to JP "Serbia". I point out once again, this is what I find and mention, because perhaps this article contains a solution and an answer to the question that I have asked. So perhaps you should consider adding, in Article 146(2), "a public enterprise founded by local self-government, with the appropriate licence prescribed by Article 112 of the Law", which I have already read. In this respect, Article 224 should delete the part relating to the period of six months. I don't think this is exactly the best example of Serbia's decentralisation and even development. Belgrade's Belgrade headquarters of Belgrade's Belgrade water district. The JP "Serbia" headquarters is again in Belgrade, for all other areas outside the AP, and the territory of the city of Belgrade. The question arises – is there another city? Belgrade will again decide on Serbia, waters and where anyone will manage and maintain water-based facilities, and perhaps, for example, the Great Plan will maintain facilities in the Kolubar County, not a company that has so far owned the facilities and which it has built. Regional systems have special treatment in the use of EU access funds, which will also be disabled in a certain way by this centralisation. JP Kolubara, for example, has just done a study of the justification of the regional system, which is adapted to standards for the use of EU access funds from donors via the Spanish Eptise. As far as the proposal for a forest law is concerned, I consider it to be one of Serbia's most important resources, with high chances of developing many wood-based industries, especially furniture factories and primary processing products. That's exactly what I want to point out. However, it concerns the fact that the prices of troops in Serbia are far above the cost of troops of all countries in the environment. If we add energy prices, electricity prices, which have a significant impact on the final price of the product, then low wages and high productivity, they cannot cancel such high prices and bring the final producers of the wood industry into one, I would say, an unequal position in exports, although design and quality, especially furniture from Serbia, is highly appreciated. Given that it is public enterprises, the state would have to take measures to compare prices to world prices, which would give employment and far greater exports than the current one. I would like to conclude, with one more request, that you consider the findings, suggestions and suggestions that I made in this debate in principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38619	Nine minutes and 40 seconds have been used by the MP's group. The word has a folk MP, Aleksandra Jankovic, followed by MP Radoslav Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38620	The authorised representative of the New Serbia parliamentary group, Mr Srdjan Spasojevic, as well as most opposition MPs, voiced his disdain over this famous parliamentary principle of fusing agenda points, which appears to be behind the Marxist belief in the transition of quantity to quality. Strange, "yellow" and Marxists. I will focus mainly on the organic production law and on some new themes that appear on the Internet, which are present in letters, in messages that we have received from a large number of citizens. There has been almost no agency news released in any domestic media since March 2nd, that the European Commission has approved the cultivation of genetically modified potatoes by the German chemical company Basf. As pointed out, this potato will be used not only for industrial purposes, but also as raw materials for livestock. It is, of course, a precedent that, by many, represents the result of Europe's indulgence before the U.S. attacks to accept genetically modified food. So far, it has been prohibited in Europe to grow genetically modified vegetables because of fears that pollen or seeds could spread uncontrollably. The European Commission has also allowed three types of transgenetic corn to be sold in the EU, but their production is not yet allowed. For the time being, only one species of genetically modified corn MON 810 of the Monsanto company is allowed to grow. This news activated the alarms of all domestic environmentalists and agricultural experts. It especially receives weight if it is known that a new law on genetically modified organisms is under way, which will be in line with European regulations. Most literally translated, soon in Serbia, instead of oasis of healthy food, as authorities have announced, we could expect genetically modified soybeans, corn, potatoes, and perhaps tomatoes, whose effects on human health are still unknown, and in nature's health, as environmentalists claim, catastrophic. The Sunday Telegraph published a text on an anonymous warning, which is spreading at an incredible rate over the Internet, that multinational companies are pressuring our authorities to change the laws and permits of producing and selling genetically modified foods. The warning also says that there is pressure that genetically modified foods are not being marked in the future, which is mandatory in Europe, but not in America, and that all animals are being grown with "Monsant" growth hormones and antibiotics. Especially interesting is Monsant's so-called "Monsant" so-called "Monsant". The terminator of the seed, which is sterile, so the peasant must buy a new one for each sowing. Although such seeds, allegedly under the pressure of the world's public, recently protested in India, the farmers there accused Monsanto of creating a new colonialism. In just half a year, about 700 small farmers were killed in India. To warn experts that genetically modified technology has been under-tested and that it has various adverse consequences in other plants, animals, land, and, consequently, in humans, the response of our Ministry of Agriculture has arrived, which, although tucked into administrative formulations, reveals that the work version of the amendments and the addition of this law is being prepared. The ministry officials forgot that, as long as in September, after the previous law was passed, they swore there would be no change. So what organic production are we discussing today? In a great effort to reach out to the world, especially to America, which announced on the site of its agriculture ministry that America was unhappy with Serbia's position on genetically modified organisms, which is why it will not be able to enter the WTO, our authorities have pledged to pass a new more liberal law. Organic production and healthy food, stories for the local public, and genetically modified organisms, for foreigners who obviously have no alternative. It is obvious that the Ministry of Agriculture is under great pressure because here we are today discussing this famous "neskafa" principle of 14 in one, and we are preparing to impose a new, much more serious package with all rationalization that Serbia is obliged to harmonize its regulations with the European one. Yes, but only when she has pre-accession negotiations in that part. This could also be five years from the date of the SAA's acceptance, which EU representatives have only initialled, but not yet and not even known when they will accept it. In Serbia, however, which legally, which illegally, has already entered genetically modified organisms. First, in 2001, we had an American donation of 50,000 tonnes in genetically modified livestock soybeans, and then smuggling seeds of genetically modified soybeans from Romania and BiH. It has been sown in Machva and Banata for years. Agricultural inspection has partially revealed it, solutions have been made to destroy the field, somewhere it has been done. It was later tolerated, with the soybean being produced lagered in special warehouses and in quantities of 0.5 to 1% added to the production of livestock. The latest information circulated among agricultural experts is that Serbia has several thousand hectares sown genetically modified soybean. It is difficult for these producers to get in the way, because criminal policy is symbolic, says a well-known agro-economyist professor. Shevarlic. He also adds that the capital of multinational campaigns is so powerful that it can buy not only national governments, but international organisations, as this affair with so-called. Mexican flu. We don't know when the effects of the use of food resulting from genetic manipulation will be manifested. The fact that most of its consumers do not yet have visible negative consequences does not mean that some of them do not already exist or that others will not be reported in the second or third generation of successors, warns this professor of the Faculty of Agriculture. So, here comes our Alimentarius Code, what exactly is that code? The Alimentarius Code is a set of rules for the regulation of agriculture and for the full control of food from seeds to final products. I'll try to explain in as simple a way what its application really means. Under the code, no longer need to mark animals that have been genetically modified, which so far has been mandatory. In this way animals will cross, thus destroying the natural potential of existing races, which is the aim of the Code. All vegetables and seeds will be exposed to radiation. It is currently only done in seeds and vegetables, which are long in transport, in order to remain fresh as long as possible. Under the code, it will be mandatory for all vegetables, seeds, animals and meat. By introducing a code, all animals grown for food or milk will have to get monsanto growth hormone and monsanto antibiotics. People will be sick because of the use of genetically modified food. When that happens, there is, of course, a pharmacy that will offer help in the form of its medicines. Almost all natural medicines will be banned and marked as dangerous, and only pharmaceutical products will be allowed. Somebody tell me that chemistry is healthier than natural products, both food and medicine. Natural medicines are competition pharmaceuticals, so that's why they want to end them. Vitamin supplements can only be obtained with a prescription. This code basically prevents and abolishs natural organic warfare. Let's put it all together one more time and pull it together. The Alimentarius Code will give all food control into the hands of pharmaceuticals and Monsanto, as the largest producer of genetically modified foods, and if all black hunches come true, within ten years on shelves in stores we will have only genetically grown food, and organic, ecological and biological no more. The peasants will have to buy seeds from Monsanto every year, and their seed has a built-in gene that prevents further reproduction. The irony is that we may live on average longer, those who are rich, but the quality of life will be even lower than this now, if at all possible, because the diet will be unhealthy and unquality. Chronic illnesses are usually on the rise, so now they're going to increase drastically. That's why there's a pharmacy that's gonna sell us their products, and we spend a good deal of our income on drugs. We are too small a country, unfortunately, still with puppet leadership, that we can defend ourselves against such a world-wide monster organization. If we can't do that already, we can go all the way around these regulations and try to feed on our traditional vegetables, from our seeds and varieties, not to defy anyone but to preserve our children's health and health. It is very clear that all these world lobbyists lobby in one direction only, that at least three billion people, primarily poor people, are removed from this shared planet, so that they can get anything wider and richer, at least that's how they think all the solutions are in it. We can't let that happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38621	The New Serbia parliamentary group has taken advantage of the time available to it. The People's MP Radoslav Milovanovic has the word, and after that, MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38622	Dear Vice-Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, the Honorable Fellow Members and fellow People's MPs, I will talk about the Proposal for a Law on the Forests, as one of the most important laws in this set of laws on the agenda today. Before I start talking about the forest law, I would like to commend the ministry's work, given that practically the Ministry made 31 laws in the previous period, that several very important regulations have been adopted that are useful for the development of agricultural production. In my deep opinion, and since I'm a forest engineer and I'm very professional at talking about this law, I think the proposal for a forest law is very good. The basis for writing forest laws is two things. The first is the National Strategy for Forest Development, which was adopted in 2006, and the second is the Forest Development Plan or the Forest Development Programme for the next ten years, a draft of the programme has been prepared. The basis for the adoption of the forest law is Article 97. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says the Republic of Serbia provides a system for protecting and improving the environment. The woods are in the main place in that system. Agricultural forests also have general benefits, which include environmental protection, conservation of biodiversity, conservation of genocide, production of oxygen, purification of polluted air, prevention of floods, protection of drinking water springs, protection of soil from erosion, creation of favourable conditions for human health, favourable climate impacts, aesthetic function, security of space for recreation, development of ecological and hunting tourism and noise protection. How important oxygen production is best said to produce about four liters of oxygen per square metre of leaves during the 12 hours of daylight. If you know that a man spends an average of 300 liters of oxygen, it takes 80 metres of square leaf surfaces or two to three trees of wood to consume oxygen per man. The importance of forests as natural wealth i.e. parts of the natural marking clearly require binding knowledge of their condition, which is also necessary in the planning and management of forests. The forests in Serbia extend to an area of two million and seven hundred thousand hectares. The noise is 29%. The highest noise capacity has a northern-house and thermal forest economy and is 90%, which is optimal noise. I just came from the municipality of Kučevo, which belongs to this northern-house forest economy. At least he's got a goal area. The ratio of national and private forests in Serbia is 50:50%, in Vojvodina there are only 4% of private forests, 96% of the forest is state-owned. A year's worth of foresters are doing a year's run-in for 39 land units. The new forest law brings, above all, one new responsibility - the introduction of a license for the work of professionals in private forests, which is very important in the forest management system. What burdens forestry today? Insufficient adulthood, first row, then a large percentage of rooted surfaces, an insufficient volume of forested land. The new programme envisions the deforestation of 90,000 hectares and, if optimal levels and increases in production are achieved in the next 50 million cc's of wood mass. The creation of a chamber as a new institution and the establishment of a forest budget fund are subject to additional conditions for improving legal assumptions to protect the promotion of general forest functions. I'd have one suggestion for the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, and it's just about the funds that come out of the forest and forest land fees. In the sense that one part, and my proposal would be to make it 30% of the compensation, be paid back to local self-government and use that part to reconstruct and maintain local roads. First of all, because local roads suffer a lot by exporting forest varieties to local environments and I think that would be one assumption of a return to the local self-government of the part that is practically amortized by works in the forest. This is not a law on which the position and opposition will be politically bickered. This law provides for the conservation of forests by establishing a permanent monitoring of forest conditions and preventing changes in forest and forest land. A unique expert control of forest work is being established, as a unique information system for Serbia's forests. The functional system of financing in forestry, the establishment of a forest budget fund, the optimal model of organisation in private forests, the introduction of licences for performing professional activities and the establishment of a forest chamber, the better health status of forests, the reduced effects of so-called glass gardens, reducing the negative effects of erosion, etc. As MEP, I will support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38623	Six minutes and 50 seconds have been used by the MP's group. The People's MP Zoran Babic has the word, followed by MP Petar Kuntic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38624	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, in the assembly procedure and debate, in this forest of the bill, there were also two very important ones for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia fundamentally, and these are the draft laws on forests and the draft laws on water. The first and very important regret of the SNS parliamentary group refers to the very title of the forest law, because we believe that the title of the law must be the law on forest management. The reason to accept our suggestion, passed through the proposed amendment, is in a declaration from a ministerial conference in St. Petersburg, where the forest law and forest management are discussed. It is pointed out that sustainable exploitation of resources would be rationally important to ensure long-term benefits. Efficient management of resources must have mechanisms to control the use of rights. In most literature, the following is also proved, which I did not really recognise in this bill, in order to create the necessary security and certainty that resources will bring long-term benefits, it is necessary that responsibility for resource management is entrusted to those who are dependent on those resources for living. We also believe that this bill should have a clearer attitude and relationship with ecological, hunting, recreational and Banja tourism. In line with the strategy for the spatial development of the Republic of Serbia and parts of rivers and lakes with coastal, land and areas of orderly nature, excursions, areas of high mountains that are suitable for the editing of ski resorts, ambience, spatial and cultural historical continents, sights, as well as smaller spatial continents with expressed recreational attractive and landscape features can be declared as spaces of importance for tourism development, and are an integral part of areas under forests. As tourism is not in your portfolio, Mr. Minister, this fact points to weak inter-resorial co-operation in the government of the Republic of Serbia. This bill, unfortunately, does not identify and define the Bane forests, nor does it define how to deal with these forests. Bane forests are forests which gravitate the Banj area in an orographic, hydrographic and biological way and represent a significant factor in the conservation and promotion of the Banj area. A significant part of Serbia's tourist offer is spas. But banish visitors do not expect only to taste healing water. On the contrary, their demands are much more complex, which is understandable. The surrounding spa, with other segments of tourist offer, such as forests, park woods, monasterys, excursions, archaeological sites are extremely important in this respect and not only for the state, but also for forestry as a segment of the economy. The protection function of the Bane forests is multiple and that it is both safeguard-regulatory and socio-cultural, with the production function not being excluded. In particular, it is a significant water protection function, i.e. the protection of mineral springs and the provision of clean drinking water. In order to preserve and secure these protective functions, while at the same time enabling economic and environmental rational management of these forests, the Bannian forests should be given a special place within the framework of forest legislation. The benefit in this respect is multiple for private spas that enrich the tourist offer, for forestry and forestry professions, which give opportunity and take the initiative in the tourism area, but also in other areas, where we are unfortunately lagging behind. In Article 15. The proposal for a forest law, Article 2, has been provided for by the Autonomous Region Authority of the Autonomous Province's organisations to which forest monitoring operations are carried out in the territory of the Autonomous Province. The SNS expressed its objections to the Law on the Transfer of Jurisdiction to the AP Vojvodina, both at a press conference and at a debate here in the Republika Srpska Assembly. We believe that one of the responsibilities that has been unnecessarily transferred and the monitoring of the forest, which must be united for the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, is otherwise losing its purpose, as you will admit plant diseases do not know any administrative divisions and borders. You have also defined as a member of 44th a report-diagnose job in the protection of forests, which we also believe must be united at the level of the entire state with a single database. In Article 42, you have defined that the owner and user of the forest is obliged to monitor the impact of biological and abiotic factors on the health status of the forest and take timely measures to protect the forest. If he doesn't, the Ministry will ensure the execution of that obligation on the cost of forest owners. When we know on the other hand that most of the owners of private forests are nursing households, i.e. citizens of Serbia with minimum incomes, and when we know how poor the village is by the impoverished policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia, will the application of this law be just a new imposition and a new financial burden for forest owners? We've got a lot of grudges on our hands. 111, 112 and 113, which define economic crime and sanctions. The fines of 100,000 dinars to 1,000,000 dinars will punish the legal person for economic crime unless he maintains the number and kind of savages at such a level that no biological balance is disrupted. However, there is no question – what will happen, or who will be responsible if a hunting ground is established in the same area, which is not owned by a forest user, but is the user of the hunting site another legal person, and what is said in point 21? Who is more responsible – the beneficiary of the forest or the beneficiary of the hunting grounds? The same question is also at issue for point 22, i.e. whose responsibility is to bring up hunting plans that are not in line with the development plan. Furthermore, again the same question – who is more responsible, the user of the forest or the user of the hunting grounds, if these are two different legal persons? Irregularities are also seen in Article 113 where, in our opinion, a natural person cannot be held responsible because it is not competent to monitor the health condition of the forest and their threat, as well as to monitor the impact of biological and abiotic factors on the health condition of the forest. The punishment of a natural person by these points is extremely disputable, because he doesn't have to and can't know, say, who's putting the garbage away in his forest. I consider the absurd principle that you have introduced by this bill, which is that the owner of the forest is responsible for the damage caused by a third party because he did not prevent the forest that is its property, on forest land and at a distance less than 200 metres away from the third party from disposing of garbage, toxic substances and other hazardous waste. As for the Water Law proposal, I would like to point out a large ecological black spot that, unfortunately for me, is located in the municipality from which I come, which is Vrnjačka Banja, queen of Banja continental tourism, surface glow and charm of the tradition of active tourism for 142 years. However, few know that Vrnjačka Banja has 7,000 connections to the sewerage network, that the lagoon, i.e. the hostage, has been out of operation for years and that annually in West Morava, without any pretretation, is poured out more than a million and 200,000 cubic metres of fecal water. Western Morava, from which only five kilometers downriver our neighbours from Triestenik drink water, belongs to the "A" class of water, although after the inflows of waste water, or feces from Vranjska Banja, the river water in West Moravina corresponds to the standards prescribed for river waters of the second "A" class, and all because there is no pretretman or waste water treatment, so the chemical and bacteriological consumption of oxygen has been increased multiplely. My question for you, Mr. Minister, and for the Government of the Republic of Serbia is – will Vrnjaka Banja be just a place where the main committee is held occasionally or celebrates the Christian glory of the party in power? Ministers come, promise and go, and the problems remain with my citizens in Vrnjačka Banja and neighbors in Trstenik.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38625	Nine minutes and 20 seconds of MP time were used. The word has been given by MP Petar Kuntic, followed by MP Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38626	The President-in-Office, respected ministers with associates, respected MPs, is ahead of us a set of seven important laws for our agriculture and forestry: the proposal for a law on water, a bill on forests, a proposal for a veterinary law, a law on organic production, a law on beer, a law on the recognition of varieties and a law on the implementation of advisory work. We were mostly hearing about the first five during today's debate, and in order not to repeat ourselves, I am now going to talk about the last two draft laws on the recognition of varieties and the implementation of advisory work. As far as the first law is concerned, I believe that the processing of plants, the creation of varieties as an integral part, and ultimately seeding is a great perspective for our agriculture. We in our country have extraordinary research institutes that, regardless of the entrance of large houses into these areas, are still at the same level, if not better in certain segments. The draft law on the recognition of varieties essentially changes the two existing laws that regulate this area, it is the Law on Fruit Material and the Seed Act since 2005, and when we adopt this law in a few days, we will see that we have received one single law instead of these two, that this law is in line with European standards, then, we will have a greater choice of domestic and foreign varieties here and we will have regulation of the production and transport of these varieties. This solution will also affect agricultural producers because they will have a greater choice of varieties with higher yields, better quality and all those standards that will satisfy them, then, the competitiveness of domestic products will increase here and in the world, and also this law will in part stimulate varieties. As regards the draft law on the implementation of advisory activities, i.e. Advisory services, we need to know that until now advisory activities have been carried out through agricultural services, whether they are institutes, institutions, agricultural centres, etc., directly through various seminars, through various counsellings and other activities, and indirectly through various brochures, leaflets, etc. It happened in practice for the same persons to spend half their working hours at a research institute, and the other half of them perform as advisory work, and it turned out well somewhere, it's not. Now this law will change that, since it is evident that there have been a lot of individuals, NGOs, etc. recently involved in this problem. What are the objectives of this law on the provision of advisory services? First and foremost, it is clear that advisory work is defined, then, by persons who can carry out the advisory service. A farm advisory centre will also be established to support the ministry in its planning, as well as to assess the work of advisers. It is very important for our agricultural producers to educate advice on advisory work that will effectively direct the work of these advisory services, and will have that possibility. A licence is introduced and an advisory register is introduced. So there's finally one row in that area. Who will benefit from this law, since some benefits are being spoken of today? Of course, the greatest benefit will be farmers themselves, because we must admit that our agricultural producers know very well the technology of production, now also chemistry and all that they see from each other. But when we look at their agricultural holdings, when we look at their performance indicators of production, I primarily think about the economics and productivity of their production, then at the quality of their products, and in the extreme case of the financial effects of their agricultural land, then at production that will be in line with the environmental law, we think there are a lot of jobs for these advisory services and that finally farmers in our country, as well as in some neighbouring countries, will have the opportunity to use these services. Finally, given that there have been a lot of speeches here today on the large number of laws coming out of the Ministry of Agriculture, I would remind Members of the fact that over 80% of domestic legislation, which should be brought into line with European legislation and European standards on our path to Europe, is actually a solution to the problem in agriculture. It is commendable that this is how the Ministry of Agriculture is active and that it keeps this pace and that step. In any case, our coalition ZES in the voting day will support all these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38627	Seven minutes of MP time has been used. The word has a folk MP, Milica Radovic, and after that, MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38628	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Vice President, the debate so far is in favour of the fact that the laws that were on the agenda today were to be divided into at least a few groups, if we wanted to commit ourselves to each of these laws in a serious way. Agriculture is a very important area which, if happiness were wisdom and, I would say to the mind, should be declared a strategic branch, but since it has not already been, then at least it is necessary for us to give this topic in Parliament a special importance and in a very serious way access to the debate on these laws. In fact, since I have already said that the time at my disposal makes it impossible for me to commit myself to every law, I will limit myself in my debate to the organic production law. It is good that today we are discussing this extremely important law, whose primary goal should be how to get healthier and better quality food, high quality food. In the end, it is also the aim of this law, in addition to the very development of sustainable agriculture and the conservation of the eco-system. Unfortunately, this bill that we are discussing today and which we have the opportunity to see ahead of us is not the happiest solution and it is not a good legal framework to regulate organic production. In addition to his indeterminateness, I'm talking, of course, about the bill itself, there are certain places where he and how he deviates from the principles of organic production itself, but I'm going to say something about that later, when I'm dealing with the law itself. Serbia needs a good organic production law to improve this branch because, as everyone has said so far, it is now the export chance of Serbia. In fact, Serbia has high potential to deal with organic production, and when it comes to the quality of land itself, and when it comes to the use of safeguards used in agriculture, and when ultimately climate conditions are at stake. I think it's very important to point out that we already produce organic apples, organic blackberries, raspberries, blueberries, dried fruit, but the percentage of their production is so small that it's almost negligible. According to the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, out of 4.1 million hectares of farmland in Serbia, only 15,000 hectares are intended for organic production. If we say it now in percentages, then it's 0.37% of the total land in Serbia, which you have to admit is an extremely small number. Should I specifically mention areas that Serbia, for God's sake, has, and these are areas above 400 metres above sea level? Do I especially need to talk about Pester, Vlasini, about the part of Kopalnik, about Javor, about all those geographical points of Serbia that are more than suitable for organic production itself? I have to say, there are old varieties of fruit that are so immune and resistant to plant diseases that they don't deserve it, and in fact, they don't need to be treated at all, and they don't bring it in any way. In particular, I am talking about an apple caker, which is located in eastern and western Serbia, which is extremely important and wanted goods in the markets of Western Europe. I'm saying all this because I want to say how good Serbia is for this kind of production. Organic products occupy only 1% of the global food market. No wonder they're increasingly wanted goods in the world. The conditions for organic production are strict and exactly that and lies the basic reason why the gap between the supply and demand of organic products is so high. I only mention an example of one Germany, which has been involved in organic production since 1990, and since then, they have managed to bring only 3% of their farmland into organic production. And how much they benefited from that small percentage that they were dealing with organic culture is the best fact that the demand for organic products has increased by 30%. In order to obtain a certificate for organic food production, it is necessary to meet a series of strict conditions. First of all, I am talking about European standards, for at least three years it is necessary not to be treated with chemicals, to be completely isolated from the source of pollution and to be irrigated with water that is first and second-quality. Of course, when we talk about these conditions and look at the text of the law that lies before us, there's nothing about these conditions with us. The law is inconclusive when it comes to the very conditions of organic production. The law is also inconclusive in other areas relating to the conditions of carrying out control and certification tasks, which is an extremely important area of this law. The law is bad and for the reason that the minister is given enormous authority. You do not have to deal so closely with the essence of this law to see that almost every member writes – the minister is empowered to regulate the conditions closer, to determine and regulate methods, to determine the duration of the conversion time from conventional to organic production, etc. If this is how the law is written, then it's written either with little knowledge or with bad intentions. I must say that I have a special objection to Article 6 of this bill, which speaks about the principles of organic production, in particular the third principle, where it is said - the principle of strict restriction on the use of chemical synthesised instructions. So it's not about bans, it's about strict restrictions. Gentlemen, if we allow chemical and synthetic inputs to be represented to the least possible extent, then organic production itself has nothing. This provision destroys the essence of this law. If we now look at this text of the law in the context of what my esteemed colleague Aleksandra Jankovic was talking about, and this is about the announced amendments to the Law on genetically modified organisms, then it is clear that the scope of this law will be small or that there will be no positive effects of its application in fact or exist. Serbia is a small country. If we allow a small number of producers to sow genetically modified seeds, it is very likely and certain that in some short time, by pollination, by wind, perhaps even maliciously, it will spread to the entire territory of Serbia and then the question arises – what are we talking about here today? The effects of the use of genetically modified food or as many people call it – Frankenstein food are more than dangerous. A study of the American Academy of Medicine has been conducted that shows that there is a certain risk of health, of course, the study was done in animals treated with genetically modified food, so they are fed, and there is a huge risk of the health of these animals and it is primarily seen in infertility, seen in changes in the main organs, in the digestive tract, in problems with immunity and accelerated age. I am talking about this today because I think it is extremely important that before this law enters the assembly procedure, and it is more than certain that he will enter, and I am expressing to this occasion a legitimate concern that, if this happens, Serbia will face the very bad effects of what happens then. In fact, the effects of applying the organic organic production law itself will be invisible. I am seriously talking about this because we had the opportunity at the US Ministry of Agriculture site to see a document that clearly says that after more pressure from the US authorities, however, they managed to convince Serbian authorities, primarily I think of the Ministry of Agriculture, to amend the GMO law and thus remove any obstacle to Serbia's entry into the WTO. This is very verifiable information. You can go and see for yourself what I'm saying. Of course, I'd like to make a mistake, but I think we'll be facing what I'm saying soon enough. Finally, I must say that the DSS MPs will support any good idea that goes in the direction of improving every legal text, including the organic production law, but this law that we now have ahead of us is not seen as a good intention by the authorities and we do not see it as a possibility to live in the best of our sight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38629	11 minutes and 20 seconds of MP time have been used. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38630	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs and respected citizens of Serbia, I am a graduate agricultural engineer for livestock farming and I am entitled to speak on this subject, and from the aspect of the profession, but also as a folk MP to give some political clarifications and answers to some of the dilemmas we heard in this hall during the discussion. I speak directly to agricultural producers, the breadmakers of the country of Serbia, who some people are persistently afraid of and try to say that DS and the ruling majority are passing laws to ruin agriculture and that I don't know what they're doing. Today, we are passing a set of agriculture laws that will end in 2011 a legislative regulation related to the area of agriculture. Now I'm going to make one parallel with some of the other laws that we've passed in the Assembly that we've been accused of in the most terrifying and monstrous ways. When we said the visas would be lifted by 2010. Some have told us – yes, but you will give Kosovo because of it and what it will do and when it will impose visas and what years it will be, but it will not be in 2010, what we have of it. Today, when I tell you when we pass these laws, we first and foremost pass those laws so that citizens of the country of Serbia, and above all the most valuable part of it, agricultural producers, can export their agricultural products to the world and Europe, some insist on us not doing it out of the most honorable and best intentions. Let me just remind you that the state of Serbia has been granted a permit to export beef and pig meat after 18 years. If someone thinks we're free of a visa overnight and it's not one painful trip that lasted 10 years, they're wrong. If someone thinks someone lifted a ban on exporting pig meat from Serbia overnight, they're also wrong. We have made a major step in the area of agriculture, regardless of how hard agricultural producers are living today, but the Office for Veterans of the Republic of Serbia did not do the job overnight. Before Mr. Zoran Micovic, who sits here and manages this administration perfectly, does not manage by calling him during the night to do so, but has a lot of private practice because the first private veterinarian is not the country of Serbia but the former SFRY. Before he took over to run the administration, Misa Marinkovic led the administration. Misa Marinković is our colleague, a doctor of veterinary science, and he was a doctor of veterinary science at the Institute of Insemination and artificial reproduction of cattle in the Great Plan and made this institution a representative world institution. They are the creators of most of these good laws that have allowed Serbia to export pork after 18 years, both beef and chicken and fish. Someone says, "Well, yes, peasants load bulls up to 1,000 pounds because they have no one to sell it to. Well, they will soon be able to export it to the world market and make contracts with buyers and compete with Serbian products on the world market in a fair match. I will remind you that in the not so long ago, we have had people sitting in this hall as MPs, who were in the leading places in this country in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and then Serbia did not go to the event, but also to Europe and to those events. We kept acting like a sleeping passenger at a train station with four suitcases, such a Serbian taped taper, sleeping at a train station, and then the train comes and goes, and we're running to catch a 250km-an-hour train. That's not how you get on that train. The train is on board by passing laws that are primarily applied in practice. By 2011, we will also end the sub-legal regulation, so that people who live on agriculture and deal with agriculture will be able to compete in a world market match under market conditions. What's more important to say about this law? It depends on these laws that we are passing today, as far as forestry and water industry are concerned, whether we have mastered a civilizational task to manage in a civilized way the resources we have and that they have given us and whether we are willing to leave these resources in service of our generations or we will spend them on our lives. When we talk about organic food and GMOs, where I hear a lot of respects, they're neither American nor German number one in the world right now by genetically modified food, but Chinese. There are a billion and a half of them, and nothing praises them, even though they eat a little genetically modified food. But I'm very careful when it comes to genetically modified food and I'm not going to call on the experiences of China, India, or other countries that are faced with the need to technologically improve knowledge in the area of agriculture in such a way as to achieve the greatest contribution. However, if we talk about the knowledge society, without knowledge in agriculture there is no progress. This is also true of this area of advisory activity in the area of agriculture. No progress, no race with Europe and no world without state and society of knowledge. We have to do a lot to educate our agricultural producers every day, but not just them, but people who do the profession. And we have to provide them with conditions for the game. Only by constant training can we participate in this game. It's like training. Mesa trains every day so she's the best football player in the world. If we train at least as part of the best in the world, we can compete with them. If we don't train, there's nothing to look for. An isolated country, a country that has visas cannot train. Our agricultural producers can go to the world's largest fairs, not to see the world and the metropolis, but to see where science is right now, where sciences are within the area of agricultural production. Speaking of beer laws, only one Serbian history anecdote. When they asked Nikola Pasic, and otherwise, for the sake of Serbian citizens, the brewery produced Nikola Pasic's beer, when they asked Pasic why he didn't pass the beer law, he said -- well, I guess because I don't drink it. I also don't drink beer, but I think it's good that this area is regulated by law and arranged in a thorough and organised way in accordance with European experience, because beer is our great export potential. Whatever you're saying about the privatisation of brewers, all these breweries and day and day work full capacity and these products are excellently exported to countries in the region. We also had criticism of the opposition where some of us referred to the arguments from "The Weekly Telegraph", "The Third Eye", tarot cards, and I don't know what else. I read a lot more cards here on my laptop, so I'm on camera, but it's bad for Parliament, bad for me, but I read a lot more of the law. The law says this. The Law on genetically modified food does not say anywhere that Serbia has given its market to genetically modified food producers for population experiments. Don't scare the citizens that's gonna happen. Serbia is not a guinea pig, nor is it an experimental rabbit on which someone will learn. The government of the Republic of Serbia is very responsible for implementing agrarian policy, very responsible for accessing all newspapers in the area of genetically entrenched food, and there is no concern for the population that we will mutilate and reverse our indigenous varieties – they will produce Kopalnik and continue to apple "skin", the apple "cutter" will be produced; our "mangulica" will be produced, our indigenous race of pigs, but we will still accept what is good in the world and what has proved to be a good example in the world and what has proved useful to their citizens. We're not a small country with puppet leadership, as someone says. We are a small country, with great efforts to catch up with the world, because some other incompetent leadership has left us far behind. Finally, if someone thinks my words are demagogue and they don't have much practice, they wonder what I did in agriculture? I had one of the biggest pig-making farms with my late father. Often, my fellow opposition colleagues honor me for not doing anything in the area of agriculture. I have worked much more not for fame, rewards, recognitions, but for money, as all agricultural producers in Serbia do. I didn't run to the fairs, and when I went, I was winning along with the exposed throats. So it is said in professional language – won by the breeder and he, with his exposed throat, which was in excellent exhibition condition. There's something else I need to tell you. If anyone thinks this is a demagogy, I invite him to come to the valley of the Fishing River in Kruševec, where there are 14,000 cattle at 20 square kilometers – it is the most in Europe. Let's go back to that enthusiasm a little bit and say that it's not all gone down and that it's not all the worst -- let's say that something somewhere is the best. Here in the valley of the Fishing River is best, but it is not best because it happened overnight, but there are people who have joined the Association of Symental Race Breeders, there is a milk producer named Perica Jankovic, the owner of Ekomlek, who is paying milk at the moment 25 dinars, and the best producers are paying 29 dinars. There people have every day the opportunity to sell their milk at the highest prices in Serbia and to have 14,000 cattle, which also win the fair in Novi Sad, and to live on dairy and dairy production. What else do I want to say? When we talk about beef production in Serbia and milk production, people who act like we're sick of chicken blindness here often come out here and we have a memory like that, which only remembers the day before. I also remember people who were in the government at some other time. I remember that at that time a liter of milk was cheaper than a liter of acid water, and I remember that the fuel was also expensive at that time. Not only was it expensive, but it couldn't be bought regularly. I don't remember anyone giving subsidies out of I don't know how many thousands of dinars, now 14,000 per hectare of agricultural farmland, nor do I remember that he's ever been a peasant, and my peasants on his mother's line are all and everyone lives in the country, and all of them from the mountain are sheepmen and they're farming, and for the first time they got 42,000 dinars on their hands and they could invest them in agricultural production. For the first time, they received subsidies in their lives for a drowned bull, and for the first time they charged those subsidies. It's not a dead letter on paper and it's not a demagogue. It's a real life that exists in Serbia. Real life is that agriculture is in crisis and that it's out of date. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: fed bulls up to 1,000 kilos, and there is no one to sell. ) It is true, Mr. Nikolic, that they feed bulls up to 1,000 pounds and there is no one left to sell, but we're going to create conditions that these bulls can go to the market game the moment we lift the ban on beef exports, and we've abolished it. Finally, I have warned several times yesterday, as Mr Dragin today, that every word in this House must be measured because undosed words, difficult words, especially when it comes to agriculture and food production, produce negative consequences for the lives of people in Serbia. We witnessed a difficult and unpleasant situation, that on the side of my friend Peter Kuntic, the Democratic Union of Croats in Vojvodina, was struck by the graphite - a march from Serbia. I have to inform you, after those bile debates, which some have used here, that the police have captured and arrested those attackers, and that is good news for Serbia as well as for Peter Kuntic, but also for future generations. This law is also a good law for Serbia and for future generations, and I will vote for it. So let's return optimism to Serbia, let's not say that everything is black, that we don't say -- let's not sow, don't dig, don't plow, don't reap, don't do anything, just complain. And we take Ceca's "Cuckoo" song as an anthem, so we put the coward down as a party symbol and do nothing. Whoever wants to whine, go home and whine. Whoever wants to work, let them plow in the field and reap. Who knows he's working, a mandate from the Serbian citizens, to lead this country forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38631	13 minutes and 50 seconds of MP time have been used. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38632	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is a nice populist speech. This is how power was conquered by October 5th. Today, power must be won by argument, by knowledge. Mr. Milivoevich, go to the stables where there's no family of yours that gets subsidies. Go see how people hand over drowned milk cows to the slaughterhouse, let at least some dinar get away, because a liter of milk is 18 dinars and is paid after three months, and the milk unit is reduced to 3.8. Go see what a 1,050-pound bull looks like and ask – which farmer in life fed the bull up to 1,050kg, what's it got to do with it? To see how they offer him 1.4 euros a kilo. At one time, four 500 - pound bulls were bought by a tractor, and today it takes eight 1,050 - pound bulls. It's easy to yell passwords here. Go to the villages. Ask the peasant if it's worth it in the barn now that he's got milk cows in the bull barn, what's got sheep? Ask him what he's sown this year and he's expecting a profit? The village is completely ruined, devastated, abandoned, aged, and you're boasting here, giving fire speeches. What kind of fire talk? It belongs to us now, and we don't. We want to take you in peace. Don't light the fire, Mr. Milivoevich, you'll burn in that fire. No government fires, tries to make arguments. I understand you saying it's a crisis, so it's hard to go. I've been listening to representatives of your government who want to hang people who haven't fed cattle, and these people haven't received their salary in four months, and for three years, they've had no work experience. What did you do for people? Don't praise me for what you've done for the cattle. Not for people, not for cattle in Serbia in the last ten years, that's what this is all about. So, maybe you guys on your mother's line know what cattle are. I am fully directed to what is happening in the country today and you know it very well. You come to the villages where I live, and you've seen how these villages live. You saw him sitting on a tractor. There's a 75-year-old man who has to take his driving test today, and they won't let him take his driving test after he's been over the years. Who will drive tractors since the Law came into force – or will the militia shut down, take the peasants off the tractor? Have you seen a young man, especially in Shumadia, drive a tractor – no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. In places where your government representatives are, today he can't pass his driver's exam, today his tractor is going to the technical exam every year. It will draw wood from the forest and have a equipped tractor to pass a technical examination – you play, as if this is the Netherlands, as if this is Belgium. Give these people as much money as they have there, give the workers that they have so much money, give the teachers as much money as they have there, give it to the pensioners, then ask them.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38633	People's MP, replica time has been used. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38634	Mr. Nikolic, I was happy to mention that you might be able to address this topic. Since you can participate in this congregation debate in this way, I invite you to come to me next week - to go together to the Fishing River and see if milk is 18 or 19 dinars or 25; to see if young people of 25 are driving tractors or not driving tractors? I'm not giving you an example of the best. I can come to your village, there are more young people out there, not because of me or you, just people moving out. We can go to Ducalovice, where my grandfather is, and there are no young people there, except for my brother. But let's not put the fire out with gas. Let's not pour out all the bile for the difficulties of living in the country people in power, that the government is guilty and the government, and that it's guilty I don't know who. Let's not tell the demagogue that nothing's wrong and it's all gone. Let's not kill the optimism of people who are determined to live in the country, stay there and professionally come true, that it will fail and that there is nothing wrong. There are people coming back to the country. There are people who are finishing the Faculty of Agriculture right now, and they don't intend to leave the village. There are people who live very well today from agriculture. There are people who have a hard time living from agriculture. There are people who can't buy a new tractor, but let's make conditions together so everyone can buy a tractor. Are conditions made by constantly criticizing everything that nothing is right and that everything has failed? When you say "yellow" and you say "these ones or those ones," to end up giving you a view from agriculture, here's when I see that you're always ready to check out with us from the DS in the election. Come home, break an egg, not expensive, ten dinars cost, mix whites and yellows, no whites, only yellow.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38635	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic, right to replication and this circle of replicas is closed.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38636	If the situation weren't this serious, I might be laughing as much as there is a ghost in you and you're a sordid man, but this is a very serious situation and it's not like the agriculture that feeds this Serbia, the agriculture without which this Serbia does not have, to talk this way and this tone. You think that by really painting public toilets around Belgrade, you have made all of Serbia yellow. You're wrong, my Mr. Milivoevich. We can't fix what you've ruined together. You didn't invite us to fix what we broke. You accused us of ruining everything in 2000, so you took it. How do you spoil what's been broken? I can't get it in my head. How did you ruin what was ruined? You forgot, Mr. Milivojevic, when you were in the Resistance that you didn't think you were serious about what the government was doing and how it should be helped. Now that you're shaking what's wearing under your pants, it seems to you now that we should establish good and normal relationships. No, we'll have the kind of relationship you had with the government when you came to power. I saw then that you were coming to power, only I wasn't scared at all. I don't think you should be scared either. Let those who have ruined Serbia be afraid of the time when you, with your screaming speeches in the Assembly, are exulting this poor hungry and poor people. Agriculture is not good in Serbia, agriculture in Serbia cannot live. And in Vojvodina, where you could live if a man worked 60 to 100 acres, you let the big ones take over to process the country, and the people who really want to work can't do those competitions, on that so-called. auctions at all to get to a country they could process. Unfortunately, Serbia does not live on agriculture, and you know it very well. Otherwise, neither of us would have left the village and come into town or worked as a hatchet or as a porter, or waited on the corner of that day, everyone would have been in the village. What's waiting for him in the village? What kind of house is he waiting for? How many children are there in every village? How are the roads in the village? When's his doctor coming? When are they coming to give him a shot? When's his mailman coming? What's his power quality? For you, the village is the last hole in the play. You are more concerned with the Boulevard of the Revolution, where your members under fictitious companies repair and make asphalts and take huge money. You are more concerned with Nemina, where nearly a billion dinars were taken in the name of subsequent works than a village with only 20 voters. That doesn't exist for you. There's 500 acres of land in there. There are no sheep left to feed and you no longer have meat to export. You don't even have a baby export buffet anymore, you don't have any more food to export. You could go to Russia and sell everything you've got. Tell me, how much? Five ciders of apples or five coolers? They need thousands. Who made that? It's a great honor for you to look at us MPs from those benches, but you haven't done anything for agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38637	The word is made by Minister Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38638	I came forward to clarify some figures since production in Serbia was mentioned. The only production, apart from the dedicated production, or production that the defence industry had, and that it had growth in the past year, and this significant growth of 2%, was agricultural production. Last year, a record surplus was reached in exchange with abroad, both with all countries in total and with the EU. What is particularly important is that in the past two years, the total exports of our country of agricultural products have been significantly increasing that part of exports that occupy intensive cultures or exports of fruits and vegetables, as well as the processing, while reducing in total exports the amount of so-called. Extensive cultures, i.e. they are the most common cereals. As far as production itself is concerned, production has been recorded in the last two years of growth and this serious growth. As for fruit growing, about 5,000 new hectares were planted last year for now. This year, something more is expected, as the Ministry of Agriculture continues to finance up to 10 hectares each seedling certified in the land, and that is what every farmer gets that meets the conditions. As regards subsidies, as the previous debate also mentioned the issue of subsidies, last year, despite the crisis, in Serbia, subsidies were paid in a record time, despite the need to put out the 2008 fire, because we found a hole in the budget of about 12.5 billion. The subsidies were paid completely per hectare last year until September, and everyone knows that, and what I can say is that we're going to try this year to pay off and that this year we increased from 12 to 14 thousand dinars per hectare of that subsidy. For us, one more thing is extremely important, and that is that this year we have managed to extract additional funds for investments in agriculture. So every farmer who wants to expand his production, who wants to invest in its production, to modernise it – there was also mentioning the age of mechanics, it was currently 15 years ago, when I started doing my profession in the political context then the age of mechanization was 30 years – this year if you buy an IMT tractor you will get two thousand euros of feedback, because the domestic tractor, plus 30% more will pay you back from the cost of tractors Ministry if you pass the contest, and there are very exact ways in which these funds are obtained. What's important is that farmers apply for subsidies, and I guarantee that these subsidies will be paid if the procedure is respected. Most importantly, our budget isn't big enough and I agree with all of you that it should be bigger, but until the last dinar exclusively goes to registered agricultural holdings, it means natural persons. As you know, we have big problems with big systems, because we don't give funds to big systems, no money from the agrarian budget can go to big systems because there's not enough funding right now. Maybe one day when there's more, we'll give. It was also mentioned in cattle production. Although there have been problems, of course, with the reduction of the livestock stock, I have been speaking in the last two years because I think I am responsible for this period, the number of cattle is increasing in Serbia. What I'm not happy with, I'm extremely unhappy with the price of milk and I've already said that today. I think a big investment fund has a monopoly on the market and that's why we have problems. Even though the EU has decided this year to abolish milk premiums, we will not do so, as long as we can hold them, we will hold those milk premiums, and we will continue to increase the resources that we give to the throat for genetically improving the racial composition of the herd, because this is the best way to improve production. Production is improved by raising the technology level, reducing the cost of costing and thus allowing the farmer to earn more. Today we're talking about a law on professional services in agriculture. There was very little talk today about the law. On the break we were just commenting that it was far more interested to talk about the law on forests and the law on water, but I would like to say that this is a very important law, because it is a law that will bring much closer to what the government is doing, what scientific institutions are doing and what is currently the latest world knowledge in the area of agriculture, farmers themselves. My team, you see here, has an obligation to spend two days a week on the ground, two men on the team, and to visit at least two municipalities in those two days each day. It's about a hundred municipalities on the monthly level. The goal is to get closer to the people of the regulation, to explain to people how to compete. On this occasion, I would also like to invite all those other local self-governments who have not formed a fund for the development of agriculture and in which we have not yet held such a lecture to apply, to come to people and explain to them how farmers can help themselves, in such a way as to learn how to fill out the forms, how to apply for subsidies and what is the most needed. It is very important, it is almost important that those living in marginal areas, in the east, in southern Serbia, those living in Kosovo do. So much and thank you very much for the good cream for the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38639	The People's Messenger, Milorad Krstin, has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Pavel Marchok.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38640	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministry, I finally get the word, someone who should really get the word, because I stayed in the country, with my family, I do agriculture, unlike some previous speakers who have so many countries that they could fit into a potted pot on their balcony. But, Mr. Minister, let's get back to what we're here for today and you and us. There are seven laws before us now. Let me remind you, in May 2009, I was an opponent of those not 15 laws, but because this set of laws has been converted into one law, we have been given to talk, meaning all parliamentary groups, five hours, for those five hours we have tried in principle, and especially by amendments to contribute to the addition of these laws and legally possible. Now we have before us an amendment to the Veterinary Act. The Veterinary Act was passed in 2005. This is an addition to the law because after the adoption of the Law on Veterinary in the EU, a set of regulations and directives that you, normally Mr Micovic, had to implement. I'll remind you of something I told Dr. Krnjajic in 2005. He said we have three thousand white-haired cows in Vojvodina. You know exactly what "leucous cow" means. Its milk production is zeroed, must not be used. She can only go to the slaughterhouse, into a can like a beef stew. Unfortunately, in the field today, it's quite different. Why am I saying this? Because privates mix, these same white cows buy and, of course, their meat goes to, say, a tea sausage or other semi-products. So that's one of your assignments and you have to check this out on the ground. Then I'll touch your colleagues from the profession which, unfortunately, this reorganisation now has a lot on the ground. Once I've alarmed in my mid-banate district where there's a lot of your colleagues who don't work in veterinary stations, but that's why they work in private, they don't legally respond if they do something wrong to that animal, don't God die, and then they don't pay the country taxes. That's two items I've only mentioned to you. Since the SRS parliamentary group has only 67-68 minutes, and there is a colleague who will report the same as me, I can't speak individually about these seven laws, because I think it's unnecessary to talk about one law for two and a half minutes, but I'm going to touch an important situation on the ground. As far as water law is concerned, it's okay, this law has to come, because realizing the importance of water as an irreplaceable natural resource in the world is changing the approach and attitude towards its use and protection: the protection of water streams, defence protection, that what happened to us is not happening to us, especially to polluters and rigorous punishments towards these polluters, and that what happened to us this year in the central part of Serbia and the past years, when towns were inhabited, for example, between the municipality of Žitište, or Jasa Tomic in the municipality of Secnicaj experienced a flood. What about the recognition of the variety of agricultural plants? I would ask you to remain a little consistent here and to further force our varieties, which are in due time, not to say in the great Yugoslavia, we were recognised as a force, starting with sunflowers, thanks to Professor Škorić, corn seeds, which are now literally being sown around the world, and not only to look at the market as being present as "pionyr", KVS, LS, etc. Since I've already spent five minutes, going back to what's been said and what's being said in the field. Since you know well, as a member of the Committee on Agriculture, that I am also in the north, in Subotica, that I am both in Novi Pazar and in Sjenica, Leskovac, Bor, Negotin, Valjev, and that I do not list now, especially in my Mediterranean district. Minister, there is something you will have to criticise yours, to tell our prime minister Serbia and fellow Finance Minister Dragutinovic. When the 2010 budget was proposed, the SRS tried simply to convince Dragutinovic, the finance minister, and the prime minister, that it should not be allowed not to 6% be allocated from the Republika Srpska budget to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, but to 9% be allocated, thus reduced from the budget, even in 2009 it was more than now in 2010. It seems that the prime minister had no hearing, and it seems that Dragutinović's finance minister did not have hearing and will again appear to be a bad situation for farmers. What I asked you last year when we talked about a set of these laws in May, I'll give you examples again. You know that agriculture is the only branch of the economy that brings surplus to this country, if I'm not mistaken, 600 million dollars and more. The minister corrects me, which I accept. If one branch brings a surplus, I don't see why it gets a deficit in the budget. It is also the opposite for this Serbian agrarian, for the agricultural producer or, now newly registered agricultural land. Why am I saying this? From simple facts – this year it should be sown about 1.4 million hectares of corn. The price of fuel, unfortunately, is again the one that makes the decision, which is the government, the prime minister, which is a hundred percent more expensive, I mean diesel, biodiesel and Euro diesel for the farmer, than in the spring of last year. Another input that will put a little bit more pressure on individual agricultural producers, I don't really know if it's a registered agricultural land, which time to use. The fertilizer is 25,000 dinars a hundred kilos. Very interesting, but that's already more than understandable. Last year, argued, for example, I had to give 200 kilos of sunflower, the parity I had in the field for 100 kilos of artificial fertilizer. I had to give 320 kilos of wheat in 2009. This year, I'm a hundred pounds in a row and I'm a hundred pounds of sunflower. You see what a drastic difference that is, though, in a natural exchange. But from a week ago, now that they're taking a corn-eating device, instead of 105, they give 125 kilograms or 125kg of sunflower. And it's still kind of understandable, since the main importer in this country is MK commercial and he's still dictated, since there's something a little bit involved in Victoria, least of all Delta. Minister, let's see how you can help some more peasants. We've got subsidies, logically it's decided to be 14,000, even if it's small, it's six thousand dinars for artificial fertilizer, when I bring in a fiscal bill. In fact, we'll come to the point that as a landowner, unfortunately, employed here, I don't have the right not only here, but the one who works for 18 grand in some company doesn't have the right to subsidize, and that's where you and I can't agree. You're aware that since last year, we can't agree, and yet, who's to blame? The one who gave 3% instead of 6%, the Ministry of Agriculture. That's the main culprit from the budget. He's the main culprit. If 6% of last year's registered 370,000 would not only get 60,000 subsidies, it would get 150,000, 200 grand and normal praises then go. This way I don't know how to get to it. Let's get back to the subsidies. For fertilizer to get six thousand dinars, I have to get a fiscal bill of nine thousand dinars, from nine thousand to six. This is the material that I received from the secretary of the Committee on Agriculture, where it says this - the amount of money to register mineral fertilisers, for six thousand, should be given an account of nine thousand and more; for four and a half thousand you will get if you bring under nine thousand, eight thousand 999 dinars. Believe me, when a agricultural producer in the spring has to pay for artificial fertilizer, seeds and diesel, he has to sell or roll, a garter, everything depends on how many surfaces there are, future crops, or he'll have to sell something, that's that stock of big cattle, I mean, like a bull, give God a pig, if there's more, to realize what he's got to do right now. But there is one additional problem, Minister. Now you are wanted, at least what we have knowledge of from the field, especially when you go to a NAP gas station and say this – for diesel fuel four thousand bills to submit, the fiscal account until 22 February 2010 is submitted only to him. This is why I ask the question just so that now many agricultural producers who are looking at this, although they should, most of them may, since the cold weather and these rainfalls, I don't believe they started to sow or the small percentage started, to explain to me, need a fiscal cut and a cash account after 22 February 2010. I'm talking about the nap gas stations explaining to the agricultural producers when they come for diesel. This is an additional problem for the agricultural producer to receive subsidies. The additional problem you have to see somehow, is that that fiscal slice or account is enough that he doesn't have to retroactively look, because when he was taking, let's say after that 22 February, if that's true, no one told him to take this cash account besides fiscal. There's a big problem. You ministers must save him. It's a problem where I don't think many registered agricultural holdings will forgive you for this. It's mine, I apologize, to provoke you, and you'll explain it to me and tell me that they hear it, and that many people know that what it says and what it says at gas stations isn't true, but that there's a special regulation that you're going to make or you should have it. I know the Vojvodina Union has insisted with you, Minister, that it is not going to be 9,000 to get 6 grand for an artificial fertilizer subsidy, but to go six for six. I've been waiting for that regulation, I haven't seen it yet. Make it nine grand for those six grand, just don't cut people down. For now, the situation is what it is. We have, Mr. Minister, just one reminder. I have to tell you the situation when we're talking about anti-urban stations, the situation is alarming. There are no anti-grade missiles as promised to those anti-urban stations. Then I also told you on the Committee on Agriculture, one of your associates, to put that Milutinovic there, who is in charge of those anti-urban stations. Isn't it enough that what's done the weather now, some anti-urban stations don't have anti-urban missiles, and when, God forbid, there's a storm coming in, anti-urban missiles can't work because they're not in the field. That's where you have to help. He's got the resources. That's how much he can find. In the report we have exactly as far as I know, you have to help people, we can't do this anymore. I'd like to use four or five more minutes to ask you what I asked you to do in May. Once again, please - don't let me, especially think of the prime minister, the Minister of Trade and the Ministry of Agriculture, that we only have the price of agricultural products at the moment when the combines enter the fields. Don't let this happen for a reason, knowing that you don't have something to do for now, which is that you have to sit down with the mill-processing industry and say, gentlemen, you can't dictate to producers the price of wheat, you can't have the Union of Oil to make a decision that will be the price of sunflowers and you can't let those owners of the freezer decide which will be the price of raspberries, cherry, apples, plums, etc. It's up to you to bring it to an end. Then I'm convinced we'll have an even better situation in agriculture. The agricultural producer is simply asking for the value of his work, and the work is only valued through the price and he is no longer looking for anything. It won't be hard for him to pay the fertilizer, which is now eligible for prices, because it's now one plant of four thousand dinars, it won't be hard for him to have the price of diesel this big, if he knows he'll have the right price for his final product. That's all the agricultural producer wants, what he invested, what he put out, at least the minimum will be above zero. Anything that happens on a positive zero to a agricultural producer is harder. One more thing to tell you, when I've talked about it in my time, let's call it, the agrarian mafia, I can tell you that many people have realized that in certain municipalities there are really a lot of acres of land left that are not leased and I think you're getting there well and you're already slowly sanctioning it. I'm talking about the Middle Ban County, we're talking about Zrenjanin, I'm talking about Zitist, I'm talking about Secnje, I'm talking about New Montenegro, as Mr. Jelačić says – New Nigger never says. It's obvious that's where it gets in the way. Don't misread this, which I asked you to give me some facts, specifically around this elevator, because it's interesting, that the bosses or bosses of gas stations or farmers come to us, not to say, to the house or, when I'm lucky, ask me, is it, what about February 22nd, and what about after February 22nd? I tell them, I have no idea. I don't know about computers. I don't know who to ask. That is why I have now taken the opportunity to ask you – why, how, why or do we really have that definition by February 22, 2010, and since February 22, we have another definition? Just to explain this and there won't be any problems, I believe. Not to take any more time, really, I mean, and my colleagues remind me a little bit, I apologize, but thank you. I hope I get an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38641	The used time is 19 minutes and 30 seconds. The word is made by Minister Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38642	First of all, to thank Mr. Kristin. His presentations are always interesting. I'd just like a few things to comment on and, of course, give answers to the questions asked. The first thing is, if I'm not mistaken, for the leukosis of cattle. You said that farmers have great costs, because they have to slaughter light-headed cows and that it's an unsustainable cost to them. I just wanted to meet you that according to this year's work plan of the Veterinary Authority, the Veterinary Authority pays 100% of the cost of removing ill throats. The state covers 100 percent of the cost of leukosis patients' throats. It's very simple. The farmer has zero percent of the cost, because the state covers 100% of the cost. The next finding is that the 2010 budget is less than 2009. It's simply not true, because in 2009, and you know, we talked about it, it was 2.2%, this year it's 3.1%. It's bigger by about 25% of the circus, along with its own incomes that have been increased, above all, by what you said, more up-to-date by issuing state agricultural land. I would just like to remind myself that since 2005, when it started unorganised, later organised issue of state land, until the start of work of this administration, only three billion dinars have entered Serbia's budget based on the issue of state land. Since the start of this administration, just in a year, for 2009, it's been three billion and 900 million. Also, I would like to mention that before this administration arrived, no court proceedings were brought against illegal holders of state land. But that's a question for some other organs. As for the financing of spring seed, you know that through the product market we offered the market 300,000 tonnes of mineral fertilizer, nitrogen mineral fertilizer – ana, canoe, ju-er-it, in such a way that the first to sell 300,000 tonnes until it is met, the Ministry finances every ton of 5,000 dinars. Farmers choose who they buy from. There were several companies, both state and private, and importers and producers. All of this led to all of them rushing to take down prices by about 15%, and eventually the price was down, so that their fertilizer would go into that 15%, and with those 5,000 dinars, it was about 20% lower than anywhere in Europe, and I can proudly say that in Serbia this year the price of mineral fertilizer, which Mr. Krstin also knows and confirms, is 20% lower than anywhere in Europe. The next thing you know, it's about the price of the seed. You all know the price of corn seeds this year is considerably cheaper. We had a serious conversation with corn seed producers, and we asked them, because it's state-owned companies, to knock down the price, and we can influence that, and they knocked down the price very clearly, and then the other distributors, because they were afraid they weren't going to sell, and they were going to knock down the prices. That's why it's cheaper. As for the price of diesel, you know I have absolutely no jurisdiction over it, so I can't talk about it. You know that NIS is no longer owned by the state. Unfortunately, it is now, in some other way, creating a price. As far as anti-urban protection is concerned, I think I've already spoken ten times in parliament. It's not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture. Once again: it is not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture. You know very well that's within RHMZ's jurisdiction. My personal opinion on anti-urban protection is that this should be a different matter. First of all, it would be cheaper for the state to have two planes asking that question, and in such a way they solved it by throwing silver nitrates out of the plane. If there's any understanding in any reasonable time for the army to take over, I'd be very happy, but that's my personal opinion and my personal opinion. So the Ministry doesn't have jurisdiction over that. What we're in charge of, it's for the insurance against the damage the city brings. The ministry is funding 40% of the premium, which means that half of the security department is paying and it's really cheap. I would once again invite all farmers to secure their harvest from the damage the city inflicts, because in such a way they protect themselves and in the first city every penny of that premium is worth it. Again now we come to our favorite theme. Every time Mr. Christin and I talk, we talk about price formation. I always tell him when he tells me – you need to set the price before it's a ransom. I tell him -- dear Mr. Krstin, if I knew what the price would be on the ransom, I wouldn't sit here and receive the salary I receive, but I'd be in Chicago on the stock market making billions. Unfortunately, the prices of agricultural products, since the disappearance of the eastern block, have been formed on the world market, on the global stock market. Unfortunately, we can't influence them. Taking into account that the trade in agricultural products is free and that agricultural products cross the border in such a way as not to be charged by certain customs duties, but only to control the quality, we cannot influence it, and thus the role of the stock reserves is reduced. As you know, in most EU countries stock reserves do not exist as such, but are called market intervention agencies. However, what I can say is that the Ministry has given significant attention to each other's problems, which is importing products that are of dubious quality. Every time you have a good quality, there's a high price everywhere in the world. If you have bad quality, the price is bad. The best role of the ministry here is seen in the prices of pig-sportsmen. We have had a very rigorous control of imports and the quality of pig's cargo since the beginning of this administration. Then a few months ago, an action began again to detect illegal imports from the south of our country. We've noticed that the price of the tollboys is dropping, which means something's going on. We can see it's not legal. The moment you were discovered, you so-called. rat channels, when they hit those people, we also sharpened imports by banning meat imports that have been frozen for more than six months. The price of the tollboys has gone back over 120 dinars for the live scale. So what we can influence - we influence. To what we can't just can't and that's it. About the billing and that stuff for the hectare subsidy. Last year, in order to get a regress of four thousand dinars for diesel, you had to bring in six thousand dinars of bills. Right? That's right. This year, when you get six grand, you have to bring in nine thousand bills. It's the same relationship as last year, but the subsidy went up, the relationship remained the same. It's very simple. Why do you do it that way? Because I'm not going to make a farmer use less fertilizer to get more money, but I want to get him to use more fertilizer, because when he uses more fertilizer, when he uses the declared seed, when he does all the agrotechnical measures, he gets a bigger contribution. When you get more money, you're more profitable and you make more money, which is in everyone's best interest to make the farmer more money. Right? As for the diesel bill, you said one very good thing, what the pumps told you. He says, "How am I supposed to sell to farmers now, since when do I need cash?" That's exactly the problem because the pumps are going to trade in accounts. I think I was just talking to Mr. Per about it a few months ago. If you remember, Mr. Pero, we had some gas stations trading accounts, farmers selling for 10% of the account value. That's why we introduced that he has to and the cash bill. But in order not to damage farmers, we said like this, you have to add a cash account to fiscal account from the moment this regulation came into force, you know that this year we're admitting last year's fiscal accounts, which we don't need, because we don't want to damage farmers. You can't ask for something they didn't know about, so you can ask for it. But when they read the regulation, when the regulation was passed, in the future, please, you must bring in a cash account. Why? Because pumps, let me put it that way, don't give a shit. This way, when he sells the fiscal bill, he can say – I didn't sell it to him, the farmer dug it out of the garbage can at the pump, found it outside, on the street account, and then attached it. The fiscal account doesn't write a name, but in cash it writes a name, and it says who the farmer is and writes the name of the pumper who betrayed it, so it won't happen anymore, because now the name and last name knows who's betrayed and who's received the bill, and that's how we prevent manipulations and malfeasances, because we all know that there's been a trade in accounts. Of course, in order not to damage farmers, we will not go backwards, but only from the day of the regulation to the advance. I think that was about a very exhaustive answer. Thank you for all the support you provide to our land management around the country. As you know, in Zrenjanin we found about 8,000 acres of new ones that are being betrayed in a few places, we all know we talked about it. We're trying to do this job as much as we can. It would probably be even better and even stronger if we had more resources and equipped it with new computers and more people working there. As far as we're concerned, we're working as hard as we can. I can tell you that there's no case that's not sued in time, no case that's been missed in any way, and it just has to be paid. Thank you to all MPs who voted last year to amend the Agricultural Land Act because it allowed us that now that we're issuing state land, you have to pay first, and only then do you sign a contract and there won't be any more problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38643	Mr. Pavel Marchok has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38644	I would first like to welcome the minister and his team and that I cannot express the satisfaction and joy of the diligence and insight of this team that is here. It's not just a declarative pawnage and a story of working on the ground, but we can see a mirror of work here, such a big team, and I hear from farmers that such teams are also going through Serbia. Once again, I would like to thank you and support you in your industriousness and working with the farmers. It should be said that honey and milk may never flow in agriculture, but it cannot be mentioned that today farmers, farmers, have one of the largest, in fact the largest budget for agriculture, have the largest subsidies for agriculture. I have to say I come from an urban environment, but where you live and from agriculture. This way, I would also like to convey the greetings of the club and the meetings of farmers who welcome the Ministry and I can say from one such final meeting that they have expressed great satisfaction and great interest in subsidies and promotional measures in agriculture, and to buy machinery, and that they have the will and desire to see you and also now I am sending you a call to visit our environment. In short, I'd like to refer to one law that may have been least mentioned in today's session, it's about beer law. This law is proposed because of the importance of regulation and the importance this area has in agriculture. There has been no law in the Republic of Serbia so far that regulates the area of beer production, quality and quality control of raw materials used in beer production, and packaging, declarations and marketing. Considering that, by volume of production and transport of beer is equal to mineral waters and refreshing non-alcoholic beverages, as well as that because of the percentage of alcohol in itself, the presence of carbon dioxide, the specific refreshing taste, the beer product that is consumed throughout the year, it is clear that its production, quality, packaging, declaration and placing on the market should be arranged in a comprehensive and modern manner. There are a total of ten large beer producers in the Republic of Serbia that are constantly slightly increasing production from 500m litres in 2002 to 650m litres in 2008. Imports of beer from other countries are about 16.5 million litres a year, and should also be said, which is interesting, that in recent years an increase in the number of so-calleds has been observed. mini brewers, entrepreneurs who do beer production. For these very reasons, I would like to say about this law and to refer to the beer law and the homogeneous aspect. I must say, I come from the middle and the community that has two hops of hop in its coat of arms. As it says here in the law of the definition of hops, hops are products obtained from the pine plant humulus lupus. I have to say that thanks to the Humulus lupulus, I can proudly say that my environment and the municipality of Backi Petrovac and the surroundings of 1900 had more private cars than Belgrade, in the 20s of the last century it had a private thermal power plant and was one of the European hubs of hop production. I have to say this as a debt to the next generation and as a debt to those who haven't felt debt to the next generation and given that the beer production process itself is completely undefined and legally unregulated, as well as considering that beer is one of the products whose production volume is gradually increasing, there are clear reasons for the uniform arrangement of the entire area. Based on that fact, beer production imposed the need for the adoption of beer law, with precisely defined production and transport conditions in the RS. In this way, beer producers, legal entities and entrepreneurs will have prescribed rules of production of beer, quality of raw materials, finished products, transport, packaging and declaration, as well as a defined procedure of control, production and transport, with a tendency for consumers to obtain the product an adequate declaration. I have to commend this law that was necessary and I have to say that 15 or 20 years ago they passed similar laws to these and that if they had provided subsidies like we have today for the fruits of hops, maybe the hops in my midst would have been much higher. However, I must say that these two starting points, such as the law and the subsidies of seedlings, represent a long-awaited stream of hope for hops. In the end, I want to say that the ZES Group will support this law, as well as all other laws that are on the agenda today. I thank you once again for the efficiency of the work, since it is known that this ministry has in the last two years passed over 20 laws and I believe and I am sure that you will continue this way with our support.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38645	Eight minutes, with notice that the laws are passed by the Assembly. The Ministry and the government are proposing. Of course, we understand each other. Mr. Otto Kishmarton has the word. You have 16 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38646	Dear fellow MPs, now that we've solved all the problems in Serbia, got out of the crisis, started mass employment, recovered agriculture, we can move on to beer. Beer is one of mankind's oldest drinks. The beer has followed mankind throughout its perilous history. The production and consumption of beer in our country is even with the consumption of mineral water and non-alcoholic beverages. Beer is consumed all year round, slightly more flying. It's almost in all the households. Unfortunately, it's also in the streets, in the squares where the children drink it. Beer has been a means of refreshing and enjoying, but also food and medicine for those who know how to consume it. In most European countries beer is marked as a food product and is often called liquid bread. With us beer is classified as alcoholic beverages. In Serbia over 80 liters of beer per capita is 160 bottles of half a litre. Beers drink young and old, drink rich, drink poor. It is very important because of the large and wide consumption of beer by law to regulate, primarily because of the health of the population, production, quality of raw materials, quality of finished products, packaging, declaration and conditions of storage of raw materials and finished products, as well as the conditions of placing on the market. If a lot of beer is spent and spent, at least it's safe for the citizens. Serbia has 10 large brewers and more small so-called mini brewery. In my opinion, the most important thing for this beer law is that the finished product, i.e. the bottled beer that enters our citizens' homes, is quality, fresh, because beer is a daily drink and health is absolutely correct and there is no compromise. For all these reasons, it is important by law to define the conditions of production and transport of beer, quality of raw materials and quality of finished products. Dear MPs, the SNS has submitted several proposals to amend the bill on beer and, in the interest of Serbian citizens, to amend certain members of the law. As for the production and filling of beer, we tried to facilitate entrepreneurs, i.e. mini brewers, to continue to participate in the production and filling of beer and to meet only the conditions they need for their production. Entrepreneurs should be allowed only to be engaged in the production of beer and others only by bottled import or domestic beer. One who deals with bottled beer does not have to meet the conditions for production and vice versa, as set out in the bill. The idea is that businesses, i.e. entrepreneurs, should not be obliged to meet the conditions regarding non-necessary premises. Next, I don't think mini brewers need to have an employee with a college degree. The largest number of small producers, primarily mini brewers, cannot be met for financial reasons. Small brewers opened by entrepreneurs have small and occasional production, so for technological reasons they do not need permanent professionals, but can hire them as necessary, as appointed and responsible persons, as the practice in the world. The imposition of the obligation would lead to the closure of a mini brewery, which certainly is not the goal of this country, but may be in the interest of large brewers owned by foreign governments. As regards the bottle of domestic and import beer, this should also enable entrepreneurs who meet the conditions for filling and declaring, and are entered in the court register for performing these tasks. By prescribing that loading in the original packaging can only be made by manufacturers, it is possible to create a monopoly of a small number of large manufacturers, which have the capacity to fill beer from other manufacturers and imported beer. At the same time, it would lead to the closure of already existing beer loaders. To repeat, the most important thing is that beer that comes to consumers is extra quality, healthy proper, so that those who know how to drink beer can enjoy it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38647	Eight minutes and 10 seconds. Thank you, Mr. Kishmarton. The word is Mr. Mikhailo Puric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38648	Dear President, Mr Minister, the honourable representatives of the Ministry, the honourable fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we have before us a set of extremely significant laws from the area of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. In my presentation, I will talk about the proposal for three laws, first of all the proposal for a forest law, and first of all I want to say that in Article 1. The proposal for a forest law is governed by the preservation and protection, planning, cultivation and use of forests, the availability of forests, forest land, supervision of law enforcement, as well as other issues relevant to forests and forest land. The draft law provides for a condition for sustainable forest and forest land management, as well as for the good of general interest, in the manner and extent to which their production capacity is maintained and improved, biodiversity, the ability to restore forests, as well as their vitality and increased forest potential, with the mitigation of climate change. We must say that forests have enormous importance, both in ecological and social terms. The basic reason for the adoption of this law is the unsatisfactory state of the forest fund, as well as the urgent need to create legal assumptions for its better essential protection and improvement, while at the same time the multi-purpose use and evaluation of so far devoid of numerous forest functions. The situation in forests is characterised by an insufficient production fund, an insufficient age structure, unsatisfactory growth and noise, an unfavourable component state, i.e. a high participation of the components of the interrupted assembly and the rooted surfaces, as well as the unsatisfactory health status of the forest. If we start from the current state of forest and forestry in the Republic of Serbia, we will see that solutions are needed in the forest law. The area under the forests in the Republic of Serbia is 2,252,400 hectares, or 29.1% of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, 53% of which is owned by the state and 47% owned by private property. We had opportunities today when the minister said that we heard that the situation in the EU is about 33% of the country's noise. The spacious plan of the Republic of Serbia drew a noise of about 41%, which is very significant. What I would like to point out is, above all, in Article 4 of the proposed law, the preservation, protection and improvement of the forest status, the use of all forest potentials, as well as the rise of new forests in order to achieve optimal noise, spatial layout and the structure of the forest fund in the Republic of Serbia, which are works of general interest. The same article defines a way of achieving the general interest which is provided by a series of measures prescribed by the forest law. The change in the purpose of the forest shall be carried out under particularly prescribed conditions, with the payment of compensation by the legal person on whose request the change is made to the purpose of the forest. What I would like to point out is a very important part of the bill's proposal on the planning and drafting of planning documents, which are primarily defined by Article 19 of the proposed forest law, which defines a programme for the development of forestry in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The development programme is a basic strategic document setting out the development of forests and forestry with an action plan for its implementation. The realisation of projections from the development programme of the Republic of Serbia's forestry as shown in the Bill's proposal for a 10-year period can achieve significant ecological, economic and social effects, and the following effects can be cited as most important: greater biological stability and better health status of the forest, new forest areas achieved by foresting unprocessed land to about 90,000 hectares, reducing the greenhouse effect, reducing the negative effects of erosion and gliding, water accumulation, as well as protecting and increasing yields in agriculture. The next effect that is very significant is the reduction of the negative effects of polluting emissions of harmful gases, the return of indigenous species of trees to their former natural habitats, more effective environmental protection, preservation and increase the diversity of areas. The proposal for a law or development programme as a sectoral sustainable forest development programme for the implementation of the national sustainable development strategy for natural and renewable resources is significant. The solutions offered in the Forest Law proposal are very important and affect each citizen of the Republic of Serbia, but also allow for the full transparency of the sector in the exercise of public interest in the public and its interest in meeting all of these functions provided by the forest. In the next period, we will define an action programme for sustainable development of Serbia's forests from 2011 to 2012. The action programme is very important and it will very much define how and how best to manage forests, because it is an inexhaustible resource for the Republic of Serbia, and above all it is very important because of the sustainable development of the Republic of Serbia. The next thing we want to pay attention to is a bill on the recognition of agricultural plant variety. The draft law regulates the conditions and procedures for the recognition of varieties of agricultural plants, the registration of varieties of agricultural plants in the register of varieties of agricultural plants, as well as the maintenance of varieties of agricultural plants. All documents implementing this law will be unique, and the entire process of recognition of the variety will be carried out according to the unique norms defined by this law. I would like to point out that the adoption of this law enables manufacturers in a unique way to exercise their rights in the process of recognising the variety. This law ensures that only varieties of agricultural plants whose productive and useful values have been examined can be found after entering the register of agricultural plant varieties in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. This leads to the possibility that only varieties which have been identified as having an appropriate use and production value may be obtained by the manufacturer or the user of the variety. That's very significant. Article 4 of the proposed law defines that the process of recognising the variety determines its quality and essential production characteristics, as well as the diversity, uniformity and stability of the variety, on which the variety can be recognised and the seeds and fruit material of the variety are placed on the market as varieties in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which is extremely significant. The legislation adopted will primarily affect agricultural producers, as the legislation will allow access to a large number of varieties of agricultural plants with better production and technology properties, greater yields and greater resistance to diseases and pests. This would increase the competitiveness of domestic products on the world market, as well as the revenues of producers. The law will act incentivically on the creators of new varieties because they will have the interest to include as many varieties as possible in the process of recognising varieties so that recognised varieties can be entered in the register of varieties, and thus seed and fruit material of varieties would be found in the production traffic in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. What is more important in the set of these laws that we have today in the debate in principle is, above all, the proposal for an organic production law, and I would like to point out that this law regulates the production of agricultural and other products by means of organic production methods, objectives and principles of organic production, certification, control of the application of the law, processing, marking, storage, transport, import and export of organic products. This law allows for higher quality products, as well as consumer protection. Conditions are being created for the full momentum of the development of organic production, with major effects on society and economic development of the village, especially in the area of interest in nature protection, with a major contribution to reducing pollution from agriculture. Legal regulation of organic production will also help develop tourism and catering based on organic production of organic products. Organic agricultural production is basically a complete production management system that promotes and increases biodiversity, biological cycle and biological activity of the country. In Serbia, in the 1990s, the first producers of organic products have officially appeared. From the time mentioned to today, the trend in organic food production is growing. Due to the growth in demand for organic products, both in the world and in our country, more and more producers are starting to deal with organic production because the motto of the organic system is the production of food on uncontaminated land, health security, and all in the interest of citizens who use it for food. Today, the quality of food is measured by its impact on health, and the use of organically produced foods is defined by a higher standard of living. Serbia's land compared to EU land is of better quality because it is not polluted by heavy metals and organic pollutants. The fact that more than 80% of the land in Serbia belongs to unpolluted land speaks enough to the opponents for this type of production. The need to pass this law stems from the fact that the production of organic products represents a great export opportunity for the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, production methods, organic processing rules must be adapted to EU law. Article 4 of the proposed law lays down incentive measures for the development and improvement of organic production. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, the NGO sector, chambers of commerce, local self-government will strongly encourage farmers to engage in organic production to a greater extent. The most significant measure is the provision of this law setting out incentive measures for the development and improvement of organic production through which agricultural producers are to be subsidised during the conversion period, i.e. from inorganic to organic production. Dear colleagues, respected representatives of the ministry, the DS will vote on a set of these laws in the day of voting because they greatly improve the situation in agriculture, as this is the basis and basis for the adoption of the law to improve the situation in agriculture and for this resource, which is the advantage of the Serbian state, to make the most of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38649	It's been used 10 minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The word is Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38650	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen who have come to support the Ministry's law, I must say that between 12 which is a convention, which is system law, in a race of two and a half minutes under such a large system law, I really didn't want to participate, and that's why I've defined myself as talking about only one law, which I see not many have mentioned today. As far as I'm concerned, this is the first time we've talked about him this way. It's a law to amend and supplement the Veterinary Act. This new law, i.e. these amendments and additions, purposely I say a new law because with 30 changes it could be a new law, it was not long in the procedure, it was at a public hearing, but it was able to get a few new names, such as a list of all that the minister in charge had to approve, prescribe, conditions and arrangements or amendments and supplementation of increasing the authority of the Secretary of Resentor, who, however, once upon a time studied a veterinary certificate, which he did not finish, but only in this part of these changes did he get 33 new competencies. I can tell you who they are. So, from the moment this Krnjaić law was passed, it was 2005, it proved to be very bad. In fact, the fact that it was bad was shown in that it was unspeakable and proved to be deliberately unspeakable, because the lobby behind this law had to profit from it, which it certainly did, but did not profit from either the profession or the public health of Serbian citizens. It is very clear that the professional public expected that amendments and additions of laws would go quickly and would go in a completely different direction, in fact towards fundamental changes in the law, but the law itself has actually changed to agree, on the one hand, with directives and EU legislation, and, on the other hand, with our laws that have been passed, such as the - Food Safety Act, the Law on Animal Planning and Construction. In addition, the promoter also offers several language changes that the profession at least says did not contribute to clarifying those basic concepts, but even more complicated those expressions. I'll use some here. So, the Veterinary Authority seems to have lost sight and control of the veterinary profession. It is right now that it is pushing the profession somewhere, and the public health of Serbian citizens is at stake. An example of that is, let's say, what's privatized somewhere around 95%, and even more, so far, veterinary cells. My number says it's about 260. Generally, the consortiums that bought these veterinary cells push veterinarians, i.e. the profession and on the other side of the veterinary station towards an easy profit, fast earnings, capital insemination, but not in the direction of a more quality profession, nor in the direction of public health for Serbian citizens, which should be raised to a higher level. In article 53, you state that there are some public veterinary stations, so please answer me – how many such public veterinary stations do we currently have in Serbia, what are the veterinary stations and how are they left without being privatised? Just 'cause I know about one. There's a powerful man behind it, the godfather of a powerful man, to be precise, but I'd like you to tell me if I'm right about there being others. At this point, various lobbies are harassing the area of the wind. Some of them are also at the Veterans Authority. I ask the minister to call me to say who these people are, because I will not, like my colleague Zoran Nikolic, hesitate to say it. If I've managed to call him mosquitoes, ticks and ambrosia for a year, I'll be ready to be called by a public prosecutor to give him the names of these people. If I were right, that the cattle lobby was behind this law, Krnjaiæ's and today's, is that it is such a legal provision – that farms can establish their own veterinary services in which one veterinarian will work with a license, plus technicians, who you have given the opportunity to perform the entire veterinary practice of the maltene. They'll control themselves, they'll make their own decisions. This is completely inappropriate and raises the public health of Serbia, the public health of Serbian citizens, and on the other hand raises the issue of exports – because after these things, no one will be in a position to buy our products. Because, I'm sorry, food production is part of an organized world system and things like that don't get tolerated. What does it look like in practice, gentlemen? Let's say Delta Agrar, where veterinarians don't get into it, has 700 throats in it, but in five years, no single death has been reported. It's a miracle for Ginis and it would be good – if we had a little bit of a deal with it, so you could answer me if that's possible, because science says that 1.5% of death is something that's perfectly normal? The Ministry of Agriculture, apparently, sees the Department of Veterans as a foreign body and does not see a very specific position of this administration, which should correspond between the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Ecology. It's something that's precious and should be paid attention, not pushing the waist on the margins. It is also very important to comment – that the professional public expected that changes would go towards improving the position of the Serbian Veterinary Chamber. In fact, when you have one of these situations in practice, then you only have a veterinary chamber that you can view as someone who will defend professional principles and who will ultimately defend the profession. First of all, Krnjaić's law puts that veterinary chamber in a completely subordinate position, in fact under the patronate of the state, and now you, instead of fixing it, are saying that thing to the end in the same way as solved, that the chamber should actually be a partner and a state body. She's neither a para-state nor a state body. She's a professional association. Please, since you are a veterinarian by your profession, Mr. Micovic, to see if it is possible for the veterinary chamber to repair its position or should it remain under the State's patronage? You felt that the Chamber should be left in that position, which is understandable to me, because it suits the state, but therefore you replaced the Serbian word "tracking" with the nonexistent word in Serbian "traceability". In Serbian, there is a verb to follow and follow someone, but there is no "sequence". Please check, so accept the amendment we submitted here. What else is there to look at? It is a programme of preventive measures to protect animal health. Contracting obligations for the implementation of this programme say – that the service is charged, the measure itself is not charged, while the service is charged. What's the service in this part of the job - it's your stable sheets, it's your stamps, it's similar stuff. The veterinary inspection, however, prevents veterinary cells, which carry out this programme of measures, from charging their services. He's blackmailing them that they won't be able to get to implement the measure program if they charge this favor. It's not right at all, because this is a prevention, it's mandatory and it has to be the way it is – so it has to be implemented preventively. Then what do you think, to answer me – does and in whose interest does the veterinary inspection do this work in this way? Well, of course, gray zones, because tracking work, that is, the work of the preventive measures program, needs to get someone from some lobby who's going to be semi-criminally involved. Where's the interest of the profession – it's gone? Where is the interest of the citizens of Serbia – it is not there, gentlemen? The current director of the Veterinary Administration, Mr. Micovic, who is just chatting as I speak, spoke very often about this until he came to this place. I remember his statements concerning the marketing of veterinary medicinal products, and besides the livestock lobby and this pharmaceutical lobby of veterinary medicinal products is very powerful and very strong. I wish he had the opportunity to answer me, even if we could talk about it in private. Let's go back to the very commentary of the law. Article 2(2) point 1 and more in Article 6 – the term "entrepreneur" is introduced. No matter what it means, because I found 12 different interpretations in the Encyclopedia, this entrepreneur gets the right to deal with veterinary activity, noting that our legislation allows for entrepreneurial status and persons in a working relationship, which can be a very dangerous precedent, but you are at all playing – this government is actually playing with precedents of this kind and introducing such dangerous things. Furthermore, Article 6 prepares for erasing members who have so far regulated veterinary activity, under the obligation – that anyone who engages in veterinary activity can hire one veterinarian with a licence and end up on that, and now, of course, that person will be responsible. What's that gonna lead to? We can comment on this with several aspects – veterinary clinics will be reregistered to veterinary stations. We can comment on this from different points of view and that in itself is not bad, but it opens up a space for the release of veterinarians, by privatised veterinary cells where they are most, and then – they deal with livestock production, slaughterhouses, artificial insemination centres and beyond. Practically, a small door is introduced – that veterinarians and trained persons, whose responsible person is allowed to dress, do full veterinary practice. I would like to comment on another thing that is very important, which is in Article 16, now Article 9 of point 6 – it is a practice for dogs and cats to be vaccinated against rabies to be carried out in veterinary clinics. In changes you say – can be done in a separate business space, which meets the conditions regarding the facility, profession, equipment, devices. This can, of course, apply to the urban environment and to the well-known owners of dogs and cats, but it can't apply to suburban settlements and it can't apply to the rural environment and you know it. That's the copying you're doing as a alignment with the EU. It's possible there. It's not possible for us. There are possible different things, different regulations, practices and everything else, and that's not possible for us. That's why it's a real situation for us to leave the possibility of actually being treated like other infectious diseases, where systematic vaccination on the ground is used as a prevention to prevent and spread them. In other words, this means that no restrictions should be imposed on veterinary clinics to carry out regular annual prevention against dog and cat rabies on the ground. It's something that's necessary. Furthermore, you say and you're quite cosmetically changing the work of the lab so far, you say that now you're going to seek the accreditation of the lab, introduce a new member that defines the reference laboratory and its work, but there are some discrepancies between what you said and mixing in the workaround of other law-designed organizations. First of all, the Accreditation Body of Serbia, but they are expected to make known and colleges responsible for this. Introduce waste management. That's good. A set of environmental laws has been passed. It's very good to have those two things touched. It's the story of the Veteran Administration on one side as part of agriculture, part as an ecology, but in Article 119, you mix matter a little, because other laws on ecology say that it cannot be the Minister of Agriculture responsible for determining conditions, but rather the Minister of Ecology. What I still have to comment on is that famous central database. It's well imagined, but in practice it doesn't work. At least five or six times a year, you're falling into a complete system, and in that case everything stops. Animal transport does not work, veterinarians have complicated situations that, as in Valjev, top veterinarians suffer because they did not enter some data in time, and then they did not remember afterwards, because the inspection is very rigorous, and it is not the veterinarians' fault, but the ones you need to maintain. In addition, I guarantee you this, the cattle lobby has broken your codes and for the sake of machination with this database. I've got information on that, and we can exchange them, and we can go to the D.A. directly. All in all, after the adoption of this law, regardless of the amendments that you will accept, they will probably be technical, veterinary will no longer belong to veterinarians, public health will be completely something we will not talk about, but in half of the vote we will talk about will still narrow down the work of the veterinary profession, but therefore the minister will have his hands full. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38651	Thank you, Mrs. Vojic-Markovic. I see in the electronic system that the time of the parliamentary group has been used and I have Mr. Milivojevic. On what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38652	I was the president of the Commission who was in charge of implementing the measures of the Veterinary Authority in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Maybe Mrs. Vojic-Markovic doesn't know, but I just want to say something. The truth works, at a time when I was president of that committee, that commission met a few dozen times. None of us received a material fee for working on that commission, we all did volunteer work. We have done this work by inviting veterinary inspectors from all municipalities, all regions, to tell us which of the veterinary cells meets the criteria of the number of veterinarians and the number of examined throats, and after that we have sat down and established the criteria by which we will distribute the terrain to implement the programme of measures. When we have laid down those rules, I have to tell you that there is not only one public veterinary station left, the truth is, there are six left. One of them is in Krushevec. Wherever there were possible veterinary cells, they had the largest territory to implement the measures programme, not private veterinary cells. There was no effect of a private veterinary lobby on me or on any of the other members of the Commission. The Commission has received all praise from all people. The President of the Veterinary Chamber took part in the work of the Commission. All decisions have been made in accordance with the law and there has been no objection to the Commission's work which has not been taken seriously, securely and there is no reason to doubt that this job has been done the best it could at that time. I have to tell you, the truth is, once again, this job has been done best in the best possible light, in the best possible way, under public attention, with the participation of interested groups, individuals, veterinary chambers, professional public and, I underline, most of the work has been given to public veterinary stations where they survived. Where they do not exist, private veterinary cells have been given to them, as they are now translated into private property due to the privatisation of a large number of veterinary cells that are now in the privatisation process. To conclude, I have to say this, we've been praised by the Veterinary Chamber for this job, we've been praised by both professional associations and veterinarians, and we haven't received a single application, not a single criminal application, not even once that contest has been the subject of any investigation or any other investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38653	Thank you, Mr. Milivoevich. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38654	I refer to article 101 - misread my presentation. I don't know why the gentleman who spoke recognized...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38655	I'm sorry, it's a straight line, and I'll give you the right to a replica, you don't have to call on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38656	I simply have experience with you that you will not give me the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38657	This is an entirely different atmosphere. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38658	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, I really didn't mention Mr. Milivojevic and his great commission, nor did I mention anything about what he was talking about here today. I asked for an answer very clearly, precisely and decidently how many veterinary cells remain in the status of a public veterinary station? What was the criterion for them not being? Who's the one who survived? How much is that? That's what I asked as a question. Mr. Micovic recorded it neatly. I didn't find it appropriate today to brag, otherwise it's not my manners, and I had some champions. I see there's some topic here today that we're boasting about ourselves today. I'm in law enforcement, sir. I would very much like to get answers to the questions I asked. It was great at the time when she was a commission, so now there's one that's no good.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38659	That's how I sort of figured it out, but if Mr. Poturak logs into the electronic system, he'll get the word. Here you go, Mr. Munir.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38660	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow Members, I think that the Ministry of Agriculture and last year have a number of important laws that are useful and necessary for the functioning of our farmers. And in this set of seven laws, which are simply connected to each other, have a significant impact on the forest law, the water law, the organic production law, somehow with those previous laws, they have their own round-up continent in favour of our citizens. We adopted the Act on Products of Geographical Origin last year. Last week we passed a law in science and technology, a law on the protection of geographical indications. At this point, we can say for all our agricultural producers, with any space in Serbia, that they can export their products with all the special features, with special recipes to both west and east. It is very important that through the water law, we point out that every man in this Serbia understands how important water care is for our lives. If any of the citizens enter the Internet, only the word water will get information and how good our waters are, and how much we drink, and how much we can praise our capacities, and everything comes down or comes down to every human being, or organism of 70-80% of our body, being water. This water is a transporter of its own good and bad that we enter into the body and therefore our health is being guarded or broken. This is the technical part, but I'd like to send a message through this law to my fellow citizens in New Market. Our water system in Novi Pazar is in a kind of bad state and it would take a lot of money to invest to get rid of it, 60% of the water loss is in that system. In addition to technical disadvantages, there are wild connections and what is most important for Novi Pazar does not have enough capacity at the source. Today there was a meeting here in Belgrade of water, municipal and water protection teams, with further activities in the water supply of the town of Novi Pazar being created and planned. I would like our citizens to know that the actors, besides these institutions, are themselves citizens in the coming period. Everyone has to take care and save the water they have. It's not enough, it'll have as much as everyone saves and uses it evenly. I don't want to scare my neighbors and worry too much, but if one hashtag happens at the source of the market, where the accumulation of this water is, it's a long process of recovery, the city is all tied to that source and there can be a lot of problems. For this reason and this ministry, and this institution, and the town of Novi Pazar, with its professional water-water people, have launched that plan, action work in this direction. The Luxembourg government is helping in this direction, in the first part with a million and seven hundred euros and now in the second phase, where project documentation is being done, with a plan of 4.5m euros in feasibility. I ask you, Mr. Minister, that through your experts from the Water Service, you help to help with another part of the funds, since there is a plan there to get a dinar, municipal or urban, one part of the funds from the ministry to solve the problems that exist in the New Market more permanently. Another thing I would like to mention, and regarding the law on professional services in agriculture, if anything good and useful has been done and is constantly talking about education from seven to seventy-seven years old, I would like to commend the work of professional service in Novi Pazar and the work of professional service in Prijepol, at least I know how many people are engaged, how much they work. In this quarter alone, i.e. in this first three months of this year, the professional service in Novi Pazar has 205 outposts on the ground, 336 meetings in the office itself. Nine lectures were held for farmers in the service rooms, 12 workshops with hired experts outside Novi Pazar, nine radio shows, 39 TV shows, four professional articles were published from this space, five professional publications and nine gatherings with farmers on topics active on the basis of subsidies and other types of incentives in this area. The useful thing for our farmers is that these days all the municipalities of the Ministry are given their hands so that they can get loans from farmers, part of the municipality's assets, part of the Ministry and part of the funds from the Commercial Bank. These three pillars, in fact, make it easier for all our farmers to pay off the funds they received in the next five years for competitive projects. In addition to these funds, all farmers should count on these funds, they should also count on grants. It's another part of the funds that are in the package of, say, free and cheap money for our farmers. As of next week, our farmers will be familiar with the grant contests. On this occasion, I would also like to point out that on the village tourism site there are 12 rural households from the Sandzak area, that they are included in households for rural tourism. The funds can also be used this year by subsidies and from the Development Fund there are funds for the rural area from that area, so that they can use up to 1% from up to five years. I would ask that each of my fellow Members of Parliament present to our farmers somehow, and that all those who have the opportunity to look at us, because this is an opportunity, to get to know in the best way how many opportunities they have, and indeed have opportunities. Since 2007, from the area of Novi Pazar, Tutina and Sjenica, I can tell you, for the first time, over 300 agricultural holdings have used subsidies. Sometimes they're enough, sometimes they should be bigger, but I think they all become aware that they should be better organized and done in a planful way. This law on professional services is actually about planning. Based on the records that are being monitored in these professional services. Rules, legality are implemented, on which the budget is created in this ministry, and then even with less money sometimes more is done because money is directed in a proper and competitive way. You helped me and the Association of Farmers in Novi Pazar every time these people spoke and you moved the deadlines for applying for subsidies, so those fiscal accounts, due to the maturation of plants later due to climatic conditions, were accepted for about a month, so you accepted to fit into the machinery and smaller machines, motocultivators and others, because of rural or hilly areas and less capacity of these agricultural land. You've always responded. I'd like some of us MPs or the Committee on Agriculture to commend. Mr. Krstin, Mr. Mašić and all the members of the Committee, at the invitation of the farmer from Pazar, Sjenica and Tutina, organized a 17th and 18th meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, presenting what will be done in the next period. I don't think there's a difference in the area of agriculture and the Committee on Agriculture, except for the intention to make this work in the best way both with criticism and commendation. Besides these funds, I can't skip not to mention that there are donations. In the area, the German organisation "Help" helped with three greenhouses through this Association of Farmers, in Serbia's territory with more than 30 plastics, most in undeveloped areas, the south and east of Serbia. And that's where it took people to know and compete in time. If someone doesn't compete, if they haven't done their business plan, nobody's really giving any more money out of their sight. In addition to these subsidies, in addition to incentives, donations, Mr. Minister Sasa Dragin also noted the importance of insurance from natural disasters in agricultural production. Maybe in the area where I come from people don't have a habit of using or providing themselves, but also by scientific means or by tracking, climate or elemental disasters happen more often, maybe they can be predicted, but they can't react in time. For this reason, all those commercial, serious agricultural producers should use the possibility of insurance, as they often invest their entire earnings over the previous year for the following year in order to maintain or increase their incomes and are often threatened by one wave of natural disasters. And for that, there are certain incentives. What I'd like to point out in the end. According to this Agricultural Services Act, 225 expert advisors are involved. There are about 600,000 agricultural holdings, of which 300,000 are registered. It's not enough 225 counselors. In Pazar, Sjenica, in Tutin, I think there are about 16 agro-engineers of various professions of the unemployed or somewhere in the Bureau. This is an opportunity to get a job, because the license is not only about professional services that are now organized, but are about the conditions, the way people can make it, take it and get a license. They can also be on their own, in the form of entrepreneurs, they can be within a legal entity, but there's plenty of space for their activity and they can work and earn their salary, so they don't wait for someone to hire them at last. To every job like this, I try to send a message to our citizens, businesses, experts, that there is money for their jobs and through the National Employment Service, there is money also in the Development Fund and in the Ministry of Agriculture. From all sources, money can be drawn for their employment. It's not enough to start with, but it's enough to get to work. This, unfortunately, they say, is an open competition and a market, but it's good because they compete with knowledge. Gentlemen, you from the Ministry always come with a full team and that means that you are very open to all MPs, 250 from all parts of Serbia we come, and you go everywhere and with all people, face-to-face, talk and meet both the good and the bad sides, but I believe that in any other part of Serbia, but in the area where I come from, the situation has certainly improved twice, at least since I know, in 2007, as I follow and how I am second in the Committee on Agriculture. The way people think about it now, there's security in what's done and it's not the dramatic situation with Shadow Cheese anymore, like it was last year. They don't pack people in 30 or 100 kilos of helmets anymore, they just pack it the way they can sell it and they have their labels, and that cheese is here on these market networks. This is the same with that shadow lamb brand, for which our agricultural producer Sjenica has received the first prize – best from Serbia, and three products from that space are on the list for the designation of geographical origin, special recipe and speciality of the place and the end. I mean, I didn't want to, I have no intention of raising the situation politically, but I am sending a message to all people in that space, telling people in Serbia that some kind of personal initiative can speed up their better lives and take advantage of the benefits that exist. There is also a need for cooperation with these professional services. I think there are over 20 in Serbia's space. I think that's where people are very engaged. Maybe it should be more financial to help them, to encourage them, too. For reasonable people, I think it's enough to understand that everyone leads and doesn't save with the money they have and is directed towards agriculture. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38661	The remaining time of the ZES parliamentary group is 28 minutes. The word is Mr. Vitomir Plužarević. Time remaining 47 minutes and 40 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38662	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, today we are discussing a set of laws. I have the honour to present from this set only three laws due to the time period we've received, so I'm going to start with the law on the production of agricultural plant variety. The laws of 998 and 2002 once provided for, and by the law of 2005 there has been a change of that previous law, where fruit, vines, hops, seed law, the recognition of varieties has been regulated by these two laws. By passing this law, any disagreements that could not be defined by previous laws would be resolved. Since the time of our great scientist, Michael Pupin, in Serbia, we have dealt with this work called kaleming and fruiting, and he has been sending messages from this white world to Serbia – growing, calemite and producing the best quality fruits and vegetables, because this climate and this sun gives the best quality fruits on the globe. Today all our institutes are devastated. This was the objective of the current government managed by foreign capital and profession. These foreigners were the primary goal of destroying our profession, science and bringing Serbia into addiction, that Serbia must buy these foreign varieties, or their goal was only profit. Today we have to import all the seeds from America, Europe, and that our seed market and everything domestic must be polluted by manufacturers in a variety of professional ways. We were exporting corn seed, wheat seed, sunflower seed. They talked to my colleagues about it. There's nothing since that export today. We've exported the vine. Today, we are the main importers of the vines. Serbia produced 60-80 million kalems of vines. Exports were to the former Soviet Union and the space of former SFRY, Croatia, Macedonia. In the Soviet Union, we've exported 40 million vines. If today's price of potassium in the world market is one to two euros, calculate for yourself what benefit it has been for Serbia. And today we're importing a Rauchedo firm from Italy, the Richter firm from France. Imagine how many workers and families would be employed only at that job. We know when it started and lasts until today. It began with the arrival of Mrs. Minister for Agriculture, she did everything she could to harm our producers and to give the fruit material as black as possible. We'll remember those institutes that did these jobs. It's Zaječar, it's Radmilovac, Sremski Karlovci, Čačak, Wolf and others. During the destruction of our houses, they were tasked with destroying the chemical industry that accompanied fruit and vineyarding. It was "Zorca" Shabatz and "Zupa" Kruševac. If this law can revitalise these ruins I've talked about, it won't be bad, but I think it's an impossible mission and it takes a huge amount of money and a long time to recover a technological sequence from this area. And today, in Srem, new plantations are being planted, which are importing fruit material from Italy and France. Does anyone know what their useful value is? He doesn't know. Will the law, which is the goal, allow for increased plantings of vines and all orchards? Time's ahead of us, we'll see. I was tasked with reminding the Ministry that they know and that regarding this law they provide enough money to recover what we lost in the previous period. Water, water law. This water law had to be passed before many laws were passed by this parliament out of the responsibility of protecting the environment and agriculture. The Water Act had to look at all the negative causes and consequences that occurred in the past, for example, over the last hundred years, and bring new methods of water management based on these and such parameters. For example, what do you do with slides? How to prepare riverbeds and words that have caused huge damage to agriculture and inhabited areas? All this to be summed up in this new bill, and to put the European Union aside, because our water is not going towards the European Union, but their dirty water and dirty technology are polluting our rivers and spaces. In the world, the importance of this resource is changing. If we know there were six billion people living on the globe, and in 40 years, there will be nine billion. If we present this on the case of one cubic meter of water, we'll see this ratio of pollution and the use of that cubic meter of water. So this resource must be planned and organised in one way, that we as an integral part of that world take care of in our Serbia, this and such water resources - and that is the noise of our space must increase from 27%, which now, to 43% that we are planning more. For example, there is now 5% noise in Vojvodina, and we are looking at 14%. For example, a channel network in Vojvodina has cut down all the wood mass, and in these places there are now chicars, and these areas are about 12,000 hectares that aim to provide and benefit from the forest in general, not just to protect the coast and coastal areas. When we know that one square metre of forest land in the year retains 100 liters of water, the forest is a tank, but the keeper and such water. It's a story that hasn't entered the ears of the ministry that's in charge of water resources yet. The polluted active substances touch us from Kosovo and Metohija Ibro, and there is EULEX as a representative of Europe. What's he doing there to reduce that pollution? Nothing. Why is this water law not systemically solved channel Danube – Tisa – Danube, and it is related to irrigation and draining? The minister says this law will encourage irrigation and that the systems it has today will increase from 6-7% to 10% of agricultural land and that these agricultural producers will receive a reduced tax on disposal and irrigation if they use these funds from the budget. Why did this law not provide for this great wave of Danube entering our country to be translated into a new corridor that can carry out this high wave, i.e. to create a Danube - Sava channel, which would be dug at the border of Croatia and Serbia at the village of Erdewik, to go across Visic, to the border of Sava, or Kuzmin. That canal would be used as a water surface, and it could irrigate all of Luck. The cost and estimate of digging that channel is measured as is the cost of a kilometer of asphalt road, the highway. That means a million-and-a-half euros, and maybe that would be more expensive. That means this law in section 84, 85 and 86 was supposed to predict that. You're saying in the law that water has an economic value that is strongly reflected in the development of all segments of economy and society? What do you mean you're realising, and you know we're like an economy in collapse, so you don't see a way out of a crisis? What user to pay when we've been destroyed: culture, science, education, health care, economy, military, police, judiciary, who will be that user to pay, when there's no bread, and we know that water has always been free? This is a very interesting Council Directive 80/68 EC and 2006/118/EC on the protection of groundwater against pollution. This same Europe is pressured by the authorities to deposit nuclear waste and hazardous materials directly into Serbia, in abandoned mines and localities they determine. How long does it take to clear the waterways that contaminated NATO when they bombed us? Not a word about it in this proposal. He's paying for the contaminant. Which one of them is going to charge if it's going to be our part before joining the NATO Alliance, and they've done us damages of $200 billion? Remember, $200 billion. This good status of water someone must pay, and we in Serbia do not have such citizens, they are not able to pay for it today. The principle of water system unity, water management within a single water space must take place in line with Serbia's regional development. How? Do you think you can solve it with the Regional Development Act, because water is weird, it can't stop and wait for some of the two presidents of the municipality to agree on quantity and speed, quality, chemical composition and all the other factors. I've got some time to use the woods for that law, too. That law was commented by my colleagues, and there were a lot of colleagues from the position mostly praised by the law, which is logical to praise. I'm going to give one cut, or as long as it allows me, I may not be able to make it all because of the weather, but as far as I can get, I'm going to use it. The forest law aims to bring the constitutional and legal system into line with the factual state of the forest on the ground. The forest has always been a huge material security for both the state and the forest owners. Today, according to some estimates, the state of the forest is in the ownership sense -47% of the private forest and 53% of the state forest. There are also data that this relationship has changed and that it is 52 private forests and 48 states. It will only be a great task for the Ministry and all entities to dismember it as it should be. The law prescribes measures for the permanent existence of forests, and we as a people and states must keep in mind that noise in Serbia is 27, and that our goal should be 41%. To achieve this goal, the state must provide a large amount of money through budgets and other donations and contributions, and to invest in raising new, young and quality forests. Today's stake in the woods tomorrow will allow new generations to live qualityly with these forests and have the opportunity to maintain this fund continuously and that percentage of 41% of the noise and increase real opportunities behind them. We've made little comment here, and we've been lenient about that percentage of noise. The minister says - we are not far from Europe. But with these comments, I keep letting them know that we need to have a higher percentage of those who give us assignments. So, we are, specifically, the Woodland was once covered in forest and that noise was very high. In order to meet all the assumptions offered by the law, the staff of the forest professions must also prepare for the job. How? There must be the Ministry of Education and Education, and the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Environmental Protection to create an operational plan to get these new personnel to take care of the forests. But financial resources are also needed to make all this happen, and the budget for the management of the forest is small and the problem has to be solved. This is where we commented about these couples that were meant for the woods. I'm going to say a few sentences about the forests of the Vojvodina and the forestiness of that region. It is 5% today, and the target is 12%. The increase in noise in Vojvodina is feasible, as there are surfaces, and this has been spoken by colleagues, who are mostly forest land and these areas should be detained for purposes. It's coastal and coastal channels. These canals have about 12,000 hectares that have now grown in chicares and need to be translated into quality economic forests. Article 7 of this Act has a binding character and it reads: "The owner, or the user of the forest, is obliged to implement forest protection measures". How can he do that when property-legal relations aren't solved yet? I mean the Restitution Act. Or, when they return to those good old owners, and they have not participated for 50 and 60 years in the accumulation of funds from these forests, they are now unable to comply with that Article of the 7th Law. The priority generalized function of the forest – Article 14 of this Act, shows that generalised functions are provided except for funding. How is that going to be financed? The law says the proposal of an interested legal person, it's optional. It's just like putting an object of historical importance under protection, and eventually it falls because there was no money in that institution, or it couldn't, you know, it's how it happens. About the planning, the forest area. In these areas, the law had to establish a global state with measures and objectives to increase noise, forest types and global wood mass, and the ultimate goal of making a concrete area, I am commenting now, could also be the Summic, Banatical or any other Banatian area, marking its noise, for example by percentage, and we tend there again percentage, that it stands in the law. At that time, inspectors would follow the law independently of politics, doing good for the forest, which would set a goal for them and reach the goal by plan or law. Plans for the development of forests of national parks - we have already mentioned this in general forest functions. How is it regulated by law, when we know that these forests cannot be produced according to the economic principles of wood varieties based on the state of growth, patrol and other parameters, but that function must be paid by someone? Who's someone? We have been a socialist society so far, and today our constitutional justice system is capitalist, and the people are used to walking freely in national parks, forests. How do we systemically solve this without surrounding the surface of the fences? What method or technology? The financing of these and such national parks comes down to 95% of their own income. Article 31 - Performance plans. There is no room for detail in the law, but the field profession tells the minister that pattern 19 under the old law needs to be simplified. The department department knows what this is about, so I don't get it. Article 58 - excerpt. And there were these comments. The minister is closer to prescribing the way and the timing of the line, the relevant books, and all that is related, i.e. the relevant books, are not practical for field work. Boxes for tree records are too small to work on the ground, and should be aligned with new needs. Article 71 - Ownership of the forest owners. The funds are provided from the budget. That means the owners will be able to join the association. The law member would also have to regulate that percentage of private forests in Serbia 52% and by resolving the percentage of issues related to the organisation of private forest owners in the Western Balkan countries: Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Macedonia, Serbia. It is a voluntary organisation of private forest owners in Serbia. Who is it that represents forest owners in Serbia's forestry policy? The question is, can private forest owners manage their forests in a sustainable way under this new law? What are the differences and similarities between private and state sector forestry? What should a private forest look like, the size of a property, the structure and everything else? What is the treatment of forest owners in the existing and what in the proposal for this new forest law? Statistics say that the average area of private forest property in Serbia is about 4 hectares, while the average wood mass and volume growth are smaller than in the state forests. We believe that forest owners need public and material support from the state in the sustainable management of their forest properties - subsidies. A strong lobby must be created to improve the current state of private forests by consulting and other professional-legal activities. You probably think that councils or chambers will be able to solve this delicate issue, even to the extent that private forests in Serbia are being organised by the Ministry of Private Forests or some lower form which I am now going to name. So far, 10 local associations have been formed in Serbia and there are no regional and national associations. In neighbouring Austria, there is an interesting organisation of forest owners with mandatory membership. This means that each owner of the forest is also a member of the interest organisation of the forest - chamber. Private forests in Serbia account for 1.2 million hectares, and this size of forest property should be taken seriously and taken into account to avoid allowing this 1.2 million hectares to become an unpleasant area in Serbia, and could be smart technology and legislation to bring economic function, with multiple benefits. Article 75 - Forest Council. It is a task force that must be made up of eminent, with reference, forest experts. Don't make this advice an unprofessional, policy-chosen person, as you do today with the directors of public enterprises, there have been speeches from previous colleagues. It's important to you that the gentleman is a member of your party, the rest of you is none of your business. Well, then it's hard for both the woods and the people. The law did not bring many radical changes compared to the old law. And that's what my colleagues were talking about. The profession didn't mix much and give some special specialties. So, mostly this law will continue in some continuity, it's in the woods to bring this law to its purposes and to make that noise at some point with new generations a quality result. I didn't want to bother you, but mostly here's the part of our exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38663	It's been used 23.20 since the parliamentary group's time. Mr. Kenan Hajdarevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38664	Dear President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected representatives of the Ministry, who are clearly more than our MPs, I would like to take the opportunity to demonstrate the commitment of the Liberal Democratic Party to Serbia's path to the European Union, which, among other things, is shown by harmonising legislation in the area of agriculture with European Union legislation, as well as by applying good practice from those countries of the European Union that have passed through a transition period, such as Serbia, in our legislation. However, in addition to the legislation needed to be brought into line with the European Union, our farmers would benefit the same way as farmers from other countries that have passed this period should also have good practice on the ground. And we have to take this opportunity to say that farmers, i.e. farmers who have survived the transition process in their countries, have become the biggest winners of joining their countries to the European Union, i.e. that their revenues have increased on average by 200%, which only shows that Serbia's path to the European Union is on the one hand, and on the other hand shows the justification that we, as a country, are investing in our agricultural producers. In order to be able to invest in agricultural producers, we must not only do this as the Ministry of Agriculture, because in addition to what the Ministry of Agriculture is doing, it is extremely important that the agricultural production process is followed by other ministries and other RS government agencies. This is the super-thinking Ministry of Infrastructure. I am particularly referring to agricultural producers in the mountainous and mountainous areas, i.e. from where I come from, the Sandzak areas, because it is impossible to have a strong agricultural land in these areas if we have an extremely bad infrastructure, on the one hand. On the other hand, we can't have a strong agricultural producer if we just focus on subsidies from the Ministry of Agriculture without our local self-government doing the same. We have examples of some local self-government where these subsidies of agricultural producers are not done in a transparent manner, on the one hand, and on the other hand, those political parties that are today prescribing a demagogue story, and at a local level where authorities show that they ruled over previous years and that they would still have the chance to rule the Republic of Serbia. I would also like to say that I should inform the Minister of two examples, or two of the questions referred to by the citizens in the Sandzak area, and they are also related to the work of his ministry, that is to say, some kind of warning. The first question concerns citizens from the territory of the Tutin municipality living on the border to KIM, where the forest is being cut illegally by KIM. What's going on here? It happens that the foresters are unable to react because of fear for their own lives. I think that the national authorities of the RS need to pay a little more attention. Another example is the suggestion of citizens from the municipality of Prepolje, the local community of Brodarevo, regarding the water industry, i.e. the project of the construction of two hydropower plants in the area of Prepolje, i.e. two hydropower plants that should cover the local community of Brodarevo, i.e. that Brodarevo is located between two hydropower plants, between two lakes, i.e. to collapse Brodarevo in the space of six kilometers between the two hydropower plants. Citizens, or NGOs, of the citizens' associations, have addressed our MP group, asking the competent ministries, and therefore your ministry, to make sure that this affects the lives of citizens, whether it affects the lives of agricultural producers, or whether it affects the contributions that they will make and what will happen when these hydropower plants become reality in their lives? In the end, I want to give an example of how only one segment of agriculture can develop agriculture. This best shows, unlike Mr. Poturk, an example of Sandzak, because we can't have a strong agricultural producer who can normally sell his products if we have bad relations with the countries next door. Because, where can agricultural producers of Pazar, Sjenica, Tutina, Prboja sell their products if they do not want to sell it in the CG, BiH or in the Kosovo area. If we as a state have a bad relationship and are looking for opponents in the CG, in BiH, we do not establish normal relations with Kosovo Albanians, free of us and subsidies, free of us and acceleration of production, because these agricultural producers will have no one to sell their products to.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38665	The word has a folk MP, Mr Milan Škrbić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38666	It's not hard. We've been here all day, so we'll make it. Let me repeat, if it has not been heard, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the Ministry and respected citizens of Serbia, the basic objection to this session, as well as to many previous ones, is this and this united debate, and I must say that because of the citizens who resent and because of the profession that occurs during the day and which we are in contact with, because we are talking about seven laws and seven ratifications, and we have included, I think, two or three subjects or none at the end, definitely and finally or in detail. There are countless reasons for such a remark and not only from the SRS parliamentary group, but also from the complete opposition, including many MPs from the ruling coalition with whom we are speaking outside the session. It turns out that this is a competition between this ruling coalition and the previous governments and coalitions -- who passed more laws for his term of office, and when the election time comes, then praises begin. Later we come, because of the speed and method of passing speed laws, as someone calls them, in the situation of supplementing them, supplementing the amendments and additions to the laws, and in fact, we are wasting valuable time on the quick path to the EU, which we have been so hasty to pursue since 2000, means ten years and still nothing. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, assuming there will be few of those who in a bunch of these laws, conventions and ratifications will talk about a new law on beer, and here I was right when I said today no one was talking about that law. I'm gonna make a little joke, we should have this drying debate and get a little watered up and cheer up. It's Friday afternoon, right? I'm talking about this law that I think must have been passed. However, I also find it unspeakable. We have in the basic provisions of this law, in Articles 1, 2 and 3, which speak of the following: where the conditions of the production of beer, quality and control of the quality of raw materials used in the manufacture of beer, quality, quality control, packaging, declaration and placing on the market of beer, as well as control over the implementation of this law. In Article 2, the raw materials used in the manufacture of beer must meet the prescribed quality standards set out in this law and the regulations governing their quality. Beer must meet the prescribed quality standards and conditions regarding packaging, declarations, as set out in this law and regulations governing its quality, packaging, declaration, etc. Article 3 states that beer is a fermented drink obtained by the technological process of barley malt, unsweetened raw materials, hops, water and yeast. I'm going to try to draw your attention to the very important things that we're missing when we make this law. When drawing up this law, it must be taken into account and clearly put into the law of some definition in order for producers themselves to have insight and be ready in advance for efforts, I would say a multi-annual effort, to get from the EU so-called. A sign of protection, and no one mentions it in the law, and that's a very important thing. It is a matter of preparing the production and export of the final product to the EU. We should have made it clear that these beers were made according to a special procedure. It's not in the law that they're beer with alcohol content between 2.6% and 6%. The "Serbian beer" sign will not have every beer produced in Serbia because the EU distinguishes three types of registration: protected designation of origin, protected geographical origin and guaranteed traditional speciality. While the first two protective markings confirm that the product is partly or wholly produced in a specific geographical area, in the third category there are specialities that can prove traditional production and composition. I know that we have the Code of Geographical Origin, and that is why we had to enter it into some members, in order to make it clearer and to make it clear through the law to manufacturers that the EU distinguishes these three types of registrations, and one of them we do, and that is the Law on Protected Geographical Origin. What should have been stated in the law and not mentioned, and it is important, as you yourself have presented in your opening short presentation, is the export of this product itself, and Serbia is a major beer producer. Hygiene, as a basic factor of something produced, belongs to many in the food product. Many countries place it as a food product, hygiene as an imperative and a condition of good product. Since beer is the liquid food as many call it, beer producers must try to provide the highest level of hygiene at the beginning and, together with the most modern methods of fine beer cooking, provide an example of good manufacturing practice, all for the safety of products and the protection of our consumers. Evidence of this is international certification... ISO 9001, 2000, as well as an ecology certificate ISO 14001, which definitely confirms the quality of the entire production process, from the origin of raw materials to the finished product. All this stuff I'm saying right now, I didn't find in this beer law that I'm only talking about today. These allegations, which would have to stand in the law, would have given an initial definition of what is needed for successful production. These beer producers, which unfortunately have fewer and fewer in this country due to poor privatisation, would have been made aware of the brewery industry to become owners of these standards, without which the product cannot be placed on the market in Europe today. I'm sure you agree with me, Mr. Minister, but because of the short time I have at my disposal, I will only list some of us undefined members of this law, of course well-meaningly. We have submitted 20 amendments and are mostly meaningful, in order to improve the law and give manufacturers the opportunity to better prepare for any tomorrow's exports and production itself that is sensitive. They would define in terms of meeting the prescribed standards and conditions, and all in accordance with these laws, adding certain words or attitudes, would be more precisely defined by the term beer itself, and all in accordance with this beer law. More specifically, we should define who can do anything in accordance with the law to make beer and register beer producers. We mentioned labs here. Today we're talking about the water law. Water is the largest ingredient in beer production, and these waters are increasingly polluted every day. That's why we need these labs, which are out of the law again. We listed this daily control of these technical waters or drinking waters, or from those wells, how which brewery is supplied, someone from the well, someone from the spring or otherwise. No matter what, any water that comes into beer production technology has to pass the lab test. Because of many ambiguities, and I am running out of time because we have agreed so, you will have to make changes and additions to this law or make a new rule on the quality of beer in which all these details are clearly defined. In the end, Mr. Minister, we have submitted 20 amendments to this bill, with a desire to define it better, improve it in a way that we do not spoil and destroy the basic idea of this proposal. I hope you will adopt a large number of amendments submitted by the SRS parliamentary groups and its MPs. Mr. Minister, be the first to accept quality amendments, no matter what parliamentary groups they come from. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38667	Ten minutes and 40 seconds of MP time have been used. The word is made by Minister Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38668	First of all, I would like to thank Mr. Skrbić for his always quality discussion. What I would like to point out is that the law is written in such a way that the use of the experience of all European countries that have such laws and they have followed us in writing this law. The lawmaking industry was also involved in the production of beer, which was significant, because above all they were interested in defining quality and because of their export potential that this area of production, as you said liquid food, was far better decorated in our country. If you carefully study the law you will see the need to introduce the most rigorous criteria regarding the quality of the ingredients that enter, as well as to respect the most basic and demanding standards related to the hygiene-sanitary, bacteriological and any other regularity of this drink. What I must mention is that the food safety law is also very clearly defined as what standards producers must have and for this reason I think that this law will contribute greatly to the greater development of this branch, which is an extremely important branch for us, because the beer industry in Serbia is the strongest in the whole region, if not in Southeast Europe, and is making huge revenues that are important for our country. Of course everything proposed must be considered and we, as you said, will adopt every good amendment, no matter what political option it comes from.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38669	Thank you, Minister. We're on a television broadcast by 7:30, and if we're effective, we'll be done sooner. Milan Skrbić, from the scene: I would only speak for half a minute. We won't be effective. There you go, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38670	Let me just fill it in. Thank you very much. Just to fill out what I didn't say in my presentation. I'm from Apatino. So it's clear to you that the Apathian brewery leader is selling beer in the Balkans, and that's why it was a good intention for us from the SRS to supplement this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38671	Thank you. It's also the minister's intention. The word is Dr. Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38672	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, co-workers at the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at this time that I have at my disposal, I will continue this afternoon's debate. First of all, I want to say a few more words about the Organic Agricultural Production Act and what it needs to bring. First of all, I want to say more about what our country should do in the next period, in terms of massaging that production, first of all, because we have extraordinary resources of natural and other objective resources. Unfortunately, in our country, much less has been used in all past years by artificial fertilisers in agricultural production. It will make it much easier to convert to organic agricultural production. We have particularly significant resources in the so-called The marginal areas, meaning mountain-mounted or mountain-mounted crossings in mountain-mounted areas, where there are extremely good conditions for organic production, with a much greater volume of production and production to appear on the world and European market than it is today. We must not forget that the price of organic production products is at least 50 and most often 100% more expensive than conventional products. It is certainly necessary for the state to show more interest and attention, and above all to provide greater resources in terms of incentives for that production. I came from the Chamber of Commerce site of Serbia to data that in EU countries, subsidisation per hectare of one-year military production in organic agricultural production is 600 euros, and subsidising multi-year war crops again in organic agricultural production is 900 euros per hectare. If it's us for this year, that's it. You at the Ministry have proposed that the distribution of the agricultural budget should be allocated to 10 million dinars for the promotion of organic agricultural production, which is about 100,000 euros. If the rate of subsidies in the EU is applied, with the aim of increasing that production, then a really very small number of users of these incentives could do so. I therefore suggest that the possibility of existing means be determined whether more can be defined for organic production. Also, those who opt for this production to enable them, if anything, to receive long-term credit incentives under favourable conditions. It means that their requirements are respected in this respect by business banks, with which they have made arrangements to give long-term incentives, and from the part defined by the Ministry in terms of aid in long-term lending to be also targeted for organic agricultural production. This will enable those who are interested in this production to reach larger funds, because it is absolutely true that this production is significantly more costing than conventional and investment in such production and the implementation of such production is uncomparably more expensive than conventional. Also, in order for this production to live in the right sense, additional education is necessary, first of all, through higher education. Agricultural colleges and those training agricultural experts should in the teaching process introduce a mandatory and directional organic agricultural production. Through this education to educate experts, who will really help organise and affirmate and produce in the right way, because there is still a great unknown to how this production is carried out and what is necessary to provide and in essence what it brings. I'm asking the chairman to tell me how many more minutes I have at my disposal? (President: You had a total of 10.50 minutes). All right, five more minutes. A few more words, I'd say, don't be like a vet if I hadn't looked back on the amendments to the Veterinary Act. I welcome these amendments, of course, they were necessary in the existing law, and above all they were caused by the adoption of the food safety law and most of the amendments were exactly the alignment of this law with this law, but also some other jobs that were regulated in a different way, by the adoption of new European regulations, so it was inevitable that harmonisation would be carried out in this law. Amendments to this law have defined some new veterinary entities or some have been slightly different defined and they have been assigned competences. First of all, I think of the veterinary laboratory, which as such existed in the existing law, and I think of the reference laboratory that is being introduced as something new and in this veterinary law, although it is defined in this food safety law, and even more specifically, the competences of this laboratory may be determined. As far as the lab is concerned, I call it "veterinary", because this veterinary law is defined, it is defined that this laboratory performs: diagnostic tests, bacteriological, serological, viral, parasitic, then chemical, biochemical, physical (which I do not know exactly what they are), pathological and radiological. What I think the promoter has missed to define here – it's some humane minimum that needs to satisfy this laboratory, because what's defined for this laboratory, it's done by laboratories in specialist and scientific institutes, and for those legal persons, for those laboratories in those institutes, that's what the institutions that have these laboratories are defined to have – a microbiologist specialist, that they have to have a specialist in pathology, epizootology, again related to the diagnostics of infectious diseases, reproduction of artificial insemination. It's not defined in this way, but it's been given the possibility of the Minister that he's closer to determining which personnel these labs may have, to determine their powers. I am afraid that by forming some new veterinary laboratories or some general laboratories that will carry out these tasks, these laboratories will get powers and take over jobs from specialist veterinary institutes, these institutions exist for many years and have invested in their personnel, equipment and everything else. So it is given the right of the minister to determine because we now have a situation that one laboratory in a company, say Sojaprotein, is authorised to conduct certain tests of food for animals, products of animal origin, with an explanation that it is well equipped and that it meets certain conditions and that it is authorised. Tomorrow it may be another, third and factual situation of our institution that exists for years to run out of work. As for the reference laboratories, I think the reference laboratory must exist and there are a number of significant responsibilities. What I think is something that can't be operated on, it's only in the stages of resuscitation, and here are certain competences to define more clearly that this laboratory needs to be performed, and among other things, testing and verifying the quality of the vaccine and the diagnostics and the reagents. It's what the science institutes have been doing so far, because they've had personnel and equipment and rooms because they need both living animals and everything else. I think it's too big a bite now transferred to that lab. Will she be able to fill everything? We have a promise from the director that by next week I will go to see what it is and how it will be organised, so I may change my mind, but for the time being, these powers that are defined here simply cannot be accepted by this laboratory, and when this law is passed it enters into force and such a laboratory begins to live, and objectively there is not much in itself. I'm running out of time, Mr. President. I respect that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38673	Thank you, Mr. Masic, for your strict and well-respecting Rules of Procedure and Practice. The word is Mr. Dobrislav Prelic, the remaining time of the SRS parliamentary group is 13.5 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38674	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think today you've had the opportunity to make sure that the SRS is not just advocating for the better status of our agriculture, especially for the better status of our individual agricultural producers. No matter how we object in this way of working where the laws are united, you have made sure today that we have divided the laws between ourselves and that we have made every effort to make as concrete as possible and as precise as possible to you and to the public, especially to our farmers, that we intend to improve these laws in any case, in one correct communication with each other with the Ministry of Agriculture, all for the sake of our agriculture. I'd look back at my exposure to organic production. I think that when I say I mean Serbia and our agricultural producers, we're pioneers in this business. That our options are great, of course they are, but in order to reach an enviable level in organic production, we certainly need help and state, and above all, the Ministry of Agriculture. I don't think our agricultural producers are sufficiently directed at all when it comes to organic production, but I hope that in the future there will be more quality knowledge, that they will have selfless support, above all I mean smaller agricultural holdings, because I think this is one way that they can get more income, and especially if we respect everything that is provided for in this law. The conditions for organic production are primarily extremely strict. In order for land to be certified for organic food production, it is necessary not to be treated with chemicals for at least three years, and only permanent fertilisers are allowed to be used. Lands and farms must be isolated and far from wastewater or pollen genetically modified crops. In any case, it is important that water for irrigation and air are also high quality. The biggest dilemma with our producers is what kind of land to choose from. In fact, we do not have specific locations in Serbia where organic production could be done, but there are some assumptions that even 80% of our land meets the needs of such production. Organic products may be produced on any parcel that meets the general conditions. However, it is necessary to stay away from factories, highways and parcels where agricultural cultures are grown in a conventional manner. The area has to prepare well and clean the land for such production, and most importantly respects the period of conversion, or time needed to move from standard production to organic. Whether manufacturers will meet all these conditions will be assessed by an authorised certification organisation, on the basis of which the report is approved. Organic products producers do not currently need permission from the Ministry of Agriculture to deal with organic production, but must conclude a contract with one of the authorised certification houses that control and certification organic products. What we should definitely say is that areas under organic production have increased in the last few years, but certainly our possibilities are much higher and that should be a much larger number of surfaces represented. What our ministry must pay particular attention to is certainly a major problem over Serbia, which is genetically modified organisms. That's what we talked about last year. The fact is that the seed soybeans that have been modified have entered Serbia, and certainly the fact that "Monsantu" is allowed to take a look at our surfaces, where we are looking at seed corn, and we have knowledge that it will come to us and genetically modified potatoes, and even tomatoes, as one of our colleagues here has said. We need to define what we're going to give priority to in any case, and I'm sure the Ministry of Agriculture and our government will get the strength and the courage to tell the big companies, especially the Monsantu, no, and we'll turn to what can be profit, and what we all know and we're aware that agriculture is the only branch where we make a surplus. The SRS thinks it can be on a much higher level, but that would be much higher, certainly, that the government has to help. The minister here in his opening statement said these are system laws, and I have to say I get the impression that this government is systematically destroying agriculture. For what? You said, Mr. Minister, that the subsidy level has been increased, and it is, that the budget has been raised to 3.1% and that's certainly good, but the question is, is it enough? I hope you're sharing our opinion that it isn't. If the budget were 6%, I'm sure it would be a lot easier for you to do the same and not have to resort to some of the things you've done in the past, especially when it comes to subsidies. You've just been forced to do something like that, and here, first of all, I'm thinking about subsidies where you took off agricultural pensioners to 30% by regulation. I'd like to tell you a fact from the field. It may have been justified at that given moment, but these agricultural pensioners, they still have households where both the farmer and his son live, and even a grandson and everyone deals with agriculture. They had the opportunity, I know you'll say that one of the younger members is registered professionally, but what about smaller agricultural holdings, he when he pays contributions and, say, when he has three acres, he literally has nothing left. Then, there's another remark that I believe you won't be able to comment on, which is that you've abolished the aid of non-communicated agricultural holdings when it comes to pensioners. You know that they had the aid of 40,000 dinars and that it was abolished. Agricultural pensions are at 8,200 dinar level. I think it's really one misery and that, first of all, the government, and the Ministry could've had the strength to sort of run into these people in a way and not cut them off on an annual basis. Secondly, I am also sure that the third war, which is also a question, has not been paid for agricultural pensioners in the amount of 24,000 dinars. I think you should consider that in some future period. Of course, it's good as much subsidies to our farmers, but today you said you couldn't directly influence prices on the market. I think the Ministry may have some effect on the prices on the market, especially when it comes to the stock reserve. You know how there's been a drop in the price of milk. There's a lot of talk here in parliament about milk prices. There's another problem. Many people were fired in their companies and turned to agriculture, they raised loans, and they raised loans, Mr. Minister, at a time when milk was 32 dinars, when the euro was between 78 and 82 dinars. Now the price of milk is 18 to 27 dinars for extra class, but believe that the price varies very much and that very few people achieve extra class of milk. You know it takes a lot of things, somatic cells, bacteria, freezing, when there's a lot of milk, find any reason to knock down the price. That's a fact. I hope you'll agree that one of the problems is that we don't have an independent lab. I think it's necessary and that it has to be done seriously by the Ministry, that we have to have an independent lab as soon as possible. We don't doubt your ill intentions, but we doubt the government's bad intentions. I believe it's hard for you to fight for the budget. A lot of ministries, a small cake, but I have to say something for the public: there can be no session in our parliament that we do not have any new credit to be owed to Serbia. We're raising loans to cover public enterprises' debts, now we've got a loan from the Russian Federation to cover our budget gaps. Imagine if we got 200 million euros in credit for you to pump into our farm. I think the government must turn far more seriously to agriculture, to give you support, because, above all, it is in the interest of all citizens, and you can see that our villages remain desolate. It could once have been nice to live off agriculture, we're convinced that we can still live on well from agriculture, but that, in any case, there should be more understanding and that we need to focus more seriously on our agricultural producers. We have another problem, where currently only registered agricultural holdings and professional farmers receive subsidies. In particular, I think, when it comes to organic production, that you should include both agricultural cooperatives and all agricultural companies that are registered and whose basic activity is agriculture. You said yourself that you don't have the money right now to support something like that, but when it comes to organic production, I don't think it's a big area, and you might be able to get your strength in and out of people's lives. I hope you will understand our discussions today very well-intentionedly, that you will look at our amendments. I think there's room for a lot of amendments and adoption, in the interest of our farmers. Note, the SRS believes that the surplus that we are accomplishing can be three times bigger and that we can provide our farmers with a decent life and that as many young people as possible remain in the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38675	We thank you, too. Minister Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38676	I'd like to thank you for a good discussion. What is important is to mention once again, the Ministry of Agriculture received a 25% higher budget this year than last year. First of all, I must thank our country president, Mr. Boris Tadic, who advocated it, and Prime Minister Mirk Cvetkovic. The Ministry of Agriculture intends to spend up to the last dinar of the budget exclusively on professional registered agricultural producers, people who are in the field from morning to evening, or in stables, orchards, vegetables or what they do. Unfortunately, we no longer have the resources to subsidize someone outside that category. What's important is that we finance only those farmers who are smaller, who can't do it alone, can't do it without the help of the state. As long as we don't have much more significant resources, we will only support this group of farmers. Every year we increase subsidies, we pay regularly, unlike the countries in the environment, where perhaps larger subsidies exist, but are paid by two years late. We are trying to pass as soon as possible the laws of the European Corps of Law and thus help small farmers. Everything we do, all the way to the last dinar we have is directed towards these people. Of course, there are always differences between them. Those in marginal areas have to get more and more softer criteria than those in the richer parts of the country. That's how we're gonna keep doing it. Thank you very much for your support.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-09-0.u38677	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We have exhausted all the registered speakers on the list of parliamentary groups. If Mr. Zeljko Brestovsky doesn't come forward for a word, I'm concluding a common and unique principled search. We will continue on Tuesday, April 13, 2010, at 10:00 p.m. Have a good weekend. Remember the atmosphere we left, I hope we find it when we arrive on Tuesday.
