ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-01-0.u47779	Dear People's MPs, today is December 1st, World AIDS Day. In Serbia, more than 4,000 people live with HIV, including 47% of young people aged 15-29. Sensitivity for prevention activities and people living with HIV The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has shown by forming a parliamentary group consisting of nine MPs, which is tasked with informing state institutions about the issues and problems that it considers priority for people living with HIV during the creation of a national strategy and other relevant documents. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has responded to the Interparliamentary Union's call to mark this day in our Assembly, and I would like to inform you that this occasion will be held on Monday, December 6, 2010, in a small hall of the House of the National Assembly, starting at 9.00 p.m., a parliamentary seminar on the subject: "The role of parliaments and parliamentarians in creating an effective response to HIV". Let's order today from this place that people with HIV live with us, that as a society we owe them no support, let's not let them fight us and our prejudices. We continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 73 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I would ask the MPs to insert the cards into the MPs' units. At this point, there are 86 of you, or 90 of you, so I'm guessing there are working conditions. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Aleksandra Jankovic and Miroslav Markicevic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representatives of Proposed Minister Milan Markovic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, I have also called for the members to attend Vladana Jovic, Assistant Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government, and Slavica Stisovic, Head of the Group at the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE COUNTRY OF State Administration (principles) You have adopted the bill submitted by the Government. You've received a report from the Justice and Administration Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups of MPs in a proportionate number of MPs in the following way: a parliamentary group for European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; a parliamentary group of SRS - one hour 7 minutes and 12 seconds; a parliamentary group of G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; a parliamentary group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; a parliamentary group of DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; a parliamentary group of SPS - 18 minutes; a parliamentary group of LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; a parliamentary group of New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; an ambassador group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and a parliamentary group of PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to file an application for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent: MP Đuro Peric, MP of the PUPS; MP Zoran Kasalovic, MP of the SPS-JS; MP Milica Radovic, MP of the DSS – Vojislav Kostunica, MP Zoran Krasic, MP of the SRS. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does the proposer's representative, Mr Milan Markovic, Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-01-0.u47780	Thank you, esteemed president of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this draft law on amendments and additions to the State Administration Act has two objectives. One, as you can see from Article 2, refers to adapting the provisions of the law to new provisions relating to higher education. What is essential is in Article 1 of this bill and concerns, in practice, the affirmation of the development of government in Serbia. As you know, the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government launched a project two and a half years ago concerning the automation of the parent book publishing process, i.e. the establishment of a central register of parent books in the Republic of Serbia. The process essentially has several stages, each bearing some of the benefits for the citizens and the state. The first stage is that by establishing a single system, it is possible for each citizen to take their birth certificates out anywhere, in any municipal administration in the Republic of Serbia, independent of the home area in which his home book is being run. The second stage, at the same time with this, the law contains provisions that take you out of your parent books are valid indefinitely. We've changed patterns. The forms have one or more elements of protection. Now that someone takes a copy of the birth certificate, married or dead, that copy is unlimited, which makes it impossible for citizens to be harassed and that they always have to have a copy of no older than six months, which was otherwise, I would say, due to some strange practice, since there was also no time limit in previous parent books. Now, in any case, there is an explicit provision that performances apply unlimitedly. It's important until the moment the data on them changes. Thirdly, most importantly, by establishing this central system, the authorities of the state administration and local self-government units can communicate directly with the system. At this point, we have over two million entries in the system. It is a job that will last safely until mid-2012 because units of local self-government simply cannot carry out records, are not technically trained. We're working on it, but a large number of citizens are already in the system and a number of cities. In fact, it is important that this amendment of the law that we are proposing today, because it establishes a legal obligation for state authorities, i.e. the authorities of the state administration, is here specifically that in all procedures when they decide on rights, obligations, at the request of citizens, they must themselves obtain those documents that are available to them through electronic communication. What's that supposed to mean in the next few months? That would mean, when you come to the authority of the state administration, let's say the Ministry of State and you want to extract a passport, there's no right for the Ministry to ask you for a copy of the birth certificate, but it's something the state already owns, and that's why the MUP, by electronic means, is going to get that document. This legal provision, in fact, establishes a new principle in the work of the state administration's authority, which is that all documents found by the authorities of the state administration are in these registers that the state needs to create, I say, this parent is already working, almost half of them have been done, so all these documents that the state doesn't need citizens to read to them. They can have citizens, whoever wants to have home a copy of the birth certificate will be able to have it, of course. But there's no need for us as citizens to be some typewriter from one to another counter of state authorities and to bring our own documents. The whole parent-book thing means, we're all here, normal, adult, and we've had opportunities, we've met since our primary, high school, college, those who have kids, when they were enrolling in school, we've met with these parent-book copies a million times. It is likely that each of us was nervous and had to take that copy and must travel to a specific municipality to take a copy and which must be no more than six months old. So in this way we practically put all of this into the past and some future generations, simply, many people will not even know what is a copy of the parent books, because when the central register is now established, all the state authorities will handle this register without the need for citizens to participate in this registries. I sincerely hope, in a few years, when you ask a young man – do you have a birth certificate copy, he'll be looking at wonders because he won't even know what a copy of the parent books is. It's a thing that will circulate in electronic form between state authorities. They will know, say the vice presidents of the Assembly, those who have a child. Thank God, they'll know and need to know. It's a brief proposal to amend and supplement the law. There will be amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government, so that local self-government will act in the same way. Of course, it can be resented why there is no one general law that would fully regulate this. Believe it's hard to see at this point, because on the other hand, we have the Personal Data Protection Act. I've talked a lot to Mr. Shabic about this law. This and all the data that should be found in those registers are particularly sensitive from the aspect of the protection of personal data. That's why I think it's better to move gradually, but it's undeniable that we're going and we're going to make the laws easy, it's important that we move faster towards establishing these central registers. In any case, I hope that by the end of the term of office of this government, if it is long enough to be long, but there is no dilemma that indeed within a few years Serbia will have this home register, as a central database and, believe me, it may be the biggest reform of the state administration since the creation of the old Yugoslavia, to this day. So much for the opening statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-01-0.u47781	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Do the officials of the committees, Mr Ristic and Vlatko Ratkovic, want a word? Yeah. Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-01-0.u47782	Thank you, Madam President. As chairman of the Legislative Committee, I would like to say a few words about the novelties of this law. So it's practically, as we can see, about the changes of only two members. The property of a good state is certainly also a good state administration and that is what we, as a Parliament's call for two and a half years, strive for in many segments of the state administration, thanks to the ministry, which is headed by Mr Markovic. I think we've done a lot of things to improve the work of the state administration. Far from being at the level of one Bavarian or Germany or Italy in terms of quality, efficiency, openness of state administration, the quality of providing services that the state is obliged to provide to the parties, or to the citizens, but in any case this normative framework and normative frameworks that we have so far provide a good basis for improving the work of our country. Bureaucracy is something that, some say, is necessarily evil. It must exist in every system. The thing is that we reduce bureaucracy to the first nominal, i.e. numerical, one tolerable for society and on the other, the quality of work and bureaucracy to raise to a higher level, through education, through better work, through their professional skills. One member refers to harmonisation, as the minister said, with other laws, in the first place to the higher education laws, and to the harmonisation of these titles, i.e. professional preparation with the terminology relating to academic studies, master studies, specialist vocational studies, i.e. basic studies of at least four years. The second member to be added to these amendments to this law relates essentially to the obligations of the public administration authorities to use in their work and in their work with parties the data of other authorities and organisations of local self-government, the organisation of an autonomous province, and organisations entrusted with public authority. What is important here to say is that the pursuit of such data and the acquisition of data from records, i.e. registers conducted in electronic form, is done through information systems providing data security and data protection. So the key words are to support new information technologies, but on the other hand, security and data protection against the citizens to whom these data relate. The DS supports this law, supports these changes and, of course, we will define ourselves for this law in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-01-0.u47783	Who calls from the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups? Mr. Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-01-0.u47784	Madam President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we expected there to be some more serious changes in this law, but as you can see, there are little things that will change, but essentially nothing will change more in the local administration. I would now like to remind Mr. Markovic that he, as minister, violates the laws of the Republic of Serbia continuously, that he, as minister of local administration, interferes in the work of local authorities, appoints local officials, fully adjudicates local elections held in a regular and legal manner and that he literally works with the government's support of what he wants with local authorities. That's why we have this condition that's totally chaotic in the local administration. We have councilmen who literally don't know who they are, who they are, what they are, and from week to week they change, which is what the Ministry of Local Self-Government encourages them to do. I cannot understand that in the King's local government that won the elections has been changed and that the decision in court falls in all court proceedings, and that Mr. Minister himself sets up a structure that is in power, a structure that is incompetent. They used a nice period to just make some records, nothing more important to do, to make, to fix up after this earthquake that was in the King. Minister Markovic is there and co-ordinator of the whole process. How is it possible that Maja Gojkovic, with her party not participating in the election in the Kingdom, has now the largest committee group. As it is possible for someone under the order of the minister to be assigned power, and he has no connection, he was not even in the elections, he did not have a registered list and did not participate in the election campaign and anything else. How can the mandates be kidnapped to a particular political party that participated in the elections and assigned to someone who will be like them and who will build a local government with Mr Markovic's party? As possible, for example, in Žitoraj, that two parties that did not have any councilmen now have the smallest committee group. We bring in a little, we arrest, we scare, we hear, we hear, we do all that nice, and then we tell the councils -- now, come on, you get a job, you get a job, you get your family, you get credit, you get whatever you want, but you move on to the opposite. As possible, in Raca, where New Serbia has won convincingly, Dinkic comes and simply says you have a choice, either the Jura factory or the local government to move to us and the management and the president of the municipality and all of you will get Jura, otherwise no, Jura goes to another town. And of course, with Mr. Markovic's befel, it all happens illegally and ends the way it ends. Local authorities in Serbia don't look anything like anything, and now you've just brought a god-awful birth certificate copy, it can be valid permanently. It's a very important thing you've brought in and you've brought in that eventually the wages will increase, increase after New Year's Eve in local high school administration, and the cost of life, Mr. Markovic, has increased by more than 40% in Serbia. Therefore, working with the local administration is a sin, it is nowhere to be found, it is a violation of the law, it is a violation of the Constitution of the RS, and it is no longer known who is mayor, or who has won, or when they will be, or whose committees they are, or who the committees are, etc. How is it possible for your assistant to come to the municipality of Topol and to come to a meeting he said – for you are the black days because you have a mayor from New Serbia. What do you want? You want to take the mayor out of the election, and to God, you exercise authority, and every one of your powers has failed and none, and your municipalities where you are in power are the worst, and these are the biggest problems in Serbia. Why? Because it's unnatural, which the people didn't choose and that you're trying various political blackmails, various purchases, trades, jobs to take that power at all costs. Now you're sitting here, of course, in the Assembly, smiling, and already this afternoon you're going into the field and demoting several municipalities, disrupting something that's natural in a certain environment and building a government that can't do anything. Why don't you stand up as the Minister for the Local Authority for decentralisation of Governments, across municipalities, that what's earned in the municipality stays there in the municipality, and not that your municipality gets charity from the Ministry like some transfer funds, etc., and that you're blackmailing these people we're going to give these, these aren't, these are similar, these aren't similar. The municipalities where the opposition is in power are most common because you check them every day and what you don't do. And check out your municipalities, Mr. Minister, and you'll see what kind of riding is, what's chaos like there, and what's indiscipline? How do jobs get done, what are the prices? Check out the small town of Belgrade, check out the number of asphalt squares in Belgrade, and how many are on regional roads across Serbia? See the prices in Belgrade, and what are they like in Serbia? Why have you neglected certain municipalities, which are sources of income for both Belgrade and Serbia? Why have you completely destroyed the ecological and Lazarec, and Obrenovac, and many other cities throughout Serbia, with promises that you will solve their problems and you haven't solved anything? You promised in the towers of Arangel, and in the cities, you promised all things, that you might take power as you took it. And what did you do, Mr. Markovic? Nothing. What did you do in the Ojaks? You promised well-being only when you won. It'll all be honey and milk. People stayed to live in misery, accidents, misery, there's no factory that works, Mr. Markovic. There's nowhere to go for people to approach their homes. You took Verbas. You left, ran the campaign, you said you'd do anything, you'd fix everything. What does it look like today, Willbas? What happened positively in Vorbas? Nothing. Just empty promises, as usual. You kidnapped Malten Kosjeric for a councilman. What did you do? You brought them a tire burner in cement, into the purest area of Serbia near Divcibar, near Zlatibor, etc., and you build a burner for them, for God's sake, the Germans give them old tires to burn in cement that you sold in privatisation. Your party, today's Prime Minister Cvetkovic, who was the director of the Privatisation Agency. So wherever you came from, you ruined it. And now you do what you do, you kidnap municipalities, you kidnap a municipality by municipality, you take, you blackmail, you bring your people to power. You're saying there's nothing here that's in the hands of the opposition people, but when we get here, everything's gonna be okay. When you arrive, there is only chaos, riding, corruption, bribery, nerada, indiscipline, disbanding all institutions and, of course, orders that come only from Belgrade what and how to do. List one municipality in Šumadia, in Pomoravlje that works properly, where are you in power, Mr Markovic, where is your party in power? Please state, you don't have any municipalities for example. The south of Serbia has been completely destroyed. Promises, you promised in Kursumlia everything and everything. When we won in Kursumlia, when the mayor of New Serbia is now said, we won't give you anything because you didn't listen to us win, then you would have. What would they have had if you had won? Nothing, like the other municipalities. Look at the municipalities where we've been in power for years to shine, work, function, where they're on sound grounds, and if you wouldn't interfere and disturb, then everything would be in the best order. This kidnapping of the committees, the mandate of the committees, the taking of entire parliamentary groups, it is not recorded in the history of the local administration. So, Mr. Markovic, I would like to propose the additions to this law. To end the local elections. Why would the local elections, when we have such a smart minister, who knows how to go to the municipality and establish the authority that suits him? So there shouldn't be local elections. Here you are now in charge, you establish local authorities, set up the presidents of municipalities, mayors, and everything will be in order. So, take your municipalities, what you promised in Batocina, what you promised in Knic, what you promised in Kragujevac, what you promised in Šapac, what you promised in Loznica, what you promised in Užica, Mr Markovic? All the projects stopped and the tours around Užica, and the Ponikva and the local roads, everything stopped. Tell me what you did there. What you promised in Prijepolje, what you promised in Nova Varosha, what you promised in many cities where you and your coalition partners are. You promised them a lot, and you gave them nothing. So I would advise you to resign as an honorable man, perhaps someone is pressured to do what you're doing. As you are not ashamed to go to the King today, where you have taken power, where you have driven the mayor to the grave, where you now have an earthquake. Why don't you work it out over there? People sleep under tents and snow falls. You've just been making records these days, and you're gonna start in the middle of the day. So why haven't you built a house so far? How long have you had? How much money did you have on the account that Serbia gave for the King? And not you, you've had a profit in government, you've taken more from VAT than you've invested so far in the King. So how is it possible that schools don't work? How is it possible that you haven't fixed them so far, you've brought them into function, etc.? How is it possible that the hospital isn't working, how is it possible for the new hospital to crack first and get the most damage in the city? Who was building the hospital? Is he responsible? How is it possible that the maternity home is no longer for use? Well, it's an object that last one has to crash in one city, and you, Mr. Markovic, have been in power there since 2000. So people drive you to the election, and you take power again, and you've taken local power five or six times since 2000 to this day. In a variety of ways. So why do you care so much? Let's bring the government's regulation, as you rules rule, so that there will never be any local elections in the King again. You set it up, brother, because you're doing it anyway. You've got your incompetent crew out there who doesn't know what to do with themselves. You've brought an artist from Kosovo to lead you the city of Kraljevo, he's a man of art historian, he has no idea about construction, nothing, you've set him up to lead, coordinate, and that's why you have these problems you have. That's why you have all over Serbia the problems you have. So, Mr. Markovic, don't be a stranger here right now. To God, Ilic is saying something, and he's not talking about it being an improvement, because a copy of the parent book will be valid permanently, but I'm asking a fundamental question, why are you as a minister interfering with local administration, and why do you, as a minister of regulations, violate judicial decisions? You violate the Supreme Court's decisions, you violate the decisions of the courts, which you have appointed and kidnapped, and you place your people. Is that okay? Why are you breaking the law and the Constitution? Why do you cancel local elections that regularly take place in Serbia? Why do you want power where the people don't want you? It means where the people won't. As it is possible for parties to come to power that did not have any council members in the elections, they have not passed the censorship. How can they come to power from parties that did not participate in the local elections? That's a question for you, Mr. Markovic. You'll have to answer this question eventually. To go public and tell me, Minister Markovic, for local administration, I violate the Constitution and the law, and I set up listeners throughout Serbia according to my will and will of my coalition partners, not the will of the people in the elections. Is it possible that someone who wins the local election doesn't have any councilmen? How is that possible? That's what you, Mr. Markovic, at the bar you have to clear up and clear up. No, you go to the cities, you promise everything, and when you take power, you don't know what you're going to do with it. Therefore, I advise you not to do this anymore, that what you've done has crossed all limits and limits and that someone for what you've done will have to answer eventually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-01-0.u47785	The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-01-0.u47786	Of course, if there were no TV transmissions, I certainly wouldn't have responded, because this is an amazing 16-minute discussion. It's hard to understand what you said, except that people laughed, it's not clear to anyone what you're talking about in general. It's not the first time. The problem is there's a TV feed here and someone can think seriously about what you're talking about. The Supreme Court in Serbia, I don't know what you mean. At this point our court order is so, there is no Supreme Court, it existed before. As far as these committee groups are concerned, I don't know if you're talking about your coalition partner sitting on your right. They didn't participate in the election, and they sit here. I see amendments here, I see thousands of things. I don't know what you're talking about, unless you're saying the King's earthquake caused the DS. Kostunica may have caused an earthquake in the King, well perhaps you have, and who drove whom into the grave. You really don't have much of a measure. You're on your way, and you're out of control. The previous mayor, Jovasevic Ljubisa, a doctor, there was a man alive and healthy, on TV the other day, similar to you, has the habit of speaking. Generally, I don't know what the point of your reporting is. Unlawful congregations. There was a Constitutional Court decision, neither I made it, nor I invented it, and I warned this Parliament and the public two years ago that it had to change the Law on selecting a councilman. I warned you, the Constitutional Court's decision will come and there will be problems. No one listened to me. The Constitutional Court's decision has come that the mandates belong to the committees, which I can now do with whether Mr. Mladjan Dinkic will leave or not. Mladjan Dinkic is a colleague of mine in the government, he does his job, I do my job, and we have no dots in our work. As for the setting up of these temporary organs, Mr. Ilic, while I was in power with you, we placed temporary organs in such a way that they were complete from the ruling coalition. Since the new constitution and new law, we have been watching only three of the coalitions in power in the government, and two are taking care of the proportions of parties that were previously in parliament. It's established by the constitution and the law and what I have to do with who's going to be set up. It's a provisional government body and this year, if I'm not mistaken, only one municipality is disbanded and I can't generally understand 16 minutes of what you said, that we have time now, so let's take a nice look at the sentence, to have a nice smile, just it would be good if there was no TV transmission. As for the Kings, Mr. Ilic, except that we caused an earthquake and that we are guilty of all the monsters in Serbia, not only in the King, it is, the flood is our fault, etc., so there is a procedure, Mr. Ilic, that can't do it on the o-arm. I can't come in here right now, and there's an earthquake, and tomorrow they're building houses, and I don't know what. There are procedures that must be respected. There's something called engineers, it's construction professions. They also have to determine 16,000 damage objects, they have to do projects, they have drawings, they have a project, what, what. I'm a lawyer, and I don't know that. There is that, believe me. Therefore, everything has its own time and procedure. I'm ready to take every responsibility. Mr. Ilic, I've been a minister for three years, and I've been with you in government, and now I'm a minister. Here, now there will be a government reconstruction, maybe I won't be a minister, I'm ready, believe me, to take every responsibility for everything from the first day to today. Not one single thing in my ministry has been done illegally. No decommissioning of local self-government units has been illegally arranged. No temporary authority has been illegally arranged. As far as the Kings are concerned, I do my best, just as I do my best as far as Preshev, Bujanovec and Bear are concerned. You don't think it's good, one day the government will change, go ahead, join my ministry and line everything up, let's say what's right. I'm prepared in every way possible to be responsible for my work and in front of the public, and in front of the authorities, and I don't know what it is. It's great for you, you get up and tell the story. I don't know what you started and what you ended up with your story. I was just watching the O.R., and I don't know if anyone here knows what you were gonna say. You're all alive, from Mladjan Dinkic, earthquakes, local self-government, parent books, you made it all in 16 minutes to explain, the monster, we promised this, we promised that. Unlike you, we promised, you never promised anything, and you kept everything more than you promised, and now what? The people chose us. What do we do now? There will be another election, if you're right, the people will choose you. He will remember all the beauty while you were the minister of infrastructure, he will remember your relationship with the public, your relationship with the press, your fine conduct, your expression, everything the people will remember and want you as the sun wants and will say – here we are voting for Velija Ilic. There is no problem, and then you will be able to solve this with these MPs who did not participate in the elections, or political parties, and you will be able to get them out of parliament nicely, be as principled as you were in this discussion. So, I'd like to ask you if you could say a word about this law on parent books, since that's the subject of the agenda. If you won't, I have no intention of answering your monologues anymore. I'll try not to laugh, although I see a lot of people laughing here, but that's a question for you, not for me, you need to think about why you came to the situation that when you talk mostly people laugh. Think about it because you've been in politics for 20 years, and you deserve more than that. You've brought yourself into the situation that you've become, and I'm now reporting to answer you exclusively under the pressure that the cameras are on. Your presentations, since I've been sitting here following you, really don't deserve any more answers, except those ridicules you'll see on the faces of the people who listen to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-01-0.u47787	Mrs. Snow White Sedlar.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-01-0.u47788	This is a replica and a propo mention of my municipality, the municipalities from which I come, the municipalities of Odjaks. So, we all know that on January 24th, early local elections were held in the Ojac municipality. In late March, a stable coalition government was formed. So, all the campaign promises brought by the coalition authority at the head of the DS, the party I belong to, the G17 plus and the SPS, you're fulfilled. At present, the gasses are being introduced, and the Ojacs have never been a larger construction site. Projects concerning the industrial zone are being completed. The trip to the work zone has been completed. Small and medium-sized enterprises are opening up. It's got a mammogram for home health, etc. All due to the citizens of Odjak, who see it daily and who see that the Odjaks have indeed become one construction site and see that investors are being brought in and the climate is being created, business advice has been established, etc. On Monday, we have the first presentation of a local employment action plan. We are promoting active employment measures. I'm the president of that body. So we do it all the time and we want the citizens to be happy with us, and the elections will show how it will be. As for the representatives of some parties, such as the SNS, who unfortunately lost one councilman, he will become a board member of Maja Gojkovic and form with us, and what we can do, that is.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-01-0.u47789	The Rules of Procedure are being advertised by Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-01-0.u47790	I advertise Article 107 - speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Madam President, Velimir Ilic said it is a shame that an artist from Kosovo is the mayor of the Kings and that Milan Markovic brought him to power. I think you should have interrupted him and warned him. I ask that at the vote, we make a statement as to whether the Rules of Procedure and the dignity of all MPs have been injured, because it is a shame that someone in this way offends all MPs. Why is the problem that anyone was born in Kosovo? Is it a problem that he was born in Vojvodina or Belgrade or in Shumadia? Why is that a problem? Please make it known to the National Assembly. Also, the lies he had spoken, that he had not been in power for 10 years in the King, were all 10 years. For the first time, the DS has a mayor in the King and rightly responds to the consequences of the earthquake. A million and 200,000 creps were placed in three days, and after 11 days he remembered that there was an earthquake in the King and came to help his members. I don't think the citizens of the Kings deserve this, and I ask you not to let all citizens of Serbia be offended in this way. Mr. Velimir Ilic was in power in the King when the Car Factory was privatized, and he was in power in the Republic. It is known that the result of these privatisations is such a bad situation in the economy of kings and citizens themselves cannot repair their homes. He knows it very well, but he's trying to disabling the public. Please don't let that happen, at least these insults he's making.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-01-0.u47791	Dear Members, on many occasions, I have directed Mr. Ilic on a subject that is on the agenda. I'm really not able to do it in a way that would give different results, but what's really going on.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-01-0.u47792	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected presidents, respected citizens of Serbia, especially the Kings, regarding the presentation of my colleague, I really do not want to interfere with that part of the discussion between the minister and the head of the parliamentary group, they will make it clear, but it is extremely incorrect to say that the members of New Serbia are on the 11th day, first not on the 11th day but on the seventh day, to be precise, but what has been said that the members of New Serbia have been helping their members, it is simply not true and the citizens of the Kings know it. The house, the mayor of Topola, or the president of the municipality of Topola, was started in Ibarska Street, and he went to the mayor of the Kings. We received information through the Social Labour Centre who is currently the most vulnerable in the King and we chose that. That's what we did in Sirca, and that's how we did in the village of Popovici, where we just helped the family who moved from Kosovo, we don't separate the people who were born and thus help the family whose house was completely damaged, the multi-member family. So let's not be false. If there are any disagreements here about how the local self-government elections are being held, there's no need to react so that we've been partying, it's incorrect, it's unfair. We members of New Serbia and the president of New Serbia have just given help to absolutely people who have nothing to do with the party, and this can be easily checked and to clarify the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-01-0.u47793	People's MP Velimir Ilic advertises a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Although, Mr. Spasojevic, you didn't say which member was injured. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-01-0.u47794	I think there's a injured member here - the dignity of the Rules of Procedure, because I've experienced the insults I've received from certain... Just a little attention, please. First, I did not talk about parliamentary mandates, which was spoken of by the minister, but I was clear and loud about the parliamentary mandates and the local administration. So, I wasn't talking about MPs, I was talking about councilmen who are mass-absorbing all over Serbia. The other thing is, we came to the King right away. I'm 15 kilometers from the King with my facilities. The first day after the earthquake, I offered accommodation for 50 families to the mayor himself, and all the help we had sent to the mayor in person and told him it was through the crisis headquarters. He gave us instructions on where to send what we give, etc. It is very incorrect and hypocritical that you do and abuse the King for political purposes, and nothing is practically done on the ground. I repeat, I am revolutionized that people, now that the snow is falling, sleep in the King's tents, and there have been many beautiful days. Mr. Minister, I led the construction of Jasa Tomic, the rinks, Bogdanje, among others. 460 houses done in three months. You know how it's projected in walking when someone's house is torn down. You know how to make notes. It is known that the house marked with a red bolt is not covered, etc., that I am not teaching you that. I reacted why the municipalities were being kidnapped. We've been kidnapped by a councilman in Novi Sad and it's a turning point. That's how you made power. The councilman's gone, no one could find him anymore. We just lost our councilman, we're looking for him at home, he's nowhere to be found, etc. That's how you made the local authorities, and that's why you're gonna get away with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-01-0.u47795	Time. Mr. Ilic, honourable MPs, I would ask that no one be the subject spoken of in this high house in this way. The word is by MP Zoran Kasalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-01-0.u47796	Dear Presidents, Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the SPS, realizing the importance of effective functioning of the state administration for each state, is also seen and advocated that the state administration must be efficient, deberocratic, departisan and cheap, equally professional, very rationally organised, competent and responsible. We believe that all reforms and modernisations of the state administration must go in the direction of professional training of civil servants, who in this way and in such status will impartially apply the law and conduct the procedure. Of course, they should be open and accessible to citizens, and only such a state administration will be strong enough to prepare for the state of Serbia to enter full EU membership. This draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on State Administration has only three members, but it is indeed an introduction to very important and significant changes in the state administration, namely one process that begins, in particular from the creation of home records, and we believe that this process should indeed be invested in its own strength, because it will make it easier for the parties to be in the process in the Republic of Serbia and to avoid situations in which, unfortunately, we were all once, at some point later, that when we address any or a certain state body with a request, we are in a position to get a large list of necessary documents, assurances, confirmations and that we are often tempted to, if not very important and significant, give up. Of course, this is the goal and desire of all citizens and this process in this sense and it begins with this bill and, as we have already heard, it obliges the authority of the state administration to keep an eye on and obtain all available data from other authorities, which, by law, keep records of these data. It means local self-government, autonomy entities and all other bodies that keep such records. Unfortunately, at this point, we're only talking about available data and documents. Of course it's an idea and a wish, and the SPS supports such an idea, that this circle of data that will be in circulation, which will be held by state authorities, will be as widespread and as extensive as possible. This law also, in this way, in the good part, stimulates and implements information technologies in the state administration, and there is no doubt that it will lead to the full extent of improving the position of parties in the coming period, as it will shorten that time to obtain the necessary data, therefore, that physical distance will also be revealed. Of course, certain savings in time will also be achieved, and this is a good way to depose every type of bureaucracy in a negative sense from the functioning of the state administration. Considering that this is a process that needs to be brought to life, which should achieve its full results in due course in due time, and above all one more efficient and cheaper state administration that will serve all citizens and be available to all parties in the process, and thus will be prepared and strengthened in full by our institutions for full membership in the EU, the SAA and the JS will support this law in principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-01-0.u47797	The magistrate, Jorgenka Tabaković, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-01-0.u47798	The Americans say -- the obvious facts don't need to be discussed, so, Mr. Minister, based on the mandate, the blank resignations and the rest, and the ones sitting on the left or right, I really don't want to waste any time, because today we have a more important topic. Your law amending only two members and a third entry into force, Serbia's SNS should be complemented, according to the assessment of the Group of MPs, as far as Serbia's SNS is concerned. We don't dispute his good intentions. It should be brought into line with the possibilities that provide modern electronic communications with those changes concerning titles and titles in line with Bologna, i.e. new titles in the studies that enable our colleges. However, if you say in Article 75 that a state administration authority in the process of exercising its rights should obtain data from records and registers run by other authorities of the state administration, we have nothing to object to, but we believe that you have shown one dose of insufficient caution, I will not use a more difficult word, by failing to define how to use and obtain such data and make it available to them. We, as someone who appreciates and respects Serbia's citizens, have given you the amendment that the authorities of the state administration in the position I have just read can only look into and obtain the data necessary to resolve, or the applicant calls for them, with the mandatory recording of the insights and reasons for the data in records and registers, except for those data that are in public books and are publicly available. You'll agree that's precision. We're really not changing anything from a previous member. Your positions 2 and 3 become points 3 and 4. What we also find important in detail is that when administrative proceedings are being conducted, you yourself are witnessing that many laws leave parties in a second degree of opportunity, not even an appeal, but the conduct of a purely administrative procedure, and that in these procedures, they really decide on the essential rights and obligations of natural and legal persons. We believe that only a civil servant who has acquired a second-degree higher education should be authorised, i.e. a graduate master of academic studies or higher education, acquired in accordance with the rules applicable until the date of entry into force of the Law on Higher Education, in which they are equated with the academic calling of masters, i.e. by name. We'll talk about this more precisely when they're amended, but what's important? We must not allow the interpretations to be individual in some case, when the party feels damaged and believe it or not, it may occur in the proceedings of a party having more education to decide on an officer who is at an education and level lower than that party and we must not allow the interpretation of that day of a voluntary or arbitrary or certain angle of view by an officer in the Ministry of Education or any other authorised authority to decide on it. I'd like to say that you as minister in charge of this are quite precise about how these titles can be balanced, given the former system in force and the one that is now in force. The announcement of this topic, which speaks about the state administration and the quality of the state administration at all, I would really use it because I heard that today we will only have this point on the agenda and that the time at my disposal by using the story of the state administration. I don't want you to take it as an objection to either the individuals or this authority right now, but the questions I want to raise in front of all of us as a society. I want to hear who's being heard, who doesn't want to hear it doesn't have to, but to ask ourselves as serious people some questions that I wouldn't even open up if it wasn't for too much transparency for students sitting around a government building, wondering if there was money in this country to finish the studies of those who were good students, they realized the conditions that someone had promised, that the law was precise or imprecise, so they damaged those who in the previous school year or until January passed all the exams, and it went hand to someone else. Why am I opening these questions? The government's got a face, too. It's got a face. The debate that we started this agenda today tells us that this parliament, but also the world, is simply experiencing a battlefield where competitors should be destroyed. I use the old word competition or political competition on purpose, because we're not enemies to each other. Those who experience politics in this way and this life should not represent Serbia's future. I find it very easy to seduce citizens and people at all. Whether it's some real values or it's about promoting false values. I advocate promoting true values, and they are the knowledge and youth that we must recognize and support, because that is the only way we can have a quality state administration and survive as a state and as a people. You will admit that few remember who was Prime Minister or Police Minister or Minister of Finance at the time of famous painters, writers, inventors and scientists. It is up to us to identify those who love to participate in public life, and above all on you who have a budget and you make laws, to recognize these young and valuable people by their minds, by their talents, by their organizational abilities, and to enable them to handle themselves, but not to push them and to put them into a seal. I repeat, don't take this personally, or you as a minister, but you're in charge of the quality of the state administration. When we find such young people, the least we have to do is support them and admire them, if we don't admire our senses and knowledge, we try to defile them. In any area of life, we don't promote good value. The whole world is a victim of greed, and it is proven by economists and politicians who are statesmen and everyone knows that the bloated balloons value of action led to a financial crisis, that the greed of those who have always been little led to everyone's suffering. Let me, as serious people, political competitors and those who have the opportunity to fight for children in public, we are happy to have them, or to have other people's children, but smart and valuable, to really fight and to focus on them both attention and resources, but we also admire those who deserve it. How are we going to help these young people, who should be patient and thrilled with the ability to change something in their own country? Are we going to show that we can't run the country and do more of ourselves, that we're going to hide the problems we have, or that we're going to talk openly in a society about problems that are very serious in the state administration? There are them in other areas of life, but they are the most visible here, and when it comes to corruption and when it comes to Serbia's position as a competitive country, it always points to the state administration first. I worked at the state administration, I was a minister, just like you. I have every right to speak of it and to recognize that the problems have not changed since we took part in power until today, when that authority is being exercised by you. It is true that the government satisfies the lowest human impulses, which is to rule other people, but not all ministers are not, nor are all those who exercise power guided by such impulses. I will always support ministers who want to leave a mark and seal by improving the quality of the administration they run. Do you have time and strength for that and do you even focus on some law by distracting you from many things at once, on many jobs, and around you are always the servants, the smart ones who tell you in the first month of your reign – the ministers know everything, you are able, you have power, they pat you on the back and they say that you get into things so quickly, and you are aware that you are faced with a lot of newspapers and that you can't, you want to do the best of yourself, but you need your associates. Those who are expert, they are hard to obey, they want to be the other line that changes ministers and that the state administration stands on them, and that the ministers come and go, and that these chiefs or assistants remain the majority of bureaucracy that will decide the fates of many citizens. So I know that it is not easy for you as ministers, and there is a solution, a deaccumulation of functions through what is called advice and many competences, so that you can personally devote yourself to your work and choose the highest quality associates because it shows your quality. An educated, full-bodied man who has knowledge always happily selects capable associates who have to keep under control because they know very easily that they are being kidnapped and that they are doing state and public affairs in their own best interests. That's why you need to have the opportunity to monitor the associates you choose. Sadly, many today play with politics as soldiers played as children. Many wish to be police ministers or prison managers because they are not adults as politicians and mature as statesmen. Many would only want to cut off the hydrant heads of corruption and abuse, but let's see how many laws we create conditions to create negative phenomena called corruption, abuse of public authority or superficiality in laws. I'll take the freshest example. In Novi Sad, he starts doing something that is the Consumer Protection Agency. The first observation is that the consumer complains within a reasonable period of time according to the type of objection or advertising it makes. What's a reasonable deadline? A reasonable deadline is a stretching category, we warned you when we passed laws. So, the state administration, the one who, by your order, prepares a law in accordance with the intrinsics that you as a political party present in campaigns or public appearances, must close those cracks that tomorrow open ambitions of arbitraryness, discretionary rights of individual employees in public administration. If the opposition warns you, and you do not hear, I will return to that first finding – it is not Parliament's battlefield in which to face bad, but rather good ideas. The warnings of this species should be accepted here because we are all working to improve the lives of citizens. But from the habits created, so I have to admit, taken over from the world, politicians invest in their ruler, court the people. They're often used by cunning, but they're rich and forceful to come to power. Why is this power so interesting? Not only does it encourage the urge to rule over others and to use power, but also because of all the privileges that power offers. Because you are able to hire many of your party associates, friends, but I advocate that you employ those young ones, mentioned at the outset, distinguished by talent, knowledge, intelligence and production of some lasting values, both mind and material and spiritual. Old philosopher Jules Paio would say - let's let the last be the first. When he says the last thoughts they are invisible and valuable, not those who are mostly in the front lines of political parties, ready to take any place, regardless of whether they know any branch of administration, what knowledge and experience they have, believing that reality is so simple and that problems in society are so easy to solve. Unfortunately, the reality is very complex, the problems are multiplying, and first of all, it is easy to understand, notice and leave consequences for many citizens. The minister said - we have an electronic copy. I remind him, according to the I.D., you're still obliged to bring a birth certificate. Why didn't one of his associates tell him, or he didn't think anyone would hear, and why didn't you agree at the time of modern electronic communications attitudes, the moment we talked about sickle, cut regulations, or comply with regulations? This requires a serious state administration in which they work quality rather than defending themselves by party membership, both yesterday and today, and tomorrow, it must not be a criterion, nor protection, nor any excuse for liability or poor and unprofessional work. I have to admit that the higher the man's power is getting smaller. He knows best, for example, the minister or, for example, the president of the state. I don't want to mention any names. They themselves know how much their orders and their power are hidden to those officers who need to enforce the laws, apply them, and for the people, the only proof is the power of power, the application of the law in real life. All these people who, through party membership, through a recognised parliamentary struggle or elections when they come to power, are surrounded by various flatterists, people who are skillfully able to bind, bind and bind the causes and consequences, and then through that story the minister knows everything, let me inform him about it, protecting ministers from what is their job, we in this country perfected the confiscation of powers to ministers and state, by opening up agencies, there employed various nameless and unknown people, who are known only to tax authorities, by how high wages they receive, when they report income taxes to citizens, or when they are obliged to register a property card. Let me give you the paradigm of it, I will mention the unfortunate episode with Mr. Novic Urosevic, who is known as a kind of singer, and who only suffered why his name is known, but by talent and singing. He had to resign on a board of directors, because his name is known to all of us who love folk music. How many unnamed have gotten through to supervisory, administrative and various committees, receiving privileges, without quality, without contributing to these citizens and to this state? Who's gonna talk about it and who's gonna point to it? The terror of the press, or the courtship of public opinion, what do those who run the state administration and run the government tend to do? They only want to say what the press advises or becomes victims of the terror of the press through public courtship, so they can’t even do their job. Whose job is everything I've brought down, rather than all of us together. Not one party, not one political party, not one mandate, not one. It's a job for all of us, as a society, because we cannot allow ourselves to be a slave to public opinion. We need to create better public opinion, by promoting the right values. Yes, and electronic communications, and the use of data for the purpose of which this law does not work, but control of these data, and above all control of knowledge and education and assistance, and can make the most of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-01-0.u47799	Time. Ambassador Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-01-0.u47800	Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, I am constantly ignored by anyone who comes from the government. Here, there's no Markovic. He kept listening, when I showed up, he ran away. Okay, anyway, this is addressed to citizens, not so much to those who are in power, because if you were to remind now everything the Serbian Radical Party warned about, here you are now here to confirm everything the Serbian Radical Party has timelessly indicated. Since it was a story of stealing a mandate, you're right and it's good that you admit it. All those who were complicit in stealing the Serbian Radical Party's mandate and today have admitted it is an unfair job. That 21st term. But since we are now talking about the electronic administration, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, I would ask you to come and look at the National Assembly website and look at the schedule of MPs per party. Those who spoke before me continue to be members of the Serbian Radical Party. Do you know that? For two years, they've convinced the nation that the villages have washed away, so they're clean, so they're some others, so for ten million, they'd also deliver Mladic, and then each of the following depends on how much money. Who made them? Ask Boris Tadic. Ask Montgomery. Ask that American ambassador, and ask who gave the money. Now Velimir Ilic, everything he said was right, stealing mandates in municipalities, was late remembered. When he hurt, then he remembered everything, but we warned you in time. Let me tell you, in 2006, after the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Venice Commission, when you call on everything and everything, it is said – it has to be 102nd position 2 because there is one Bogoljub Karic who steals the mandates of money. Here, now he's a coalition partner. Now you say Junior's stealing mandates. The young man until two months ago said the mandates belong to the party, so when he got a slap from the European Union he says – now it's an unhindered right of the MP. You're all referring to the same thing, and you don't know what it says. You are calling again to use your argument on the Protocol with the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which was amended in accordance with Protocol No 11 and 20 March 1952. Article 3 is, I remind you, also because of Ksenija and other things, the right to free elections, so listen to what the European Union says about free elections: the high sides of the contract commit themselves to holding free elections with a secret vote at appropriate times, under conditions that provide free expression of the opinion of the people in the choice of legal bodies. Where does it say that Pera, Djoca can be the owner of the mandate? Where does that say? Where'd you find that? In free-thinking interpretations by Bosko Ristic and Nenad Konstantinovic, and I think the sparrows on the branch know that what they get into is drying up. It's permanently dry. It can't be recovered. Only the SRS doesn't steal a mandate. When someone comes and says – I would like to be a member of the SRS, but to take the mandate, we tell him – thank you, he can't, forbidden. It was first done in 1993 in this room with an MP from the Kilibardine party. He was told it wasn't moral, and we don't accept it. You, if necessary, remember the morals and the electoral will of the citizens. Sometimes you miss Gonzales, and sometimes it's not a good Gonzales. Now you don't agree with Gonzales, in 1996 you were suited to Gonzales and were very fond of Canet Subotic's money, 500 thousand marks that he brought to hold the protests. Let's just remind ourselves of some things, because two years ago you smiled, so the match played in front of you. So, just as it was in 2006 with Karic, he didn't participate in the elections, and he has MPs, he has local authority, etc. Today it is the same thing, except it is not Karic, it is another Karic. Does he finance abroad, whether he's being financed by mobsters, it doesn't matter. Whoever gave the money, he controls both the government and the opposition, except the SRS. Now let's get back to this high-minded, I hope you're interpreting this as being commended, for finally admitting everything you've been messing up for these two years, to weaken the SRS and Vojislav Seselj in The Hague tribunal. Well, cricket, that's impossible, you know. How is that possible? You can see for yourself that it's not possible, but it's good that you admit it. Of course, you have to turn on the TV tonight. So, from half past three to half, there's going to be a status conference. It will probably be on RTS, likely on Copernicus TV, to hear you in the hall and Serbian citizens what Seselj survives in The Hague tribunal, that's what Serbia survives here with this power. Now, to go with this law. Article 2 says education names should be changed according to Bologna. To remind you again, the only party who voted against Bologna was the SRS. Seeing some student support telegrams now give Cedomir Jovanovic, Vojislav Kostunica, I am simply disgusted. I'm disgusted. This is the natural consequence of Bologna. I tell the students – you are free of charge in front of the government, go to the Dedinje in front of Boris Tadic's house and just ask that in the same way you go to school as Boris Tadic, and not what happened, burn the students with European values to protest. Who set them on fire? The one who went to school for free, so the kids don't know, so they're fighting for European standards. Now parents need to pay, and they don't even have bread. Poor people. Let's get these worse students and born to understand, but how do we figure this out, there are more points in Bologna than there should be and the state says again – we don't have the money. What, kids are like communal services? We don't have money for building land, we don't have money for children. So, you're surviving the consequences of Serbia's ghastly leading to ruin. Then you wonder what's going on. the natural consequence of DOS policy. This is nature, this is legality. Legislative. Now you're gonna change your name, I agree. Who's allowed to join the state service or the judiciary of someone who's finished, call, some law school in Vesne Vodalić, or don't know who? You saw for yourself that people changed their biography. They're not building engineers anymore, they're managers. Ended in the meantime schools in Grocko, etc. Do you know what kind of problems parents have to do to hire kids who finished some private schools there? Let's not admit the state authorities to that school education, but private ones. They say you're done, that's out of the question. Forget it. You remember when we changed the Law on Higher Education a few months ago, so when the data was presented how many people were doctoring at one of those colleges. He's a doctor. He's more of a doctor than a graduate. Yes, it is. I think Professor Shami was reading that data. Then we wonder what's happening to us. It's the natural consequence of one crash. Now, because of the birth certificate, we're changing the State Administration Act. What you wrote in article 1. The Law on Amendments and Supplements, in its essence, is the matter of the Law on General Administrative Procedure. You came to and said – two state bodies communicate with each other. Everything inside is about the process and the evidence value of something that exists in electronic form. Missed the law. Absolutely missed the law. All that is in the new Article 75a concerns the General Administrative Procedure Act. But what's worth it, we don't have that piece of legislation, the Secretariat. You know, since 2001, how'd it go? Pearla Zivkovic was a secretary. Oh, man, don't let me talk to you any further. He's gone, legal system. He's in sync? Oh, he's not in sync, he's devastated, totally. Every lice in the village. Every organ is a state for itself. Now, because there's a possibility that the computer can see it from the birth certificate, we're changing this as an epochal success. Who's going to present it? Milan Markovic. The first democratic president of the Palilu municipality. The EU or someone else gave money to make the municipality modern, made a counter room. That's where they were supposed to end it. Do you know when someone is prone to crime, and we have criminal authority, you can give me a warning, but that's what everyone's saying right now. Citizens talk, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic. (President: I remind you. I do not give you any warning, but I do warn you to take care. Galup's research is talking. Why? (President: Please, you can't talk like that. You can't talk about any man, say he's a criminal, until it's proven. I said the government is criminal, not individual. (President: Please, criminal authority and such a way of finding out how you do it really degrades the state. Please, don't take it easy on me. Take care of the terms you use. ) Mrs. Djukić Dejanovic, you do not want to listen to me. No, I'm not delirious with you, I'm just quoting what people have written, whose opinion you care about, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic. Did you hear Gallup's research say what was going on? It used to be 150, 160, 159 euros for bribery, now raised to 255 euros. If what you really meant to me, you had to go to the Media Center and arrest all those who said it publicly. There was also a representative of you dear EU. He was just quoting what I was saying in the congregation. I gave it as an attitude, as an opinion. They took it all well, so they collected it, took it, and gave it statistics. You're shaking off their statistics, not shaking when I warn you in advance. That's what people published. (President: Mr Krasic, I am not shaking, but I remind you that the draft law amending and supplementing the State Administration Act is on the agenda. I'm absolutely not shaking. That's exactly what Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic is doing. Except you don't listen to what I'm saying. There's no MP who's more on the agenda than I am, you know. If you don't believe me, ask Mrs. Comic. She knows that. That's why I said, "Where are you lucky for Gordan to preside?" Then it would go according to democratic standards. Can I go on without shaking you so much? Look, let's move on, take it easy. And our hockey players are playing in the Slovenian league, so that's that flying replacement. This is a bodi-check. Okay. Thank you, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, we can move on. So, when people tend to benefit from the ability to use an electronic database, whether it's government bodies, local self-government authorities or organizations entrusted with public authority, then chaos can occur. So it's not a law issue and a legal solution, the problem is a specific composition of human material that works on the right jobs. Why did I use Palilu? In 2001, it was a major development affair. Mrs. Comic, do you know who was involved in this big building affair? You know. All officials in the cabinet of the President of the Republic of Serbia, please. Why is it the wrong law to intervene? See which terms are used. In accordance with the law, he makes an examination of the records. An official from one national authority shall keep an eye on the records kept by another State authority. It says – it obtains data, so it obtains data from the records of another state body for the purposes of the case in the first state body. So this isn't just a birth certificate copy, this is a much broader provision. If there's a much broader provision, then you can imagine what a situation would be like if an electronic form from one computer were to have an official record of the other body, so you doubt whether it's for the purposes of the procedure or whether it's some kind of abuse. Now to skip what the minister mentioned, and that's the Law on the Protection of Personality Data, and then, now I quote those friends of yours who installed you, corruption, etc., if we know that such a specific composition works in state bodies, then it's no wonder that, for example, a police officer who provides for Snezana Malović, some Zvonko, in Rakovica, makes apartments for the market, without a building permit. "Oh, wow," I say that all the time, but there's no solution. Or if someone makes an insight into some record, then what's planned to be done in Vrčino, the citizens and the asphalt base rise to the center of Rakovica. No one can object there, because everyone has an insight into official records and can warn everyone. Or when one of the presidents gets ahold of that record for N.N. some alleged procedure reroutes the amount of tax on the transfer of absolute rights with a game of accounts to the private accounts of municipal management. You're just giving a sophisticated form of abuse of official authority to people who work. You're just giving it away. Here's another piece of information. I spoke a month ago. It was stopped immediately. People listen to some people's radio and answer. The national radio doesn't have a frequency, it doesn't have a license. The RRA says he filed a criminal report. Let's run a background check. There's no criminal records. What can that electronics do to help the citizens, explain to me, electronic records? What can help citizens? Probably if you're giving so much meaning to electronics, then you need to install chips to held officials and government officials, so as soon as it goes on something illegal, it's gonna take it out of that big power chip and it's gonna cut everything. I don't see any other reason. I don't see any other way of agreeing to be in accordance with the law. This is where the benign formulations have really been used - to allow citizens not to go from the counter to the counter, so that the authorities can communicate with each other, that whoever conducts the administrative procedure uses the records of another state authority, that they take these data from these records and that the citizen is deemed to have no need to prove, that, as a rule, the administrative procedure, the procedure conducted under official duty, regardless of the request of the party, etc. I'm distracting you that the possibility of abuse is maximum. You remember in 2000, a new Law was passed on the selection of MPs. A unique voter list has been scheduled. In 2001, 2002, 2003, it couldn't be established because five municipalities had no computers, that's an excuse. Now, let's just remind ourselves. There's a rumor of something epic, that it's moving with electronics, etc. That project is 20 years old. I have to distract you. There was one project to connect the entire state administration at the level of the republic with the surrounding areas, etc., that electronic communication was, there were some programmes, something was done, but the main reason why it did not occur before 2000 was, above all, the large funds needed. Even the contract was closed, I think, with Michael Pupin about it. It's epochal now because someone allegedly gave money, so Milan Markovic took pictures with the president or someone from the government when he released the system in connection with birth certificates. Now because of the birth certificate, which already works, we make a provision in the wrong law, which will allow anyone who has the opportunity to enter that system, and anyone will be able to enter that system as a civil servant. You're still saying that by means of a sublegal act, you're going to regulate these things as they enter and that this system can be reliable. Too bad I didn't bring something that was on the agenda yesterday at games of chance, to see how many companies were authorized to barter machines, to fix machines, where those machines are made, and what are the possibilities of abuse and notor fact, out of 17,000 and some registered machines, those for the game, there are another 10-15 thousand unregistered. What happened to Bojan Krist, who was at the head of the state lottery? We all forgot him? We haven't forgotten him, there's press-clipping, everything's being recorded, everything's being remembered. It's all remembered because you have to draw to put, you know, plus, plus, minus, minus, minus, minus, and then draw, so let's see what the balance is. Now we're preparing that balance to see. I'm just commending you, you've finally figured out some things. I'm glad you admit it. Of course, we can't vote on this bill because you made a mistake first of all, the name of the law and the law where some intervention should be made. Thank you, Mrs. Comic, see how much better you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-01-0.u47801	The word has been passed by MP Milica Radovic, an authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-01-0.u47802	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is one of the few draft laws I personally have nothing to object to. In fact, it is true what Mr Krasic said was to be regulated in the very Law on General Administrative Procedure. I was, when that law was on the agenda, that's exactly what I was talking about, but I was fiercely criticized, under the pretext that it wasn't the matter of that law. It doesn't matter. It's important that things like this are regulated anyway. It is true that this bill has only three members, but it is also true that it is correct and fundamentally good. It allows state authorities, by official duty, to obtain documents, primarily a copy of the parent books, or, for example, citizenship for citizens from other municipalities, or cities themselves. It is also true that certain savings, both in time and in money, are achieved through electronic communications, established here as a legal norm. But I have to say that the savings in the context and within the entire state administration that was meant to achieve much greater savings, or at least that was announced earlier, if I'm not mistaken, are completely insignificant. I would like to remind you that all the authorities of the state administration, under the Law on the establishment of the maximum number of employees in the Republic administration and under the Law on the establishment of the maximum number of employees in local self-government, were required to deliver new systems of employment by 31 December 2009 and that the funds for salaries of employees, both in the Republic administration and in local self-government, are determined and planned in accordance with these frameworks. Is something done about it? It probably is, but with a huge delay. Did this law produce any effects in practice? Of course not. Here, of course, I'm not talking about the laws we passed in December 2009, so these two that I just mentioned are good laws. On the contrary, it is about the extremely bad laws that we talked about all the worst when there was a debate about them on the agenda. At that time, we also said that there was no serious intention to make savings in public consumption and that the way the government had provided these bill proposals for savings was wrong and that public spending savings could have been achieved in some other ways. We also asked - how is it possible for the government to make savings or try to make savings if the measure that releases a huge number of citizens, or people employed, could have given that much effect, which could amount to 0.27% of the budget deficit at that time? So it's all completely insignificant things and insignificant measures. I'm talking about the laws that we've passed as the National Assembly, they have to be implemented and they have to be adopted, they have to be followed, even if they were as bad as the laws I've been talking about. It is precisely the mark of a well-ordered and stable democratic state that wants to be, but it seems that the rule does not apply only to our country. Our laws are only being passed in order to pass, or in order to eventually be praised in the European Commission's report that something is working, how it is active, and not to be implemented, and not for the effects of these laws to be felt in society itself, or in particular with citizens. It is clear to everyone that the State Administration is efficient, trom, slow, often corrupt, in any case very expensive, and that the rationalisation of the State Administration is necessary, but it must be carried out according to the premeditated plan. It can't be executed ad hoc, we need to know primarily the criteria on which to rationalize the State Administration, so we don't get into the situation in which the judiciary is today. Namely, the reform of the judiciary, or those who even tried to reform the judiciary, didn't do it right, they didn't know on the basis of what rules to do it, so now they don't know where to go, and how to even run and improve those things that are clearly bad. There are four times as many employees in the State Administration today as it was in 2000. Even the head of the World Bank's Belgrade office, Mr. Simon Grey, made one analysis of the size of the state apparatus, and came to the conclusion that the 11,000 departments in Serbia are surplus. So unlike us who haven't even been able to run any analysis of the current state of affairs in the state administration, this report and this analysis shows that even with much less personnel, it's possible to do more. Instead of the government respecting the laws itself, and to approach the rationalisation of the State Administration, it begins, of course, by itself because you will all agree that we have one of the most massive governments at all, not only in the region, but in Europe at all. It increased salary payments by 2009 budget rebalances, in the republican administration by 1,400,000 dinars. Well, is that normal? On the one hand, in the last 18 months. 200,000 people are out of work. It's official statistics. And on the other hand, some people get raises, and then how can we even talk about how we all deal equally with the burden of the economic crisis? Instead of accessing the transformation of the state administration, in order to, of course, get not only an efficient but capable state administration, in order to ultimately implement savings, the government decided to save by reducing local self-governments, and by drastically local transfer funds. In this way, most local self-government literally came, when it comes to their business, to the edge of the existence itself. The constitution guarantees funding for local self-government from the budget, and, of course, I wonder, this reduction is not the only and smartest decision the government has made and in order to overcome the result of the economic crisis. Let me explain what I'm talking about. I'm going to run a brief analysis of the amount of transfer funds over the last few years. For example, at the time of the government when the DSS was in power, the amount of transfers for local self-government, the transfer funds amounted to 63 billion dinars, and today, if I'm not mistaken, they're at 25 billion. In the 2009 budget, from 41 billion dinars, the funds have been reduced to 26, so 15 billion dinars have been reduced, and as far as I know, 1.7% of GDP is destined for transfer funds. If this is calculated correctly, this means that municipalities from the budget should get 48 billion dinars. That's the state of the country now, and each of us in local self-government sees that these funds are so reduced. Despite a request from 151 municipalities and the city to return transfer funds to local self-government, the government is ending this year with a reduction in the costs of local self-government. Of course, to be honest, in the 2009 rebalancing process, it's true that one billion people are projected more for local self-government, but if we look at it as part of those 15 billion missing ones, then that amount is completely ridiculous. To compensate for money for their needs, every other municipality in Serbia raised municipal taxis ranging between 45 per cent and 280 per cent, resulting in direct and considerable difficulties in business of business operators, which resulted in many entrepreneurs, i.e. the artisans themselves, putting literally a lock on their shops, because they were unable to endure, i.e. to endure such impositions and burdens. Lately, much has been said about the requirement to change the Constitution as one of the basic ways in which savings are made possible, i.e. the state apparatus itself could be smaller. Not that the state would save so much, the MPs wouldn't be more than 250, but they would be 100 or 150. It is clear to all of us that these requirements for amending the Constitution have nothing to do with what is said out loud. It is clear that the Constitution, even those who actively participated in its adoption, is intruding in the part where the Kosovo preamble is spoken of. If the President of the Republic and the Government are so concerned about how to make savings in the state administration, why don't they go on their own. Indeed, I don't think there's anyone in this room who would confirm that we have the largest government, not just in the region, but in Europe by population. If you add that, besides the Prime Minister, we have 56 civil servants, or 111 ministerial assistants, then you know what I'm talking about, and I'm not talking about how many advisors this government has. Much more would be saved if rationalisation were carried out in this particular area, rather than going into the very change of the Constitution and the reduction of the number of MPs. Some of them came to terms, so now they're going to reconstruct the government. The truth is, there were also those ministers who said two years ago that the government's rationalisation itself is necessary, but there are also those ministers who believe that the government's reconstruction should be carried out in the first four months of the following year. As an ordinary citizen, it is not clear to me that they are not ashamed to talk about the reconstruction of the government in the election year. Here it is now bid with some names of various ministers who are reportedly going to lose their portfolio, although the 2011 budget covers all the ministries that exist today. It's completely unserious. When we look at all this as part of Mr Tadic's statement that he does not have the strength to think that he is not sure he has the strength to rationalise the government itself, then it is clear what the outcome of all these announcements will be. I'm sorry Mr. Secretary isn't here, but I'm gonna say now and I'm gonna have to ask him what this is all about, and when he shows up, I'm gonna repeat it so he can hear what's going on in person. I have to ask him if it's possible that the local government in Chajetina, in which the DSS has been in power since 2000, is so bothered that it was necessary to pass judgment on the basis of the non-existent law on denationalisation and burden the municipality to pay state debts. I will explain, the municipality is obliged to pay 113,909,600 dinars for land heirs that were nationalised in December 1959. Of course, everything under the law that this house has not yet passed, based on the law of denationalization. It's such a legal precedent and I have no say in how to describe it, exclusively motivated by the most brutal political motive. I would, of course, like someone whose legal science is very close, I am talking about Minister Markovic, giving me some judgment about this unprecedented and unremembered legal precedent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-01-0.u47803	14 minutes and 30 seconds of time were used by a representative of the parliamentary group. Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a principled search of the application for a word, in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: the SPS-JS, Forward Serbia, the SRS, the NS, the DSS and the ZES parliamentary group. We are moving on to a discussion in order of the MPs, and according to the application for a word in the general debate on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on State Administration. The first to be reported on the list of speakers is MP Djordje Milicevic, followed by MP Jorgvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-01-0.u47804	Dear Presidency, honourable representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on amending and supplementing the Law on State Administration. Essentially here are the changes relating to two members and, among other things, it is quite clear and completely accurate that Mr Markovic said in the opening statement, two members who have essentially two goals. It's about changes that are of minor importance and importance, and I'd say they have an exceptional justification. The SPS Parliament Club, as pointed out among other things by the authorised representative of the parliamentary club in its presentation, of course, supports the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on State Administration. First of all, we want to support the proposal's intention to confirm a serviced attitude of state administration towards citizens, and that, among other things, in the light of this legislative proposal, through the development of information technologies in the field of state administration, the attitude of state administration towards citizens is improved in the context of more efficient work that will provide both money and time savings, but which will be guaranteed accuracy. Of course, as is said among other things, one of the reasons for the adoption of the legislative proposal is nature techniques, and it is also about harmonising the provisions of this law with the provisions of the existing Law on Higher Education and the Law on State Administration, and that is, when it comes to the work relating to academic titles. What I want to say is that the SPS-JS Parliament Club is always ready to discuss the proposal and is always ready to support a proposal that will enable more efficient work of the state administration, a proposal that will allow for more and more money and time savings, and, of course, expenditure, as it is said, for ongoing work. Which will be in the interest of the citizens of Serbia, which, when it comes to the attitude of state administration and citizens, will always be a priority to the satisfaction and interest of citizens. What is fundamentally important when it comes to the proposed amendments and additions of the Law on State Administration, it has already been said, that this proposal imposes obligations on state authorities to provide citizens with the necessary documents such as citizenship or, for example, parent books from other cities and municipalities. For the first time, public authorities are forced to commit this kind of obligation, i.e. for the first time electronic communication is established in Serbia as a legal norm, which we consider to be of paramount importance. The adoption of this legislative proposal imposes an explicit obligation on the public authorities to take, in accordance with the rules on electronic business, all documents in possession of the state by electronic means. I have already said what the goal is, that citizens, as Mr Markovic said, do not wander from the counter to the counter and from the city to the city, but work in one place and it will certainly save both time and money when it comes to the citizens of Serbia. In particular, we are talking about the change of two members who have two fundamental objectives, and when it comes to the SPS-JS parliamentary club, we believe that these objectives are fully justified. We agree that the process of establishing a central register is extremely important and that the base we are talking about today is of paramount importance for the realization of this whole process. It is a new principle on the work of the state administration that makes it very clear that all the documents the state has do not need citizens to have. It would be good if we had a quality and special general law that would regulate this area, but what is essential is that we are successfully moving towards the realisation of that goal that has been set, which is the establishment of a central register. Finally, I would like to point out that the SPS-JS parliamentary club in the voting day will support the proposed amendments and additions to the State Administration Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-01-0.u47805	Four minutes and 55 seconds used by the MPs' group. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, I would like to inform you of confirming the mandate of the People's MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. After the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly for a vacancy, in order to enable him to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a RIK report on the election of a MP to fill the vacancy in the National Assembly. Also, you were presented with a report by the Administrative Board, which found that conditions had been met for confirming the mandate of the MP, with a proposal for the National Assembly to comply with Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Bojan Đuric, elected from the LDP election list – Cedomir Jovanovic. On the basis of the RIK report and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). Law on the election of Members of the People, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Bojan Đuric. Congratulations on behalf of all of us fellow MPs on the election. We're going back to work. The word has a folk MP, Jorgenka Tabakovic, followed by a folk MP, Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-01-0.u47806	On behalf of the parliamentary group, I spoke in principle of amendments to the Law on State Administration. Now I'm going to talk about something more concrete about the reasons for the amendments that we're improving this text of the law. I really have no intention of opening up a story about those who don't need to talk about laws but other things, but I would ask the President or the President for the second time, to the Presidency, while someone else is talking about respecting the laws and legal obligations that this country has taken over in any government or government, that all those who claim to be power must be those laws, until they change, to respect. I'm talking about the Law on Co-operation with The Hague tribunal, with the International Criminal Court, on co-operation with all other higher posts to which we are bound by the law, the Constitution and all other regulations. I'm sure this authority is doing everything in its power and the possibilities to fulfil its legal obligations and I think that every responsible authority will do so. Our people say, "Do not water the weeds; they will dry. It's all my comment on some stories that aren't about the subject. Speaking of the subject, the amendment to Article 1 that we have submitted, where the existing text of the co-operation of the authority of the administration in the context of electronic communication is improved by precision, that an authority can only have insight into the really necessary data, that the request for checking these data must be recorded somewhere, not somewhere, but quite precisely to know who and why it takes, so as not to abuse them. Yes, except for what is available in public registers and public books, it has to be subdued under this procedure, it says that indeed under the company of something that is necessary there is no abuse, which we are witnessing globally. I will not mention affairs with the loss of public data to hundreds of thousands of users who happened in the UK, with abuse of payment cards. I'm not talking about machinations, I'm talking about the abuse of data that the state has in a legitimate way. At the moment we make them available, personality data, we need to warn all possible abuses of that data. So, since this amendment is prescribed to keep records of the data obtained, but also the reasons for that acquisition, it must be kept in certain registers. So it can't be - someone's notebook where he's private-handled, but simply a serious state has to have serious records of it. In this way, we restrict data insight, not only in situations where it is necessary under the law, or when the party asks for it, we literally prevent access to ad hoc to anyone for private purposes or for any kind of reason where certain data may be misused and may serve for some illegal purposes, because control of data acquisitions, reasons for which data are supplied, we need to show citizens that we are a serious state that will not allow data concerning anyone's privacy to be manipulated. I think that in this way citizens are protected from any excessively uncontrollably obtaining information about them, either from unwarranted access to data, or from notifying some personal information, and we think that this is simply in the spirit of Article 42. A constitution that protects citizens in this way in terms of guaranteed human rights. Why is this necessary to be done by supplementing Article 2 that you have allowed here to change? Because the Constitution prescribes and guarantees data protection, but no law is specified how this protection is done, and in this way you leave the minister the right to use the sublaw to resolve how it will be controlled, access, etc. It cannot be regulated by the government's act without the regulation of the law, because literally the proposal does not prescribe it. This is simply one necessary step that I assume is dropped by your oversight. From the aspect of the Constitution, which restricts the adoption of the rules of the executive authority, in the domain of the enforcement of certain laws, which we are adopting here in Parliament, the question is raised – did you bear in mind the consent of this proposal with the Constitution, when you opened up the possibility for the Government to regulate what was not regulated by the sublaw? So, as I was talking in the state administration about the necessary existence of the hierarchical scale, about who has the authority to pass the laws, to take care of their quality, who executes them, because the citizen knows only what the law is in practice, I am also asking you here – how could you do such an oversight because you opened up the possibility that the adoption of the sublaw guaranteeed the right to the protection of personal data? I would really like you to understand the seriousness of this remark, because this is the kind of remark we had when the Public Information Act was passed. The Serbian Constitutional Court has already considered the subject matter of the constitutionality assessment of the Public Information Act and is already under number 231/09. One of our party members has submitted the initiative as a natural person and it has been considered precisely because there is a practical question how a sublegal act closer can settle a question if it is not regulated at all by law. So, please, so that another law is not subject to review in the Constitutional Court, that this part of the remarks we have made is taken into account. Another very concrete observation regarding the Bologna process that already lives, regardless of which we have certain objections, which has not contributed to the quality of teaching, or the quality of knowledge of students coming out. I still hold on to the fact that I am proud of my Pristina University, where I finished my economy, because they say – it doesn't matter which books you learn from, but what you learn. The education system itself can to some extent encourage shortcuts or promote sloth, but in any case it depends mostly on the man who wants to reach certain knowledge, and I think it is most important and to what purposes the knowledge he achieves tomorrow in practice and apply. When we proposed to you to amend the text of Article 1, we did so primarily because of the amended Higher Education Act, which in fact changed academic titles, names, species, levels and conditions for obtaining certain titles that take place in studies of four years, in accordance with the applicable law. Why do we insist on this? Don't let anyone think this is a purely technical adjustment. According to current regulations, there are many acts that are adopted in the administrative procedure and do not have the name of a solution, but they, although they have completely different names, decide on the rights and obligations of citizens, so it is necessary to specify that this provision applies to each decision in the administrative procedure. So, not only when the paper writes a solution, but when the paper brings certain obligations or gives rights to the citizens, it stems from the administrative procedure. These physical acts and other faces have the exact same power regardless of whether they're called one or the other. Not to leave room for different interpretations of the same things, and just because it's brought by other organs, it's necessary to specify the law at this point. For the adoption of these and such acts, since you are only talking about solutions so far, I will call them acts, officials of the state can be authorized only with a certain level of education, or a degree of education, as it is formally said. This will avoid the need for such a rule in the appointment of civil servants to come by interpreting laws, which can be different in different bodies of the state administration, especially in this kind of feudal division and a large coalition government where we really have different approaches, where successes always take place, and guilt and damages are always transferred to the other side, or to another member of the coalition. The government is a single authority and as such must have prescribed rules that apply to all authorities of the administration, regardless of who is sitting or deciding in them. We believe that only state officials with higher education, at least master academic studies and calling masters, can be authorised to conduct administrative procedures. Why is that necessary? The decision on the rights and obligations of natural and legal persons and the exercise of their rights is, above all, the ultimate objective of the rule of law, the state administration and that is the most complex issue for the relationship between state and citizen. It is therefore necessary for those who decide on the rights of citizens to have that highest degree, at least higher education at the moment when they decide. So it's not a technical matter, it's a fundamental need for someone to have that title and it's understood that behind that title is both knowledge and adequate education. I want to say another very important thing. Decision-making mistakes have very serious consequences for the party and the state itself, mistakes that arise from incompetence, ignorance and lack of education. In the end, it costs the state, and you know that in the budget for each year we have an item by the ministries -- execution for litigation. I don't want to remind you of how many people lost their jobs at the National Bank of Serbia, those who, in time, moved from the Social Accounting Service to part of the National Bank and who were fired under the law. What happened later? Huge damages were to be paid by the National Bank to these people and if there were such expertise and respect for the law, such an obligation would certainly not have occurred. What's going on today? In the Law on the National Bank adopted in the summer, in the Law of the Bank of Banks' bankruptcy agency, we decided at that night session of 10 to 12, which was broadcast sometime after two to three to four in the morning, we were entitled to protect the state officials who damaged the party, the bank that took away the license or the insurance company, if they did not do so exactly in their intention to cause damage and they did not respond, allegedly for the job that they did to someone by doing harm, neither while working at the National Bank of Serbia, nor while working at the Agency for Rehabilitation, bankruptcy and liquidation of banks, or insurance of deposits, nor are they obliged to meet even when they left those institutions, because it is my God's achievement and protection for independence in their work. You can't always just protect a representative of the state administration and a representative of the state, who decides on the rights of a bank, an insurance society or a citizen, above all, who, as an individual, puts always in the first place, saying that his human rights are the most important, through the functioning of this state, you have proved to us that his economic rights, as a right to work, are not as important as human rights, but by law they must be precisely defined, in the sense that whoever decides on someone's life has the least preparation for a higher education or a certain degree of education that prescribes laws that treat that area. I think our practice is complicated and something that is due to 2003 and 2005, when much of the work from the state is left to public agencies and other public authorities, as it is treated by the laws. The work of these agencies and those who are holders of public authority is neither clear enough nor fully regulated by law and very often intertwine the competences of those we treat with the authorities of the state administration, sometimes, when it suits us, we say that the Law on the work of public agencies has been defined, and that is the additional reason why we are looking for this precision, because the Constitution says that all public authorities have the same obligations as the authorities of the state administration. Please keep that in mind. In a country where there are over a hundred agencies where the powers of the ministries, which decide on the rights and obligations of citizens, solutions and acts brought into administrative disputes, have to be regulated as we propose, because all of these agencies, although they do not want many of them to pay, and the state allows them, the revenues they make based on the availability of state resources in the budget, but rather keep to themselves, although they do not want to give information that is public. You are witnessing correspondence between Mr Sabic and the Civil Aviation Directorate, which I have been talking about for two years in this assembly, as someone who does not want to make available to the public what should be known, and these are the salaries they receive. They are also someone who violates, as a public authority holder, in an appeal procedure of the rights of the person he decides on. Those who filed complaints know that. One such question I delivered to Mr Milutin Mrkonjic, as the minister responsible for the work of that directorate, which is one quasiage, we do not know what its property is, is neither the agency nor the body of the administration, but is the directorate, whose establishment at the Constitutional Court is because of the illegal establishment, which I also spoke of. To conclude, with the fact that there is no effective supervision of work, of the money they have, of the decisions they make, which govern our lives, it is necessary to make clear at this time that employees of public agencies and of all other public authorities must have the same education and professional examinations, as well as civil servants. To this we are bound not only by international conventions that equalise civil servants as public authorities, but it is necessary because of the respect of all the principles of the work of the state administration for which we have concluded, each citizen who cares about a serious, civilized state, who will have a reputation not only within the country, but also in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-01-0.u47807	19 minutes and 10 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word is a folk letter from the Prophet of Rade, followed by a folk letter from Gordana Pop Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-01-0.u47808	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what Minister Markovic was saying today about information technologies, and about the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on State Administration, we have heard in this House at least three times. Maybe that's why the minister hasn't been in the O.R. in two hours, because there's nothing new to tell us, and he should be there. The minister spoke about the performances from the book of origin, about their duration, about the establishment of such an information system in municipalities, that at each place they would be able to take a copy of the birth certificate, and that is a good one, but the question is – why does the minister tell us now that two years ago he told us that it was already done? How many times have we looked at the so-called. To democratic municipalities, the presidents of municipalities cut the tapes, show the counter halls, some of the most modern computers, etc. If that's over, why are we back on the agenda? If it isn't over, and we know it isn't, then we would ask the minister if he were here – how does the proposal for this law tell us that no additional resources are needed to implement this law in the Republic of Serbia's budget? How this modern information system will be made if no funds are provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget. In this regard, of course, the question arises as to what is currently in our way or what is most important in the state of Serbia where more and more citizens have nothing to eat, in which every day they receive tens of thousands of cancellations, in which pensioners are reduced to a social case, etc. And then can we just throw ourselves around like this? The next question we would ask the minister when it comes to units of local self-government that he says will be able to communicate with the system when this law is implemented today, in which way local self-government will refinance that information modern technology if it is known that the transfer funds to local self-government units are dramatically reduced, suspended. The minister had, and not only the minister but also the president of the state, a petition from the president of the local self-government, in the largest number, even those who were representatives of the Democratic Party, because they were brought into a situation that they couldn't do even the most basic jobs on the ground, that is, in the context of what you like to say that you care about the development of all municipalities in Serbia's territory in the same way, or even regional development, as you like to say. It turns out that there is nothing from this job and that you have brought local self-governments to a begging stick, and you have not, on the contrary, improved their functioning in any way, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, or in accordance with what you are, of course, just saying and not working, and that is not the only area in which you act. Also, when it comes to information technologies and this law if the minister were in the O.R., we would ask him what would happen, Minister Markovic, with a unique voter list? At the time, it was said that local self-government would be connected to each other first, then to the Ministry of Interior, then to the Ministry of State Administration, etc. and this should be produced by a truly unique voter list, which the Serbian Radical Party has been talking about for 20 years and always in the same way, and when we were part of the government and we were in opposition, in contrast, from parties to regimes that one way enter the topic, they treat when they are in power and in another way when they are in opposition. So it's not going to be any of this business, just another law to introduce yourself as you stand by the laws, and these are the third amendments to the State Administration Act, and now we're changing only two members. You can't sit down and seriously make a bill that lasts at least longer than the government that proposes it to the National Assembly. What did the minister say? When this law enters into force and, as it says, no additional funds will be needed, then it is assumed that it is only waiting for this law to enter into force and that a button is clicked and that the information system is established. From that moment on, says the minister, man will no longer know what the birth certificate is. Really amazing, but maybe the minister was thinking about this collapse of the education system that you do every day, so you're really going to bring people to that level that they won't even know how to read, let alone what the birth certificate is. In line with your education system and the Bologna Declaration, which we talked about when it was adopted and, as counterpart Krasic said, were the only political party that was most seriously opposed to the introduction of a Bologna study system, which is not required anywhere, because it is based on the declaration, of course, not binding declarations, and in which many of the countries you see did not introduce yourself to their educational system and the consequence of the Bologna system walks you every two months before the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, it is not the only negative consequence of your so-called reforms, because we have these consequences every day at every step and in every other area of social life in Serbia. The result of your reforms in various areas is what Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic said earlier, that the criminal government is degraded the state, as she said. Right, she's right when she said that, it should only be made clear that the criminal power is at work in Serbia and that various analysts are talking about it, etc. We don't have a custom, we don't like to refer to anyone because we have our own opinions and opinions, but simply the media are full of stories about various criminal affairs, and it's from the highest state summit. Then you really ask what all of your reforms mean, and what do the regulations mean when you don't apply them where they're supposed to apply? Then the president of the Democratic Party tells Serbian citizens about the reconstruction of the government, the reduction of the number of MPs, the change of the electoral system, etc., the man has no idea first, it seems that there is a Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and that everything he talks about in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in the way it was regulated by the Constitution. It is clear to us in the SRS that he only advertises himself, and so from time to time he needs to say what he will do, in what way he will reform what area. The fact that he's not in his jurisdiction, that he doesn't comply with the constitution, that he doesn't care about Boris Tadic, he has his own story and he does it the way he does it. When it comes to the amendment of this law and the member you have provided for, the new Article 75a, if the minister were here, we would ask him how, when this member takes effect, he will communicate with the Commissioner for Public Information, since every day a man complains in public that there is no communication with state authorities, how do ministers hide data, how do public enterprises not provide data on the profits of the director and president of the boards of directors of public enterprises, etc.? So, you are not doing what you say and all Serbian citizens know it and face every day all the problems of the so-called democratic authority and regime that has been in play for ten years in this or that form in Serbia. What you are proposing is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because they cannot be transferred to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We'll talk more about it when there's a debate in particular, but I'd say to the end that there's been a lot of talk here about both thefts of mandates at both local and republican level. I'd like to back up one of the latest cases. We talked in this place about the criminal report we filed against the president of the municipality of Zemun and one committeeman who offered another board of bribes in various forms, in total of 100,000 euros, and there is absolutely proof of that. The evidence is an audio recording and a state prosecutor, or one of the deputies says there are no elements to the crime. Then we wonder why the mandates are being stolen, why the law isn't being applied. You're behind all this. You act as you do at any moment, so you impose a Constitutional Court decision that no court in Serbia can apply. Take a look. If the minister were there, I would ask him to consult with counterpart Malovic, see if they can even apply the law. We claim they can't. We have it every day at work in practice. We have just established here that a new MP from the LDP list has entered parliament, which is absolutely in accordance with the law, in accordance with the Constitution, completely legitimate, because counterpart Maras, who before him was an MP, has differed with his party for some of his reasons. That's not what we're getting into, but he's given the mandate back to the party who earned that mandate. We have been talking to you for two years about this, just as Velimir Ilic spoke today, that the mandates belong to the parties both when it comes to the local and when it comes to the republican level. So, fully in line with what Velimir Ilic said, we are asking him now – how can he go into coalition with the party that stole the 21st mandate of the SRS, I am talking about the party of Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandr Vukic? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-01-0.u47809	12 minutes and 25 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop Lazic, followed by a folk MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-01-0.u47810	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have already concluded as a parliamentary group, and representatives of other parliamentary groups have noticed that this matter should not be subject to this law. If we want to find an answer to why, I get the impression that there is an existing situation in local self-government in Serbia that the ministry or certain local self-government would apply to obtaining some means to further technologically equipping local self-government itself in order to switch to automatic data processing. We almost had a chance to read in the newspaper how Minister Markovic boasted or informed the public that he had donated so many computers to this municipality, that municipality and so on. This law, although effective on the eighth day since the day of publication, will not be fully applicable and will not be able to apply to everything that is needed and what is important to the citizens, because we have heard that this is only about parent books, I suppose also about books that keep a record of citizenship. What about all the other needs of citizens when they go to any state authority and ask for a document to be issued or they want to solve their own question, get a building permit? Once again, they must go from the counter to the counter, from one body to another within the same local self-government to obtain all the papers and get what they came to the authority of the administration. That's what would be interesting for the citizens, that when I want to get a building permit to go and say, "I want to do that and I want to do that, I'm giving you one document and I'm saying the rest you can get, because the state authorities keep records on all the other papers, it's mine to do the project, it would be a real service to the citizens. Believe me, even now, even at this point, even though we have a law that prescribes, they have a lasting value, I've almost taken out my birth certificate copy and it's not complete. There is, for example, no record of my marital status, or the municipality that was meant to inform this other municipality where I was born. The same is true of citizens' books. They don't have any information about whether anyone's married or married, whether he's a widow or a widow, and that's me. There's no communication between state authorities. It is good if this law gives some assumptions about it, but how it will be applied and whether there are technological conditions for its application is now question number two. The fact is, even President Tadic, I saw, saying that his goal is to streamline the state administration, and then make it as efficient as possible. Although he says – God forbid it can be so, he said at a gathering where he was present and his holiness the patriarch of the Serbian, and I guess he prayed to God for help, but he said – I will work on it, interfere with the work of the government, as often he can do, but let God help him. What the citizens want, they want a good state administration that must first of all give public justice every penny they spend because that money they spend comes from the pockets of citizens as taxpayers. The administration rests on educated professionals, who don't use their positions and titles for bribery and corruption, and we know how much corruption is in our country, which means we don't have a good administration. And we're not good at education. Why? Because the pay probably isn't adequate, because we have a salary range in the state administration, I mean, 1:8 that we shouldn't possibly allow. We have in the assembly that some counselors have salaries 50% higher than the MPs, for example. We have officers working for 22,000 dinars and we expect some results from them and expect us to have an effective administration. That's impossible. The state is the biggest employer in this country since you completely destroyed the economy. There were 22,000 people employed in the state administration. You promised by the end of 2010, you'd cut the state administration by eight thousand people. That's what it costs. It is said to receive 550,000 dinars from the republican budget and an additional 15,000 dinars each year from the local self-government budget. The question is, since we know how politicized our government is, will it have any effect and will there be any savings at all? As the government changes, so comes the push of its personnel into state authorities and while we have, watch out, 22 thousand people, employees of the state administration, we, that is, you employ at least 10-15% of those who work under the contract of action, and who are these people rather than activists of certain parties. You can reduce the number of ministers from 25 to 15, but you can't do all the jobs you do without those people you have now, who aren't adequately or professionally trained to work, and do them twice because you created more surrogate agencies, directorates, and I don't know how many services that intertwine, push and don't know who's doing what and who's responsible. There must be order. When we told you -- don't start this agency, don't start it, it's a ministry job, so let's make it 700 people in the ministry, just that there are 700 people, and there aren't another 500 in some other agencies that do the same job, just to hire some people. It's a big problem for our state administration. I wanted to refer to Article 2 you proposed in the amendments to this law on state administration, which concerns the professional skills of state administration workers and to say that I was very disappointed, and it did not surprise me, that President Tadic said that we could not prevent brain drains and that migrations were a presumption of progress. Look, we're going to have all the smarts that we've been studying, where we've invested some money, first of all, we're as parents, because the state's been investing very little since the adoption of Bologna, so let's say we see how this is going, and while everyone in Europe is giving up on that Bologna, we're still pushing that Bologna. Our kids who passed all the exams can't enroll in next year's study on the cost of the state, but we have to finance them. Can we? Mostly we can't, so only those who really have money can educate their children here and here, and in Vienna, and in Paris and I don't know London, those who don't have either in Kragujevac, or in Belgrade, or in Pristina, or anywhere. A statement worth paying attention to, and it comes from the president of the state, saying what kind of state we are. He says, "We have a preeminent tendency to stay in the same place, to build a house of as tighter material in which the whole family will live, not only Dad, but if it's possible for Grandpa, and the great-grandfather, and the grandson and his heirs, because the wolf and the dunes can come and blow our house away." We live like fairy tales, we just spent a huge amount of money on investments, on completely pointless objects, instead of on the economy. Oh, God's people. First of all, we spent a lot of money, making houses, that is, our parents, our grandfathers making houses, and leaving us to live in them, and we want to keep them in hard trouble so that our children have a place to live, because we're like claustrophobic, there will be a wolf, a dune, so what are we going to do without a house. What about those homeless people who came from Krajina, who came from Bosnia? Who took care of them in this country? I can tell you, only the SRS. In Zemun, since 1996, when we realized this problem and we thought it was the cheapest thing for the state to help them by giving them a piece of agricultural land that went into construction land, where they built fantastic houses, where they started their own business, or they opened up some business, some shops, they kept living normally, they had a garden, they couldn't be hungry, they could have a chicken to lay an egg, at least they were full. It's a local self-government that thinks about its citizens. It's not local self-government just administration. It's a living organism. You're facing a lot of problems, like this in the King now. No one could have predicted an earthquake, although something had to hit us the day after Boris Tadic's apology in Vukovar. Something had to happen to us. May God's justice exist, may the balance of power exist. We need to keep a tight eye on what we're doing, so things like this don't happen to us. I found an interesting one reaction to this stupid statement by Tadic. It's a statement from a young man who said that the thing is that the president tends to hold all the levers of power in his hands. Now that there's been a gathering like this where there's a serious debate to be held, our president tells stories about wolves and three pigs and makes unsettled statements that offend our intelligence. (President: National Parliament, I understand your fascination with the president of Serbia, I understand the creativity of the presentation, but you are now so far away from the topic that I must remind you that we are discussing the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on State Administration, so please return to respect the Rules of Procedure. This is exactly what I'm talking about, the rationalization Mr. Tadic was talking about. It's his priority, but he can't do it. He says, "God, I'll try to do something to make it work, but it's almost impossible at this point." We're messing around with this story, about three pigs, and here we're spending taxpayers' money on triple state bodies who, I'm sorry, but they're spending the substance of this people, after we've destroyed the economy, after the state, I mean, the biggest employer, Miskovic, even though his cashiers work for 12,000 dinars. Since we expect the collection of all municipal costs and gasoline, we eat the most expensive food and pay for the most expensive gasoline in the environment, we pay for the most expensive gas, because we are being announced the repurchases and electricity and gas and everything else. Please don't make fun of such a bill that means absolutely nothing to us. They'll only put us in an unequal position. Some will be able to do this, and some won't be able to do it. And without this paper, and without what it says here, this could have been done. Every local self-government, I suppose, tends to do and facilitate jobs not only for itself but also for its parties, if it really wants to be a citizen service. Although when the SRS spoke of local self-government as a citizen service, and it put it into its program, you didn't even know what it was. Please don't get away with this situation being bad in that local self-government, and it's better in there. You've been in local self-government for 90 years. Please. So, what did you do? Nothing. The president says the constitution needs to be changed, and the political system, and I don't know how many laws to carry out and rationalize, as if it were more efficient for the state administration and everything else. Please change the Constitution. I see you're getting ready for that. There's been a regrouping of political forces, you're breaking political parties, you're taking mandates. There's only no consistency, and there's no principle. The greatest quality of one politician is consistency and principle, the rest is politics. Mr Velja Ilic can't now, although he's absolutely right, talk about local self-government and stealing a mandate at the bar, and here about stealing a mandate in the Assembly to keep quiet and not say anything. We welcomed Mr. Djuric, who came from LDP earlier, because Mr. Maras, and if he went to another party, first returned his moral mandate to his political party and then moved on to another political party. Today I think we've been wasting our time all day, although the minister has given us a creamworth for a broad story about the state administration that we're all dissatisfied with. The most unsatisfactory are those who work in the state administration, because first of all there is no number, here I have recorded the number of state secretaries in the state administration – only 67 State Secretary and 103 Assistant Ministers, please, in this Government. What are State Secretarys but Deputy Ministers? A minister can have one, he can have another, who will represent him if he's not there, the one he's authorized. That's what we really don't need. You boast that some young people have been introduced into the state administration, mostly volunteering or working for small money, it's just exploiting those finished intellectuals we unfortunately have very little. We're a country with 5%-6% of people with higher education. It used to be a lot more. Now we can say to ourselves that we are even a country with a large number of illiterates. Why is that? Because we don't, first of all, have the money to educate our children.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-01-0.u47811	17 minutes and 30 seconds of MP time were used. The People's Messenger Petar Jojic has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-01-0.u47812	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Chairman, the draft law supplementing the State Administration Act represents, as provided for by Article 75a, an empty norm. When you see what is meant to be achieved by such a legal norm, absolutely nothing will be achieved. This area provided for in this law has been regulated by the General Administrative Procedure Act, by the fact that the General Administrative Procedure Act should be supplemented and amended so much as in that law, these provisions, which are proposed in Article 75, should be laid down, but in that law, the pre-exclusive time limit should be prescribed. This means - the competent state authority is obliged to adopt a solution at the request of the party because, in a specific case, the legal relationship between natural, legal persons and state authorities is. What's problematic and worrying is that everyone will be able to use this data without control. What does that mean? Now some of the civil servants will enter the electronic system and search for information about everyone in this country, and you see what's going on in America, that America has broken, bloody America, has broken down because it's done everything and everything and everyone could have threatened the safety of other states in America. What should have been prescribed here is who is asking for the information, how that request is recorded, who provided the information and whether this information has been used for the purpose of the submission. The user who requests information from the competent state authorities must be responsible for the confidentiality of such data, especially when it comes to confidentiality and privacy data. In the 1970s, internal affairs have introduced a system of electronic data processing, but it serves mainly in records, primarily criminal and criminal, for the conduct of certain procedures. However, with what we are about to tell the citizens, you can get, if you are a Beogradian, a copy of the book of origin, or about citizenship in Novi Varosha or Chajetina, or Sjenica or Surdulica, it is not at all any progress in reforming our legislation. Because when you look at one thing, what is rational for Serbian citizens? What is effective for Serbian citizens? What is primarily economical for Serbian citizens? So these principles should be respected. On the other hand, we have an overnumbered administration, there's been an increase in red tape in every place, and the citizens are crying and screaming because they can't get permission at the bar or a solution at their request for months or even years. Something else that is very significant and problematic, which in law should be normized and precise, and someone would answer for it. A citizen submits a request for legalisation, of five competent public utility companies or ministries required consent. You can't even get that consent in two or three years. Please, just take the information that the Law on Planning and Construction was brought in 2003, you'll see what I'm saying, hundreds of thousands of cases are pending. Why is that? We demand consent, we have a number of administrations ineffective and unsustainable. At the bar, that's very problematic. There's a lot of red tape in the place that doesn't leave any results behind. Therefore, whoever is responsible at the local or state authority to resolve the subject or request of the citizens must take care of what time it is due to resolve it. When it comes to a number of administrations, here, these days in the public, in the media, and by individuals from the government, ministers, it advocates a reduction in the number of ministries. However, we have pointed out long ago that there is a need to reduce the number of ministries compared to the number of inhabitants, but do you have any idea how many secretary of state there are, and how many assistants there are, how many advisors? On the other hand, how many agencies do we have — 111? How much direction do we have? Not counting. How many offices are there? Politics has been published these days - the government is forming new agencies by its regulation. You now have offices in Serbia: The Office of the National Council for Co-operation with the International Criminal Tribunal -- there are 10 employees, the Office for European Integration - 80, imagine! Where are we going to Europe? We can't make it to Europe until they've completely occupied us. Office for Media Cooperation – 25, Office for Sustainable Development of Not Developed Areas – five, Office of National Councils for Decentralisation of the Republic of Serbia – 37, Office of the National Security and Protection of Secret Information – 24, then the Office of the Government for Economic Development in Kragujevac, Bor, and not to list any further. I think it's really too much, especially if we say - we want to reform the administration and reduce that administration above all. It doesn't seem to have anything to do with it. Mrs. Comic, I asked you a question, but there's no answer. It's about local self-government and taxpayer funds. I asked a parliamentary question and I asked for an answer – on whose orders is 30% of the funds from local self-government and public enterprises of all levels set out in the deposit of the Vojvodina Development Bank? Why wouldn't those funds be used locally, not for those funds to be at the Vojvodina Development Bank, and possibly for them to be used in a sense of purpose? So, if we want local self-government to work effectively, that citizens can do their jobs and be on time satisfied with their demands, I think it depends primarily on the minister and depends on the president of the municipalities. For example, how is it saved, but how can it not be saved? The Municipality of Velika Plana has a number of employees of 50 perpetrators, but the Municipality of Plan has been denied 40 million dinars, and Serbian radicals are in power. Why was that 40 million taken from the Big Plan municipality? Whether because Serbian radicals are in power there, and SRSnikada would not do so if any party were in power at the bar. This is how power is exercised selectively. Mrs. Komic, you have witnessed and been informed these days, and last night Mr. Micovic on TV said that 500 tonnes of imported meat from Brazil were imported. How is that possible? What does local self-government and inspections do to us, what do they do, and only in 2010 is 500 tonnes imported? (Chairman: People's Parliament, please return to the topic. As important as it is to make a comment about the affairs of the inspection, which are republican, you and I know it, so it's hard to be the subject of the agenda. I'll finish. This will be very interesting to hear, please. One Zlatiborac says these days, from the Municipality of Chatin, we have hundreds of them in Zlatibor today, who do meat production, dried meat products, and none of them have skin hanged at the door. So it was the local self-government that the local self-government inspectors didn't control.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-01-0.u47813	People's MP, I'm warning you now. I'm really asking you right now not to mock the rules of the Rules of Procedure and not to associate things that are impossible to connect because I have no doubt that you know exactly who is in charge of food safety and at what level in our country is that inspection. Please, on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-01-0.u47814	Mrs. Comic, here you can see if anyone has used confidential information about this in the Tchaitina municipality. Could it have mattered or not, as far as this law is concerned? That's why I wouldn't be in the middle of a controversy with the chairman right now. I'll finish my speech. I'm just saying, if we want a reform, it needs to be seen, it has to be visible, and we don't just have to promise to cut red tape and clerks, and to introduce an electronic system and electronic data processing, and that it will be successful for our citizens and that everyone will be happy, and everyone will sing from tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-01-0.u47815	Eleven minutes and 55 seconds of Parliament time. The People's Messenger Sreto Peric has the word, and after him is the Messenger Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-01-0.u47816	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have on the agenda a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on State Administration and it is a very important law, although at first sight, a large number of our citizens seem to be irrelevant. Given that there are public authorities, on the one hand, and on the other hand that the government's government's policies are very important, these are all definitions of the Law on State Administration, and therefore every citizen of Serbia from the moment of birth and how interested we are in the Law on State Administration. Is this a good law? Of course not. We try, the SRS as a political party that is not prone to rapid and sudden changes, we connect traditionally and modernly, we succeed from what is elastic and what is firm to make one whole and such laws we want to have. This is the government's attitude towards the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So it's almost two hours past that the government's representative is not present here, and that's the government's attitude towards Serbian citizens. If, respected citizens, you don't give a shit after what I'm about to say, it's not the SRS, it's not my fault, it's the government of the Republic of Serbia, and, above all, DS as the holder of the coalition, and above all, its president, and I assume you know who the president of the DS is. To illustrate this, I'm just going to move around within the framework of the State Administration Act. I must remind you, the state administration is part of an executive authority that exercises certain powers under the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia and consists of the Government, and the government has 26 or 27 ministries. The ministries continue to have state secretaries, an exact number is unknown, according to the laws on ministries and government, it is not determined, but a special regulation on internal organisation and systemization determines the exact number, there are assistants, so the secretaries of the ministries, then special advisers, and in each ministry up to three, and these are special advisers who engage on a proposal from the minister, they are not employees who have similar names. The ministries are further divided into sectors managed by assistants, and if more independence is required for a state body, special authorities are set up. These are not the bodies that are part of the ministry, which fall within the ranks of the state authorities, but can be administrations, inspectorates, directorates, where the authorities are run by the director and he has his assistants. And the mandate, or to read, takes about five years, and that was the desire of the DS to hire as many of its members as possible in the government and not to be linked to the election, or to the term of office. They all justify this by saying that they want to achieve depolitisation of the state administration, which is absolutely incorrect and many examples of practice show. Furthermore, there are special organizations where the nature of business requires more independence than it is otherwise, and these are secretariats, institutions and special organizations, which have directors, deputy directors, assistant directors, and this can be one or more and then we get to the administrative districts. Administrative districts do not have their own territorial independence, but have some jurisdiction, are transferred from a particular ministry, i.e. from the state administration, and are transferred to administrative districts, in order to make certain jobs easier. The management district has its own head, professional services, advice, and these are numerous bodies in organisational terms, in the bodies of the state administration, and the number of executives is close to 30,000. Now it needs to be politically correct, so it should be said that the state of Serbia has inherited a number when the community of Serbia and CG shut down and ceased to exist, but an incomparably smaller number has been compared to what we have today in the authorities of the state administration. The existence of an end of the community is not even close to the reason why you can justify such an increased number of employees in the state administration. The law that was passed, represented by this minister, on the reduction of the number of employees in the authorities of the state administration, I apologize, Mladjan Dinkic represented him here, is nowhere near the realization of what was being said here. Giljota's rules, it's just a beautiful colourful lie for Serbian citizens and it doesn't exist. We see that from day to day, more and more legislation is being passed, perhaps a number of government regulations and sublegal acts are too high, but that is not what the citizens of Serbia expected when choosing and showing confidence in this government. Article 75a, a new proposal that plans to be added to the already existing State Administration Act, regulates something that is in the context of the minister's reasoning, but in practice, acceptable, but certainly not for the matter of the State Administration Act, but the General Administrative Procedure Act, which speaks of how the authorities act. Article 2 can be said, because it amends Article 84(3) of the existing law, where it is said of a different way, i.e. the different calling of persons who have finished, it was once the seventh degree of professional training. How much SRS policy is founded, sustainable and above all principled, says both the fact and the fact that we were the only political party or the only parliamentary group when talking about the Law on Higher Education, where we cited a number of reasons and a number of arguments why Bologna is not good in Serbia, or for our country at all. Now, Article 71. The Constitution says – the right to education has all of them on equal terms. Are we in a situation in Serbia that the right to education has everyone on equal terms? Of course not. Those who have won a significant number of points foreseen under the Education Act are not in a situation, because the state does not have enough resources, to school on the cost of the state, but they or their parents have to compensate from such a difficult situation and incomes that are very small. The question arises which are the powers and opportunities of the mayor to help students, i.e. to enable them to school from the Republic of Serbia's budget, we welcome it, but how does one individual have the resources of the Republic of Serbia's budget, and of course, the city of Belgrade has its own budget, where does he get the opportunity and the right to isolate it from that budget to help students? This should be resolved systematically, it should be a problem for the state and the Ministry of Education, but it is not possible, because funds are allocated in Belgrade, and then after goodwill or some special skill or ability of the mayor, because he recently offered assistance to other municipalities and cities in a much more difficult situation. I want to believe that the president of the Municipality of Love, who was a member of the SPS, would help those students if he could, but certainly he can't, because he doesn't have enough resources to help them in that way. The rule of law, it's something that the SRS stands for, and if the rule of law were respected, there would be no theft of parliamentary or parliamentary mandates, and that's not the time for just one government, for one political party, it's something that you've now replicated and made as a problem, and it's going to come back to you later on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-01-0.u47817	Eight minutes and 50 seconds of MP time were used. The People's Messenger Mirko Munjic has the word, followed by the MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-01-0.u47818	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, you have been in the amendments and additions to this law on the state administration provided for the exercise of insight and the acquisition of data conducted electronically through the information system, which provides security and data protection. I'm going to say something about this segment, since I think there's going to be some problems here. There's a universal rule that ensures that by means of so-called. One protective umbrella provides adequate protection of this data. However, a question is raised in light of the latest developments, what will actually be the protection of this data. Is it possible to ensure, in accordance with Article 2 of Article 75a of the proposal of this law, adequate and rights to secure the protection of this data? I think these questions can be answered by a certain period, by the time this WikiLeaks appeared and after his appearance, which we had in practice a few days ago. By the time he showed up, I'd say that protection was 100%, at least that's what they were telling us, and after that, it looks like zero percent. There was a general confusion in the transfer of the protection of these information data, especially those kept as the most protected state secret. Everyone was preparing, Mr. Minister, for the protection of this data. I'm just going to remind you that a couple of years ago, the European Commission said in a report that it estimates that the probability that telecommunications networks will be severed is somewhere between 10% and 20%, see now how bad that assessment was. She also claimed that the damage would be around 190 billion euros. What do they estimate now, after these latest events? But how is that in Serbia? What protection of this data will we have, in accordance with the position of Article 2 of this Article 75, which I have mentioned? Especially, Mr. Minister, in light of the sales of Telekom, which is current and which this government wants to do. All I can remind you is that data protection is something that you and the Constitution are bound by. Telekom, to remind you, is a vitlan in Serbia's communications system. The change in the owner of Telekom leaves the entire infrastructure unprotected and opens up the possibility for many security issues, as regards espionage, etc. The security of all state services, Serbia's MUP, Serbia's armies, etc. is at stake. Experts in this area say that when someone owns the entire telecommunications infrastructure, then he can actually... (President: People's MPs, please on the subject. What you want to make as a comment cannot be linked to the subject of the agenda, and this is the draft law amending the State Administration Act. Please talk about the subject and the agenda. I reminded myself, I'm not sure you heard that, that Article 2 75a's attitude is about data protection. I will remind both you and the people's MPs and the public of Serbia, and of course the minister, that 98% of the communication, for example. National banks go through Telekom Srbija. (President: National MP, I now warn you that the next warning measure, as it concerns the protection of server data, concerns the attack on the DDO system and has nothing to do with what you are now trying to introduce in the agenda topic. So I'm asking you about the agenda. ) Mrs. Komic, it is obvious that what I want to talk about has not been found common ground regarding understanding and what you consider to be data protection. However, I say that Article 75a speaks about the protection or protection of the data to which they are bound by this bill, which is today the topic of the agenda. The protection of this classified information can be the subject of certain abuses and I'm just talking about it, these abuses. The other thing that can be done here is to change information. I'm sure you know very well how this information can be used and how it can be misused, how someone can actually do many abuses in this originality of data. The consequences really throughout that system can be catastrophic. In the end, we in the SRS, I'm sure we're deeply aware of the fact that in some things, because of your 126 or 128-129, we can't influence. However, it is ours to point to that. It is our job at any moment to point out to you the necessity of passing laws that will be respected after their adoption. Respect for all the provisions, all the rules that are laid down in this Parliament are simply an obligation for everyone, and that is some universal rule. It's something we have to accept here, and I think what the SRS has been talking about all day and today, and what it's been saying all this time since it's been put together, this government's been going that way. We are, on the other hand, deeply aware that we cannot influence certain things, given your 126, but it will be remembered and written that we have tried everything, that we have tried everything in our power, as well as the sale of this Telekom, which is very important to the citizens of Serbia. However, we want to tell the citizens of Serbia where you are taking this country and how deeply harmful this policy is for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-01-0.u47819	Six minutes and 30 seconds have been used by the MP's group. The People's Messenger Milan Skrbić has the word, followed by MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-01-0.u47820	I'm gonna ask you to tell me how much time left for the MP's group?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-01-0.u47821	Twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-01-0.u47822	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens, today we have before us an amendment to the Law on State Administration, which comes down to two members. In Article 75a, point 2 is said: to carry out insights and obtain data from records, i.e. registers conducted in electronic form in the procedure of Article 1 of this Article shall be carried out by means of an information system providing data security and protection, which is just the case for which counterpart Munjic spoke. The proposed amendment and addition of the Law seems to me to be something else in the middle, which is to determine the responsibility of the government authority to obtain data from records, i.e. registers run by state authorities and units of territorial autonomy and units of local self-government and public authorities, which confirms and says the country's service to parties and citizens. Try another one in a series of courtships of the ruling coalition towards the citizens. It all looks nice when you put it on paper and the attitude reads like this. However, the electronic administration, when we mention it, raises the question whether people are trained, those who need to work on it. It doesn't say anything. It is predicted that persons with basic 7th-degree studies do so and the rest as stated in these amendments, but what about those who are already running administrative proceedings and making solutions in the administrative procedure. What about them? We're witnessing that most of those who are doing these jobs right now are actually doing them with a fourth and sixth degree. In Article 92 of the existing law, it is prescribed that employees with a higher school in the authorities of the government, the province, municipalities, cities and the city of Belgrade can conduct administrative procedures and make solutions in the administrative procedure for a maximum period of five years from the date of entry into force of this law, which seems to me to be adopted in September 24th. The question is again, what will happen to employees who do not meet that obligation. Local administrations also announced inspections which do not know how to answer the question of Article 92 and how to apply it. It seems to me that we're always perfecting something. In this topic are the parents. Predicted parents, who can do the job in the coming period, are people with college, with a law school, and the law is allowed to find mid-professional parents, who are mostly, to pass a professional exam within three years and can stay in that position. So how do we perfect administration on one side, and on the other hand we keep people who don't even have a sixth degree of professional training? The big problem with local administrations and state administrations is that money. According to local government, the state is obliged to single out 1.7% of gross social product. I can see that no one listens to me, but that's what the citizens listen to, that's what matters. Last year, the local administration was denied 20 billion by law. For this year in this period, 16.8 billion euros. It is a total of 36.8 billion euros, or about 400m euros, which has been denied. In order for all of this to live in electronic form, funds to be invested, and by means of these funds, which have been abolished by local self-government through the reduction of transfers, each municipality could also build a sports hall and a swimming pool and kindergarten. The municipalities have their plans and plan and expect these funds. The reduction of these transfer funds is a direct violation of the Law on Local Self-Government, and here we are talking about improving communication, etc. By withdrawing these funds beyond the law, I repeat, local administrations have blocked many of the start jobs, and the biggest debtor is the state, just because the law is not respected by those who need to implement it. The maximum number of employees, I will remind the citizens, and you here, and those who are watching, that we have had the tables that the government has brought in to determine the number of employees in local and state administrations and that none of this is respected. In the republic, 2,800 were to be reduced and in the local administration of 5,600. Nothing's been done, everything's been reduced, according to data we have in the SRS, about 700 at the state level, and nothing's been done at the bar. Some ministries continue to employ, local administrations as well as public enterprises. We're witnesses here. No one can kill that. It violates the law that you yourself have passed. I'm going to make an example of the opposite of a discussion today. In the municipality from which I come, in fact from the district where I come from, Odjac municipality, the tables you brought in were to be fired by 47 workers. Meanwhile, with the arrival of a new government, the DS headed, a new 30 workers were admitted. It's just that people have nowhere to sit, they literally share a chair in one office. That's what you do, and here you make up and court yourself through these decisions and laws. I will remind you, the tables are also made and it is easy to calculate that the proposed amendments and additions to the laws are determined by the authority of the state administration to carry out insight and obtain data and enforce the laws. Unfortunately, however, they are not being implemented. It stands there well that at a certain time the total number cannot be greater than 10% of the staff, according to Article 3. The law of the Republic administration, and it is not respected. For an indefinite period of time, the total number cannot be greater than four employees per 1,000, four prominences, and according to the latest census, it is not respected either. For a period of time, the total number of employees cannot be greater than 10% indefinitely, and any excess of 1% above this percentage of transfers and units of local self-government from the Republika Srpska budget is reduced by 1% of defined monthly transfers in the current year. This is Article 3. Law on local administration. We have everything well written, however, those who need to carry out what is written and what this congregation has brought simply does not respect it. The big problem with local self-government is, in fact, that money that's not enough. Has this government made any plans? In the media electronically or printed, it doesn't matter, we hear daily praises that this government has managed to overcome the crisis, that production is moving, that we will be well, that we are the best in the region, that we are better away than the other former republics of Yugoslavia, and even the state in the environment. There's an automatic question about how we're the best, and all these countries around here have a stable course, and ours is skating, it just can't determine what tomorrow will be like, let alone in a week? According to the latest information, the big panic is both Governor Šoštic and the National Bank for fear of going wild. When a course goes wild, the experience tells us that it goes beyond real value. Experts say that then, God forbid, he could go to 200 dinars. This isn't market data, this is the exact data. But this government is still doing its own personal interests, getting as many supporters and political points as possible, saying something that absolutely no ordinary citizen can believe. It's going to be for some who act like it's going to be a blow to the head, but it's going to be about that. All governments in the EU have brought in some austerity plan. If you only open a German government site, you don't have to know German to find one word, one verb – asparagus, which means asparagus – save. In all EU countries, there is a plan for saving, rationalising the state administration, precisely because of the global economic crisis, and only with us. It doesn't exist because the truth can't come out, because then the political elite leading this country would get a huge downs, and the question is, how would it go in the next election, and we're witnessing every step of the way that the election campaign is in motion. That's why we suspect that this bill and the amendments of these two members will actually come to life and succeed. We in the SRS are well-intentioned to criticize and warn above all, and time will show what is happening and what is going to happen to this law. It explains that no financial resources are needed, which absolutely cannot be true, because implementation of this law requires funds. How and what basic means in municipalities and public enterprises and institutions will communication be made possible by electronic means if we do not have trained people and we do not have the means to work? So that's incorrect, too, but well, that's what someone's going to judge. The local administration is in big trouble, and I'm going to use this incomplete minute to ask the Minister specifically. Me and the rest of the SRS are interested in what happened to Prime Minister Cvetkovic's agreement with Patriarch Irine, who agreed to return all the parent books? It's about this law that the state took from the church and religious communities in 1946 for cheating. Mr. Markovic said the government authorised him to conclude individual agreements with churches and religious communities, defining concrete cases of book return. I remind you, only for the Serbian Orthodox Church is about 15,000 parent books and another 6,000 that are in the "competent" archives. That's the information Mr. Secretary presented. It was supposed to happen 60 years ago, but it wasn't, and the government itself said it was ready to do so in the next period. I hope this will also help many statistics, especially when it comes to SPC data, and even if this law enlivens that it will all be in electronic form and form. That's it, I just fit in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-01-0.u47823	The People's MP Srdjan Spasojevic has the word, followed by MP Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-01-0.u47824	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, respected citizens of Serbia, today the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on State Administration and at first I will say that I do not see any reason to practically open a debate on this agenda for a whole parliamentary day to be implemented through this law. Of course someone's going to say yes, but there's no touch points from these two points forward, but that's how practice was established here. We were also going to combine something much less compatible, so I don't see any reason why the citizens of Serbia, given the changes proposed, are practically Serbian citizens one very expensive day of this parliament in one discussion, separate especially for this part of the agenda, but what is there. In particular to this law, I will say that what is proposed by this law, regardless of what the opposition is, we must admit that this part of the law is correct, this unique and practical part, the birth certificate proposed by this law, is certain that, if it is implemented in practice as it is imagined, it will produce some results. It is known that Serbian citizens have had problems with performances over a long period of time, especially those who perform had to take out the place of birth, so it often required both time and money. The fact is that with such a unique, practical insight that it will facilitate this process, but as for everyone, I am afraid that because of the old habits of certain administrations, surely according to the old one, that the copy is older than six months, there will still be problems in some municipalities, hence the suggestion that this law, if implemented, will give some improvement. It is about that, but generally, Mr. Minister, there are a lot of problems in the state administration, first of all, and what is now proposed with the salary hikes that will come from New Year's, not enough to motivate people in the state administration to implement this law, as well as many other laws, because these pay increases that will follow are extremely small and practical all that happens through inflation, through accumulated accounts of Serbian citizens, I don't know whether it will be adequately possible to cover the increase of several thousand dinars. That something needs to be done in general, perhaps through some types of reduction in certain or some merger of certain jobs, reducing the number of employees may be the efficiency of repairs, and then this efficiency and of course means and the possibility of increasing wages would certainly be more adequate in that case, so we don't think that what's going to happen since New Year's Eve is going to be important to fix things in the state administration. So it can't be said that there are certain synchronisations between certain ministries, because you in one municipality are going to do something. For example, specifically in the King these days, we have had a problem with the director of the Tax Administration in this particular situation, now because of the elemental accident that was, when we practically last week, and it affected the opposition's insistence, the finance minister. It simply mustn't happen that we don't have a director of the tax administration, and I'll tell you specifically why. If in this situation, when the catastre had to be so fast that many people in various transactions that could happen, maybe many of them would be building these houses in some other position than where they had houses, so we haven't had enough efficiency, we haven't had 20 days since the earthquake. Why? Why wasn't someone there in the IRS authorized if there wasn't a director to sign an ordinary confirmation that the IRS was paid. Now, to some insistence practically from the speaker, this problem is now solved, so simply in such situations, some basic co-operation should be established, regardless of the various political opinions and the like. This is the moment, Mr. Minister, I find it illegal for the King to have practically no one from the opposition in crisis headquarters when it comes to the earthquake. And the President of Parliament visited the King, but he did not invite me as a MP to attend, to make some of my contributions there and then some of the problems arise that someone self-initiatively wants to organise some action. But, in particular, this morning what we had was controversy, New Serbia, the mayor of Topola Dragan Jovanovic, is precisely because of the inability of such real communication – people, let's go to the Centre for Social Work, see who's the most vulnerable and help these people. What's the result? The result is that a record is put on, and these days the house will be sheltered. This time, from this pay phone, I appeal to all the mayors and presidents of the municipalities to follow the example of Dragan Jovanovic, because we have about so many municipalities, I'm not saying that they can all endure such a thing, we have very poor municipalities, but some municipalities can do three, four, five houses, to make their contribution specifically, I'm not saying whether it's an opposition or a positional municipality anymore. At this point, when it comes to the King, it doesn't matter if one synchronised action is made, that the citizens of the Kings feel better. Now whether or not a member of the party is responsible, I say, particularly in the situation of Mr Simović Predrag from Ibarska Street, that he was never a man, and this time really because of him who sleeps safely in certain conditions, first of all, it's embarrassing to say that a member of a party or not, that man, in the opinion of the Centre for Social Work, was the most endangered, but I will not talk about it anymore. That's enough this morning. Once again, I call on all municipal presidents to join in and follow the example of Topola President Dragan Jovanovic, because this will speed up and help the state solve many problems. Once again, I want to point out that the law is correct. It should be checked whether this will all be respected on the ground, old habits in certain people, in a particular administration, about the fact that six months have expired, to prevent that possibility. I'm not sure all municipalities in Serbia can handle them electronically. There is work to be done on, to equip state administrations, or municipal administrations with the possibility of this being monitored, and if all of this were to be implemented, then this law would certainly be meaningful. In that direction, you'd be correct. I will be honest with you, I see no reason why we have practically singled out practically all day today because we need to take care and act rationally in the Serbian Parliament, if we expect this from the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-01-0.u47825	Eight minutes and 20 seconds of MP time have been used. The People's Messenger Miroslav Petkovic has the word, and after him the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-01-0.u47826	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Markovic, you are the head of an extremely important ministry and have taken over many body-related obligations that have certain responsibilities in Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedji and you have obligations in the King as well. I am pleased that you have taken the time to be present today in parliament, that together with the MPs, we will do everything we can to make sure that the state administration's reforms are truly as high as possible. The bill really makes sense, and there's not much to be resented. Although I see two members of the bill, the amendment of the government has already arrived, and this proposal is being slightly improved. It's probably a new quality. We are concerned, understand this extremely well-intentioned, all that the reform government of the Republic of Serbia is doing, I will refer to the reform of the judiciary, which we have had many objections, many objections, but the government has not heard about all these remarks until the European Commission's report arrived. I have one request, and I hope you don't mind. You are a prominent lawyer and president of a large Belgrade municipality. You're familiar with the problems. You used to do that duty before you went to the government. I'd like to give you a solution to the Court of Justice of Chattina and a solution to the Great Court of Uzic, regarding the problems that people in local self-government have there. I don't know if the joint session of the General Court in Užica passed a law on restitution, and on the basis of the nationalised property in 1959, the court reached a solution that the municipality of Chajetina, the local self-government should pay hundreds of millions of fees to the persons who sought the return of property, so I think this is a problem that can block a successful municipality. Not to go into political reasons whether it's because the DSS has absolute authority in the Chattina municipality, I don't want to be maligned, but everything points to it. I am afraid this problem will also be opened in many other local self-governments if this practice is brought to life in Serbia. That's a serious problem for the whole country, then, without talking about other reforms besides the one you're carrying out. We're waiting for reform of the pension system. We can't wait for the PIO law to come next week. We're really worried about reforming the state administration. If this is the only problem, the change of these two members, then we're happy people and we live in an orderly state, but I'm afraid that in this country, the economic and security and economic and economic and cultural and health and education system. That's what we had a chance to see yesterday. It is obvious that this country does not work in the best possible way when the Prime Minister of Vojvodina can provide free schooling, or budget funding to students from Novi Sad, when Belgrade's mayor can do the same with Belgrade University students. The question is, what do people do in Nis or Kragujevac? That's already another problem. The DSS has made a concrete proposal, to fund students in a unique way, because it is really inadmissible for students to starve in front of the government. What are the effects of the laws adopted in December? These are the famous laws 28,400 plus 2,840 plus four to 10,000 plus four to 1,000. The deadline for the systematicisation of new jobs was 31 December 2009. I wonder if you have any information as to how many executives have failed to fulfil that obligation within the legal deadline and how much, since the fine for those persons has been provided for by a million dinars, if I am not mistaken, how many millions have been paid into the budget of the Republic of Serbia, in order to help students and how much of those who have received the rating not to satisfy what they have done in their workplace. At the time, this law was declared on December 16th last year. At the same time, President Tadic first presented his idea to approach the government's reconstruction and that certain municipality presidents are not doing their job well and that this should be changed after the friendly criticism accepted by Mr Batic, and Prime Minister Cvetkovic also said in October this year that this could lead to certain savings in the budget and better functioning of the government. So it does not exclude the possibility that if coalition partners agree, the number of ministers will be reduced. I wonder if Prime Minister Cvetkovic has gone on board and is he going to be serious about this business if he's even asking about it? According to his statement, it means not only a mere debate on the work of ministers but only a reduction in the number of ministries to save some money. Mr Djelic presented the thesis that a reduction in the number of ministries will speed up Serbia's European integration. I wonder what you are waiting for to be implemented as soon as possible, but I fear that the reason for this is the electoral assembly of individual parties in Serbia, that it will then be joined. Of course, the reason for the government's reconstruction is not saving because the government of the Republic of Serbia, the Serbian presidency, the Serbian Parliament owes more for water, electricity and utility than the cost of the entire government's work. The only thing that might shorten the duration of the government's phone sessions will not be the need to call 25 ministers, but only 10 or 15. What does the transmission say about what Boris Tadic said about himself? He's not sure he has the strength to conduct a rationalization of the state administration. Mr. Markovic, please be a man who will have the strength to implement reforms and state administrations and help local self-government. According to the data provided, there is a problem with extra employees of some 110 units of local self-government. I hope they removed these problems, so they don't reduce their transfer funds and by the number of employees in local self-government. You know the transfer funds have been cut from 41 billion to 26 billion dinars. We had a petition of 150 presidents of municipalities and mayors, there was Mayor Paracino, Smederev, Nis, who submitted the petition to the local self-governments. I cite people who are in this photograph because they are the mayors of your party, so if they have problems, imagine what just problems some municipalities have that are in opposition to the republican rule. For my city, for Cacak, last year 180 million were reduced, this year 180 million dinars and everything indicates that it will be the same next year. When we translate it into some real life, it's two bridges down on West Morava, it's two kindergartens less in the town of Chačka, it's an inability to build a home for the old. These are real problems that concern all citizens living in local self-government. I can't understand the argument that it's done to preserve macroeconomic stability in the country. Obviously, this government cannot maintain even macroeconomic stability in the country. Minister Milosavljevic spoke here the other day, I understand the need to introduce an electronic administration in Serbia and I support it, but I cannot understand that there is no milk in Serbia and then we have two options – either to milk citizens or to import milk. Please, Mr. Minister, obviously there is no help from Dr. Cvetkovic, nor Dr. Diana Dragutinović, nor from Dr. Filgood, that you realize that there are some people living under Belgrade who have their own needs, who want to stay in this country, so from there you can help us who live in the interior of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-01-0.u47827	Eight minutes and 25 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-01-0.u47828	Since Mr. Spasojevic is here, and you have also talked about this state of government and local self-government, the issue of reforming the state administration itself is behind all political decisions. Although I am Minister of State Administration, I cannot implement a reform of the state administration unless there is a political decision to implement it. Unfortunately, since the adoption of the law in 2005 and the establishment of certain principles, we have not strayed much. That goes for the first government, where the prime minister was Mr. Kostunica, for the second government, for this current government. I'm saying that since 2005 not much has been done. It's very difficult to be a minister of state without having instruments. I live with that whenever someone says it's wrong in the administration, waiting for a building permit for two years, people say -- that's the state administration. It's not the state administration, on the one hand. On the other hand, when you say the number of employees, depoliticization, again as a minister, I have to suffer that kind of criticism, and I am objectively not responsible for it. The issue of state administration is a very serious issue and it is constantly being placed in public in one wrong way. That's what we're all into. It's these popular sayings -- chalets, these kind of things, etc. We're actually playing with something that we all need very much, be the government, be the opposition. We're all citizens and we all use the service of the state administration. Then, for these political reasons, media, decisions are made which, in my opinion, are not correct. When it comes to reforming the state administration and reducing the number of employees in the state administration and local administration, we had two concepts. One concept I gave you. The second concept was unfortunately accepted by the government. So my concept wasn't accepted and so the data you're looking for was transferred to other ministries and they're currently monitoring the application of these laws, which I think was fair. If my rationalization concept is not already accepted, then there's no need to follow laws that I don't believe will deliver. Today we have the result we have, just as thin as it was before. You have to be brave here, I'll use that to say - there's no state administration with 30 thousand dinars. If this is what millions of people are looking at, 990,000 says what this guy's talking about. Again, there is no state administration with a salary of 30,000 dinars. There isn't. The crisis will go away, once the crisis is over, and what little is worth in the state administration will go away because there will be new jobs. The government will be left with those who can't find a better job. Now someone might like it, what they're going to do, but it's up to all of us to live on it. They're the ones making the laws. Ministers give a political idea. If they understand a little bit more about matter, it's good, because they can shape it, but the fundamental government of the state is, by law and by logic, involved in forming a state policy. No country in the world is playing with the government. The state administration of no state in the world is the subject of you going to be in front of the cameras, so we're going to cut off 20. It's not meat, so we'll cut off three steaks. We have a serious problem with the state administration, I have been warning for two years, and the problem requires a political consensus on how the state administration in Serbia will reform. This is not a question of election campaigns, as I said about the organisation of the state, regionalisation and I don't know what it is, these are not election campaign issues. These are the most serious state issues, and there must be as broad a social consensus as possible, and above all a clear view of the political parties that have taken responsibility for the exercise of power. That wasn't in the government you ran either, there's no clear attitude in the government where I'm the minister, and I was a minister in your government as well. In both governments, I was a minister. Therefore, it is possible after some of the next elections to join a more thorough answer to the question both local self-government and state administration. This change in salary increases is just to save a number of people who are on the verge of existence, but literally to save them a little bit, to keep the system in a state in which it is in some future period. We need a comprehensive reform. It is impossible and does not depend on the minister and ministry. It is such a serious and huge issue that it must be decided by a political consensus at the level of the government. Unfortunately, no one sitting here raised that question while he was able to move it. It may be individual in the way I run it, but we all carry that responsibility as a political party that wasn't done and that's why I can talk about it so freely. If I didn't, I shouldn't talk about it, but I can talk about it like this because nobody here has amnested responsibility for not being done properly. Thank you for thinking well of this law, as well as Mr. Spasojevic. I'm glad you agree with what's done. This will take at least two years, because local self-government units are slowly transferring from paper to electronic form and it will last. A colleague expressed concern about security. This is twice as safe as what we have today. Today we have units of local self-government in paper form and we all know it well. Now we're going to have a second example of an electronic birth certificate in electronic form. Status and reception goes encrypted, no connections unprotected, i.e. the message itself is not unprotected. She's not available to anyone. The entrance goes exclusively with a certificate. The system records the moment of entry, the duration, the operation and the name and the name of the person who entered the system. So it's from the point of view of security perfectly correct. It is true that we have added one amendment. It's for Mr. Shabic's intervention. There is really no need for me to be smarter than the one who is by law and choice by the National Assembly authorized to follow this. It was his intervention and we're doing this closely with him. Basically, and that's the answer to some earlier questions, this is a law that determines what once in the ZUP was an option as a commitment. The essence of these amendments to the law is to determine the obligation and manner of communication of state authorities. The ZUP itself will prescribe part of what someone thinks should be here. So, I don't think so. The Law itself on the Protection of Personality Data will also be a framework for this future work. As far as professional training is concerned, we have here under the State Administration Act that only a high professional prepares can do jobs, or act in administrative proceedings. I think it's the right thing to do. We've also passed it on to the Home Book Act. However, that solution conflicts with our lives, with reality. There is no doubt that many law - acquittals carry out these tasks, i.e., conduct certain procedures without having a high level of expertise rather than having a higher or even medium professional arrangement. So my final view is that we should keep that high standard to the general law, in the Law on State Administration, the General Administrative Procedure Act and in the Law on Parent Books, since we have provided for exams, etc., to introduce that high standard. I think special laws, such as the Law on the Police, the Customs Procedure Act, and other special laws, will not list, from other areas, that it will likely be possible for certain procedures of first-degree personnel with medium-level expertise. I think that's what's real today. It'll all stay that way. As for the parent books themselves, it is undeniable that after retirement, those who are now working with senior and secondary professional training will exclusively perform the work of the mothermaker with high professional training, because no one can get a job and do the job of the queen if he does not have high professional training. We are going back to that topic – in the municipalities people cannot find the head of the municipal administration of a man with five years of work experience, i.e. in the profession. It may be found for the chief, but most smaller municipalities can't be found, because for a salary of 24 thousand dinars, as much as it would be, or 25 if the law applied, people won't work. We must once boldly say whether or not we want a professional administration. If we want an expert, we have to pay. If we don't want a professional, depolitized professional administration, professional, then we should say – we won't, but the consequences will be borne by us. It's like having private and public health care, so in private pay it gets four times bigger, and then you wonder what good doctors in public health don't do. Fortunately, good doctors work for us, because it's not so developed. But the labour market will one day get everything out of the state administration and that's the problem we're facing, like now public agencies in a multi-year process of abnormal production, awakening, pulling a bunch of personnel out of the state administration into public agencies. I think a serious government is going to have to cut it off and review whether the state administration's affairs are being done outside the state administration's authority. They can't be carried out in the authorities of the state administration after the state administration. And we did it all together again. It's not the invention of this or the previous, it's a series of governments. In those areas where agencies should exist, they should exist, but no one can convince me that they should exist in all the affairs of the state administration, because then the authority of the state administration doesn't have to exist, or the agency is just a way to avoid the Rigid Law in the State Administration. The law on state administration by nature must be rigid. I have not heard that the measurement system is translated into Serbian, it says – in the state administration. Where's that? In the military, the police, the government doesn't have that system. They're rigid systems and they have to be in order to avoid politicization. It is a fine line between depoliticalism, i.e. between politicisation and progress towards knowledge and expertise. You need to find a measure between that. Our law, which was passed in 2005, is good. He's a little overcomplicated. In the meantime, we made it a little bit simpler. These are major state procedures. It is no wonder that this process lasts so long and is difficult to implement, but it has occurred in the situation that this process may affect 14,000 people and everyone is talking about the state administration. What's the state administration? That's what we're gonna say here once, to take this opportunity, to figure out what the state administration is. Who are we talking about when we talk about the state administration? Those strictly subject to the Law on civil servants, tenants, the Law on Salaries, civil servants, tenants, you don't have 14,000 or 30,000 of those people, but in public, when you mention them, they break a car. Already, that difference by 26,000 has already partially emerged from the system on various grounds. Then you have another 400 and something, 500 thousand people who are civil servants in a broader sense of the word, but they're not government. It is said to me as a minister – you have half a million employees in the state administration. In the state administration, strictly, if there are about tens of thousands. I mean, as much as this whole topic in our society has become so day-to-day policy, we'll all suffer unless you give them these changes. The state administration is a pillar of the state. Good government, good country. Bad government, bad state. Good government, depoliticized, professionalized, with good pay. Bad government, no money, no pay and politicized. What I just said was a political disaster, unpopular. But I can afford to say it, because I've said it before. It's not something new.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-01-0.u47829	The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. It was last registered on the list in order of MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-01-0.u47830	Dear Vice-Presidents, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and MPs, within this item of the agenda, we have before us a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on State Administration. I must stress this in order to return to the topic of the agenda, because there have been debates today about many things, issues that are subject to regulation of other laws and issues that are not regulated at all by law. In order to better understand the essence of the changes and additions proposed, I will remind you that the State Administration Act was adopted in 2005. It was amended and completed in 2007. Again, the proposal to amend and supplement this law shows how much the proposing monitors changes in our legal system, in our society, the need for modernisation and harmonisation with legislation, but also with practice in EU countries. The state administration law defines the state administration as part of the executive government of the Republic of Serbia, which carries out administrative tasks under the rights and duties of the Republic of Serbia. The state administration is comprised of ministries, administration bodies, and special organisation. The authorities of the state administration are organised by law and are determined by law. The law stipulates that the principles of the functioning of the state administration body are independence and legality in work, the public in work, expertise, impartiality and political neutrality, efficiency in the exercise of party rights, proportionality in respect of parties. For the sake of consistent implementation of the last two principles, in order to achieve efficiency in work, facilitating the parties, eliminating the inequality and discrimination of parties, it is proposed to add, after Article 75, the title that reads – the mutual relations between the authorities of the state administration and the relationship with other bodies and public authorities in the process of resolving the rights, obligations and legal interests of the parties. He himself explains what this is about. It is further proposed to add Article 75a below this title. I will not quote the contents of this article because fellow Members of Parliament in today's discussion have repeatedly been instructed to do so. What's important is we ask ourselves when we decide every bill of law is, what do citizens have from this law? What benefits do citizens benefit from passing such a law? The proposed amendments and additions will create an improvement in the position of parties before the authorities of the state administration, regardless of whether they are parties which are natural persons, legal persons or other entities. On the other hand, it creates a basis and supports the development and application in the practice of information technologies in the field of state administration in two ways. First, forming different databases. Second, the establishment of a single system of communication between state authorities, authorities of territorial autonomy units, units of local self-government and public authorities in the entire territory of the state. As the minister has already said, the project introduces information technologies into the authorities of the state administration, into units of territorial autonomy, units of local self-government are already under way. The current waiting problems will be solved in line for various beliefs and confirmations which we have all witnessed, travel to places where we are enrolled in books of born or in the books of citizens. We know that the practice, that the regulations were different in the period behind us. For a time, the entry into the books of the citizens was at the birthplace, then in one period after the birthplace of the father. All of this created problems for citizens to come up with the necessary acts, beliefs and certificates. Then, waiting in line on taxi counters, etc. There will be no more of this. The introduction of such a proposed law supplement and the introduction of changes to the authorities of the state administration create opportunities to reduce the importance of bureaucracy in a negative sense, which is quite present with us.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-01-0.u47831	Six minutes of MP time was used. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? No, I don't. ) In that case, I conclude a principled search of the bill. This concludes work for today and continues tomorrow, December 2nd, at 10:00 p.m. on Thursday. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 6th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sittings are attended by 93 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I ask the MPs to check their cards, because visually in the benches, I see that there are four or five MPs, and only two or three cards. Thank you. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 89 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I remind the MPs that on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and after opening the session and setting out the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate, the National Assembly is working on the basis of Article 286(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which says that the MP has the right to request a notice and an explanation from the President of the National Assembly, from the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, and on issues covered by the rights and duties of these officials and from the authority of the authorities at which they are headed. This right, exceptionally, the President, or the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, has and can be achieved at the session of the National Assembly orally in a single address of five minutes on Tuesdays and Thursdays, immediately after the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate. I ask if any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, would like to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 286. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? National MP Konstantin Arsenovic has a word.
