ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43702	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 99 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 114 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of a given Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. On Tuesdays and Thursdays only, following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of Members of Parliament attending the session, and before moving to a further debate, the session shall take place on the basis of Article 235(2). The Rules of Procedure, under which the President, or the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, has the right to request a notice, orally, in one address up to five minutes, immediately after the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of Members of Parliament attending the sitting, and before moving to a further debate. National MP Slobodan Samardzic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43703	Dear People's MPs, the chairman-in-Office of the Assembly, this morning, the media, in particular, published information that yesterday, at a meeting of the Council of Ministers during the meeting, the EU offered its intervention in dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina (so formulated). That information can easily be linked to yesterday's, that a certain anonymous envoy of the President of the Republic was in Brussels and presented our view of Kosovo's problem as, according to Catherine Ashton and Frank Frattini, a peaceful proposal. I ask the foreign minister's notice, as we had a debate yesterday, and since he informed the Assembly that Serbia would seek negotiations between Belgrade and Pristina at the UN General Assembly in late September, as part of its resolution there. This information, that the EU will mediate in dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina, is a fundamental difference between what we were presented yesterday and what EU representatives said today. So, I am looking for accurate information for the DSS parliamentary group, but also for the entire Assembly – what is it, has the Serbian Government given up the request to the General Assembly to seek status negotiations, or is this EU representative's information incorrect? The second thing we are looking for is that this written document, which the envoy gave to EU representatives, so to the High Representative for Foreign Policy, is being born, published, and at the very least, to be presented first to the MPs of the assembly. We heard yesterday that 55 envoys would go around the world with a message from the President of the Republic. There was also information yesterday that the one -- anonymous, though -- was one of those 55 envoys. We know the name of only one so far, we heard it yesterday in this debate, for the others we don't know, but maybe they don't matter because they're not chosen. This one who was alive yesterday, with no name and no last name for now. It would be good if we knew who it was, because it's a public matter, and let's see what he pictured there, because that's a public matter, too. Namely, the letter sent by the President of the Republic to 55 addresses is not a secret but a public one, and therefore the Assembly must know about it. So we are looking for these two notices - whether the government has given up its request to the General Assembly, so for status and not for dialogue, and we are looking for what is contained in the recommendation for the EU by the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43704	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43705	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday I noticed one news that certainly wasn't current after yesterday's events, but it is very important for Serbia. In fact, yesterday it was on the territory of Vojvodina (it seems to me that Sombor, but that is less important) that there was again the arrest of a group of doctors and several other suspects, it seems to me from the Pension Fund, due to malfeasance with retirement. In fact, it's a long-known thing, and it's also about crime and corruption, that medical commissions in Serbia help certain people retire earlier than the law rules by declaring them sick, and then receiving them from the state pension, em work in black on certain jobs they have knowledge of. It's a lot of buildings, where hard work inspection can determine if it's all in accordance with the law. In this way, firstly, young people are left without the possibility of employment, and secondly, the state is damaged by a certain portion of the budget, because someone is receiving a pension that does not belong to him under the law. However, that was the case we had, such arrests were made, even the court proceedings began, in the city from which I came, in Smederev, back in 2005. Yesterday in this news, it was said that this action will continue and that it has been happening in the last two years in cities in the territory of Vojvodina. This was happening in the territory of Smedereva, Negotina, Majdanpek, and it seems to me that several other cities were covered by the 2005 action. Until today's trial isn't over. Twenty faces, maybe more, are in front of the court. The Minister of Justice should answer whether, when it comes to the case, it is procedural law or what it is, but to this day, for five years now, this process is not over. Otherwise, there is a doctor who was once mayor of Smederev, and now is deputy mayor who is from DS (she is from one group of citizens, not from DS), so the whole trial has somehow been brought to the level of politics. My question is for Minister Dacic and Minister Malovic – what will be done, most of all, for the police and for these arrests, to prevent more of this type of crime and corruption in Serbia? Because this whole case is crime and corruption. The budget has been damaged, there are also abuses of the official position, these are all crimes, and there are corruptions, because they are being done because bribes are being taken. Is it really going to continue with that action? And the action might not have had to come if the court had completed its work since 2005, according to this case, because then it would have stopped doing so in Serbia. So I also have a question for the minister, she can check – how long has this case arrived and when will this trial, which I repeat, take five years for it to be over? Once we have convicted doctors for such a thing (if they are guilty, of course), then we certainly won't have such cases for a while anymore, because I don't think anyone will dare do it. Like this, a constant arrest, and no one is convicted – gives the necessary result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43706	The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43707	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday, we had a substantive debate following the International Court of Justice's opinion that Kosovo has declared independence in accordance with Resolution 1244 of the Constitutional Framework. We heard Mr Tadic's opinion and speech. He said in that speech a sentence, which does not give us peace in LDP – if anyone thinks we will enter the EU without Kosovo, he is wrong. This is the policy of 'Kosovo and Europe', in which you won the elections, which is not controversial, but the results so far, in principle, show that this policy comes down to'neither Kosovo nor Europe'. I will expand the issue a little, and it concerns foreign policy in the region and information that came from Montenegro at the time of the local elections, that President Tadic's adviser interferes with Montenegro's internal affairs, that he ran a campaign against authorities in Montenegro, etc. We held a meeting of the Committee on Serbs outside Serbia ten days ago, where representatives of Serbs from Macedonia spoke. They reiterated something similar, that the same adviser, Mr. President, has been meddling in Serbia's relations with the Serbs, that the leading political party of Serbs in Macedonia, led by Ivan Stojljkovic, has been trying to break up for eight years, that they have been blackmailed by Tadic's adviser to tear down the government of Gruevski, because, of course, negotiations between Greece and Macedonia have been stuck, and we hear that these negotiations are in a more advanced phase and that Macedonia will receive a call for NATO membership. My question is simple: is this attitude towards these two countries, and can we also see the continuity of this relationship after Kosovo's recognition, that is, the General Assembly's decision to ask for the International Court of Justice's opinion, has something to do with the accelerated approximation of these two NATO countries, because, by the end of the year, the two countries will be admitted to NATO, and on the other hand, all of what we hear back a year from Belgrade, leading to some destabilization of the two countries? I really wish this was a coincidence. I don't think imperial politics is in Serbia's interest, I don't think that's how you become leader in the Balkans. I see that Mr. President didn't mention yesterday that we should be a leader in the Balkans, but he said we should be a significant regional factor, which is positive, but those words must follow the works. Therefore, my question is -- did our ambassador to Skopje, our ambassador to Serbia, try to replace the leader of Serbs in Macedonia, ask him to tear down the government of Gruevski several months ago, just as negotiations between Macedonia and Greece seem to end and in fact pave the way for Macedonia to become a full NATO member? I am asking this because I am convinced that Macedonia and Montenegro's NATO membership will all of you, gentlemen who, in one Kosovo resolution, have made some kind of semi-species about military neutrality, understand and speed up Serbia's determination towards NATO. After all, if you are honest with Europe, then you will certainly accept that it is faster to enter Europe through NATO membership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43708	The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43709	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will refer two questions to the Government. One will rely partly on that discussion that was conducted here in the Assembly yesterday. The first question, of course, is the continuation of a set of issues, which I have been permanently asking the government of the Republic of Serbia over the past few months, which refers to the municipality of Bosilegrad. Due to the government's indolent relationship with the government's representatives on issues and problems raised through these issues, we are forced to refer the issue to the government again after two or three months, and this concerns the following. The past two months or something more in the municipal administration building, a Bulgarian flag has been highlighted in the construction of the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia in the municipality of Bosilegrad. The SRS is interested – according to what law or law did the state, or municipal authorities of the municipality of Bosilegrad call for when they pointed out the Bulgarian flag at the Bosilegrad Municipal Administration building? If that is not regulated by law, we ask – what interstate contract or agreement is such a definition? We're asking the government to give us an answer to that question. We have this problem, which several people, an extreme group of people in Bosilegrad, are encouraging and disintegrating, we have tried the Government of the RS and representatives of the assembly majority to present as serious, especially because these same people are not hiding their definition that this part of the Republic of Serbia is actually occupied part of the Republic of Bulgaria. If you'd responded in time or at least a little bit of commitment and will to show that, in accordance with your constitutional and legal powers, we're assuming that we wouldn't be worse today in the situation we're in. We have asked the Government of the Republic of Serbia to answer the question whether there are elements of the collapse of the constitutional order and on this basis to initiate criminal or before the competent state authorities certain procedures. The government is left out of it and things are just escalating and developing, being based, which objectively presents a problem for the citizens of Bosilegrad, i.e. the citizens of the Pcinj County. My second question to the RS government concerns part of the story that was told here yesterday in the Republic Parliament, the subject we talked about yesterday, and it concerns the Presevo municipality. Yesterday you heard, in the part of the discussion concerning the Presevo municipality, that Albanians live downstairs in the ghetto. Based on one document the RS government received three months ago, the SRS concluded and was under the impression that Serbs still live in the ghetto downstairs. On April 25th, the "Serbian List for Presevo" coalition brought a document to the government. The document is in fact a proposal for measures that Serbs living in Presevo think would be necessary to bring, adopt, start implementing on the ground to make their position and life below bearable. I repeat, you were here yesterday listening to stories about the ghettoisation of Albanians. But if you go to the Community Administration building in Presevo today, you'll see that one banal and elemental principle of bilingualism is not respected. You won't find anything down there in the municipal administration building at the door, where the secretary of the assembly or the captain writes anything written in Serbian. It's all in Shiptar, Albanian. In these measures, Serb representatives downstairs are demanding that the government adopt a specific programme to prevent the emigration of Serbs from the municipality. The government, according to Serbs, should reconstruct the Co-ordination Body, which they believe is insufficiently and indeterminately engaged in resolving the economic, existential, or life problems of the Serb community in the Presevo municipality. The government is also asked to review all the infrastructure projects it finances, as they are believed to be in the role of the Cypriot interests, i.e. they are opposed to the interests of the Serb community living downstairs. Through these measures, it is also required to review the position and possibility of hiring Serbs in the local self-government in the Presevo municipality. Of course, these measures are also required to review the decision that was made through the so-called so-called. A reform of the judiciary, that all Serbs employed in the Presevo court are sent to the Vranj Basic Court, and with Albanians or Shiptars with whom it was done, under political pressure, it happened that they were all returned to the Presevo court. The SRS is asking the government for an answer on what these measures are going to do, but also on the problem in Bosilegrad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43710	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups report for a word to exercise their right under Article 235? No, I don't. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word anymore, we continue our work. Notice of the absence of Members of the People - I inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Bojan Kostreš and Aleksandra Jankovic. Notice of invitations to the sitting - pursuant to Article 88(1) Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the president of the National Assembly of Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, in addition to the representative of Proposor Mladen Nikolic, election member of the High Council of Judges, has called for the session to be attended by Majda Kršikap, the secretary of the High Council of Justice. Explanation of the grounds for calling the sitting within a short period of time set out in Article 84(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly — pursuant to Article 84(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, called for this session within a short period of time than laid down in Article 84(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the agenda set out in the request of 119 MPs to hold an extraordinary session. Ladies and gentlemen, before we continue to work, we need to determine the quorum. Please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I remind the MPs that, on the basis of Article 88(5), the quorum for the work of the National Assembly is one-third. However, since we are scheduled to vote as well, I am setting a five-minute break and calling on MPs to enter the hall so that we can determine the voting quorum, as the session also implies a vote. [[After break – 11.35]] Please be in the O.R. at 12.05 p.m. and allow your presence to vote on the agenda. Thank you. [[After break – 12.10]] Ladies and gentlemen, before we continue to work, we need to determine the quorum. I remind you that according to Article 86(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day and when the minutes are adopted from the previous session and the establishment of the agenda exist if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. Please insert your identification cards into the MPs' voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 127 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than 126 MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call for the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010, which was called at the request of 119 MPs, according to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 169 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been submitted to you for the maintenance of the Fifth Extraordinary Session with a specific agenda of three points, contained in that request. The proposal to put the act on the agenda by emergency procedure during the sitting shall be possible in accordance with Article 165(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The state's major prosecutor suggested putting the agenda on the agenda of this session -- a proposal to elect a deputy public prosecutor, who submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on July 23rd 2010. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Of the 130 MPs, 127 voted in favour. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a decision on the election of judges to a three-year term in courts of general and special jurisdiction, submitted by the High Council of the judiciary; 2. Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the National Bank of Serbia's National Bank Board, which was submitted by the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; 3. Proposal for a decision on the appointment of the Deputy Secretary-General of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, who was submitted by the Secretary-General of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; 4. Proposal for a decision on the election of a deputy public prosecutor, who submitted the State's major prosecutors with a motion to merge the debate. National MP Vlatko Ratkovic is, on the basis of Article 163(3), and in accordance with Article 90(3) and Article 142(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed that a joint single search be carried out on the motion for a decision to elect judges for a three-year term in courts of general and special jurisdiction and a proposal for a decision to elect a deputy public prosecutor. Does MP Vlatko Ratkovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I find that 127, of the 128 MPs, voted in favour of this proposal, and the Assembly accepted MP Vlatko Ratkovic's proposal for a joint single search on the motion for a decision on the election of judges to a three-year term in courts of general and special jurisdiction and a proposal for a decision to elect a deputy public prosecutor. We're going to work on the agenda. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint single search on the motion for a decision to elect judges to a three-year term in courts of general and special jurisdiction and a proposal for a decision to elect a deputy public prosecutor and before opening a search, I remind you that, under Article 163(3) and Article 94, paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours, as well as that this time shall be allocated to MPs' groups in proportion to the number of MPs of each member of the Parliament's group, and this shall be one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group – one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MP group "Forward, Serbia" – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; the SPS-JS Group - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliament group "New Serbia" – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Slav group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS Group of Members – six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak each and every one, up to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent: MP Nebojsa Rangelovic – MP group LDP and MP Petar Jojic – SRS parliamentary group. If any other MPs have information about an authorised representative, please be delivered to me, so that I can inform the National Assembly. We move to the 1st and 4th points of the agenda – a proposal for a decision on the election of the judge to a three-year term in the courts of general and special jurisdiction and a proposal for a decision on the election of the deputy public prosecutor (joint single search) before I offer the word to the proposing representatives, I am informing the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 85 paragraph 5, that today we will be working even after 1800 hours, by discussing the point of the agenda which at that time is the subject of our work, and that today's one-hour break will be at 15.00 hours. Do the representatives of the motion – Mladen Nikolic, election member of the High Council of Judges, Zagorka Dolovac, president of the State Council of Prosecutors and Djorđe Ostojic, election member of the State Council of Prosecutors – want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mladen Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43712	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is the High Council of the judiciary, on the basis of Article 47. The law on judges, with regard to the decision on the number of judges in the courts, announced the choice of judges in the courts of general and special jurisdiction in the Republic of Serbia, in order to fill 81 of the vacancy. The ad was published on 19 February 2010 in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia" and in the daily "Politika". In accordance with the powers laid down in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 154, and the provisions of Article 13(3) of the Law on the High Council of the judiciary and the provisions of Article 50(4). The Law on Judges, the High Council of the Judiciary, has proposed candidates for the first election in a judicial capacity, starting with the degree of knowledge (optimism), the skills (training) and the moral qualities (worthyness) that the candidates possess, which represent the necessary conditions for performing the judicial function. The High Council of the judiciary has discussed the timely and complete applications of candidates who are elected to the first judicial post. At the meetings of the High Council of the judiciary, an insight was made into the personal and working biographies of all candidates when deciding on the candidates' proposals. Personal papers have been prepared for candidates from the court's assistants, as well as opinions from the judges' sessions, as well as the departments in which the assistants worked and acted. That opinion refers precisely to expertise, training and dignity. For candidates who do not work in court, an opinion has been obtained from the authorities and organisations in which they work, i.e. companies, state institutions or other bodies, and in the case of candidates from the law firm, an opinion has been delivered from the Bar in which the lawyer is registered. During the examination of candidates from the order of criminal courts and candidates who had served as judges for offences or in the council for offences, the Council appreciated the data on the standard, on the urgency of candidates for the period 2006-2008. the year, and the opinion has also been asked by the High Court of Violent Crimes and Violent Courts. When proposing candidates, the High Council of the Court found that the candidates met all the conditions for the election prescribed by the Law on Judges and Provisions of the Decision on the establishment of criteria and criteria for the assessment of professionalism, competence and dignity for the selection of judges and presidents, which relate to the first choice of judges in a three-year term, particularly in the light of the ranking of candidates according to basic and complementary criteria for the assessment of expertise, with Article 14 and Article 17 of the said decision. The High Council of the judiciary is also, and in accordance with the provisions of Article 46(2). The law on judges also took care of the national composition of the population in the area of the court for which the candidates are proposed. In accordance with Article 50(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Law on Judges, the High Council of the Judiciary proposes to the National Assembly of one or more candidates for the election in one court seat. The list of candidates, I assume, is that I would like to meet the MPs that the High Council of the Judiciary has previously formed a ranking list for each of the individual courts, and then, considering these rankings and considering the tasks that the candidates have done, made up a list, that is, a proposal for candidates who delivered it to the National Assembly. You will notice that there are the most judicial assistants on the list and, according to the assessment of the High Council of the judiciary, they have just shown that they are the most professional, most qualified and worthy of their proposal to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As for the courts themselves and the number of candidates, to mention that 18 candidates were proposed for the basic courts, one candidate was proposed for the Court of Commerce and 8 candidates were proposed for the infringement courts. The High Judicial Council suggests that the National Assembly select proposed candidates. In this way we expect to improve the work and efficiency of the courts, especially in the courts where the candidates will be elected. In the end, let me express my satisfaction that I had the opportunity to address this high house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43713	Does Djordje Ostojic, an election member of the State Council of Prosecutors, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43714	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, based on the provisions of Article 75. The public prosecutor's law, the deputy public prosecutor who is first elected to the post on a proposal by the State's Chief Prosecutor, is elected by the National Assembly for a period of three years. In accordance with the provisions of Articles 78 and 79. The Public Prosecutor's Law, the State's Chief Prosecutors, announced the election as deputy public prosecutor in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" number 28 this year and in the daily list "Politika" on 30 April 2010. All candidates registered who have complied with the law of the prescribed conditions for the selection of deputy public prosecutors have been subject to the procedure for determining the expertise, competence and dignity, and in accordance with Chapters 5 and 6. Regulation on criteria and criteria for the assessment of the expertise, competence and dignity of candidates for the public prosecutor’s office. In accordance with the provisions of Article 23(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The rules on criteria and criteria, the determination of expertise and competences and dignity of assistants shall be carried out by the public prosecutor giving an opinion according to the previously obtained opinion of the deputies in whom the prosecutor has worked, taking into account the success of the studies, the length of study, the success of the judicial examination, participation in training, completed specialist studies or courses, publication of scientific and professional works, academic titles, evaluations of the work of prosecutors as civil servants, as well as the expertise in the performance of specific tasks entrusted. On the basis of Article 24 of this Regulation, the expertise, competence and dignity of candidates who are not from the prosecutor's organisation was supplied by the authorities and organisations, based on data and opinions obtained from the authorities where the candidate worked. For candidates coming from the judicial organisation, opinion was obtained from the president of the court, opinion was obtained from the public defender for defence candidates, and data and opinions on candidates from the law firm were obtained from the Serbian Bar Association of Lawyers. According to the data and opinions obtained from the authorities and organisations in which the candidate worked, the State's chief prosecutor is in accordance with Article 34. Regulation on criteria and criteria for the assessment of the expertise, competence and dignity of candidates, considering each individual application and opinion, gave a final assessment of the expertise, competence and dignity of candidates for the first election of the deputy public prosecutor, and in accordance with the provision of Article 13(2). The State Council Act, on the basis of which it proposed to the National Assembly candidates for the first election of the Deputy Prosecutor. Public prosecutor's deputy in the First General Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, the State's chief prosecutor considered the most favourable, most professional and most qualified candidates: Vojkan Adzic, Maja Vadnjal, Vuk Vlahovic, Ranko Jerkovic, Vesna Petrovic, Gordana Radic, Mirjana Radović Ravlić, Ivana Rakocevic, and Deputy Public Prosecutor at the Basic Public Prosecutor's Office in Valjev Slobodan Stojanovic. As deputy public prosecutor at the Public Prosecutor's Office in Jagodina, the State Council suggests that Nenad Petrovic, Deputy Public Prosecutor at the General Prosecutor's Office in the Kingdom of Dejan Sredkovic, Deputy Public Prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Paracina Snezan Milenkovic, Deputy Public Prosecutor at the Basic Public Prosecutor's Office in Cačka Sladjan Paunovic. For the deputy public prosecutor at the Vranje Public Prosecutor's Office, the State Council proposes Boban Nakic, and for the deputy public prosecutor at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Nis: Andrija Ivic, Aleksandar Stevanovic and Tatjan Stevanovic. For the deputy public prosecutor in the Home Prosecutor's Office in Novi Sad, the state council is proposing Nada Bajic Todorovic and Aleksandra Radovanov, and Deputy Public Prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Sombor Ljubic Obradovic. The urgency of the procedure for the selection of deputy public prosecutors during a three-year term is proposed, given that it is necessary for the selection of proposed candidates for public prosecutorial functions to fill the seats in the public prosecutor's organisation and thus enables the effective functioning and smooth work of public prosecutors in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43715	Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Justice and Administration, MP Bosko Ristic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43716	The President-in-Office, distinguished representatives of the High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, will remind you, as an authorised representative of the LDP Parliament Club, that we of the LDP have supported judicial reform and that this election that is coming to us today is, in fact, some sort of conclusion of the reform of the judiciary. Why did we support judicial reform? Because the situation in the Serbian judiciary, according to a general assessment, was disastrous. It's not just about the new network of courts and the general choice, it's about a lot of what was inert, corruption and any possible anomalies that the judiciary might have. That's why decisions, which shouldn't have fallen, fell in the Supreme Court. That's why we've been meeting with the judge's shifts that led the trials of enormous importance. That's why we've been dealing with political pressures. That is why, in the explanation of Judge Nate Mesarovic, at the trial of the murderers of Prime Minister Djindjic, we had a sad observation that it had not reached the political inspirers of the murder. That's why we've had misdemeanor trials and everything that the judicial authority in one state is burdening and that shouldn't be an attribute of the judicial authority. It was logical that such judicial authority had to be subject to sharp reforms and it was normal to support such a reform. But that does not mean that we have no objection to what the attributes of judicial reform are and how the reform is done. I myself, and the profession points me to that because, according to the profession of the professor of law, I asked myself some questions first, and, of course, we asked these questions through both the media and the high home of the legislative authorities both to the representatives of the Government and fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliaments. That's why I thought there would be representatives of the Justice Department here today. Because this ministry was one of the holders of the reform in the judiciary and because the representatives of the ministry should also give answers to the questions we have asked and which I will mainly repeat today. I will refer to some attributes of judicial reform and some questions to which we have not received an answer. First of all, I would ask the reformers of the judiciary – which is why they allowed the word'reselection' to appear in the whole process, which is why they allowed the general choice of judicial authorities to include the word'reselection'? Why is this job done so unskilled? Re-election exists when holders of some functions are re-elected to the same functions. Serbia has received a brand-new network of courts, a brand-new system of justice. So it's a general choice, not a re-election. In the press, in the European Commission's statements, everywhere they shouldn't be, the word "reelection" appears. The word was generally adopted and the word is being manipulated in criticising judicial reform. Why did the bearers of this reform not give adequate explanations and good enough evidence and reason for all those who criticized judicial reform to know that it was a general choice rather than a re-election? Even the judicial reformers themselves used the word "reelection". This did not confuse just us in parliament, it confused the press, people in the judiciary, members of the European Commission, members of professional European associations of judges and prosecutors. And then we received criticism on how the judicial reform was done and on why it was done. The logical question is whether the objections have been established. If they are founded, someone should be responsible for why it was done in Serbia. If not established, someone should be held accountable for why we allowed such important EU bodies to have such a distorted attitude. None of these questions were answered. Of course, I think it's just the tip of the iceberg of what's called ignorance in implementing judicial reform. That's one of the reasons, which is the most serious reason why we wanted to see representatives of the Justice Department here today. Unfortunately, they're not here. It's a good thing that, at last, I hope tomorrow, on Vote Day, and the High Council of the Judiciary will be completed, and will no longer decide in the brittle composition. But the real question is why did it happen? It is a criticism not to colleagues of the High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, it is a criticism to fellow MPs of the ruling majority. If the appointment of these bodies had already had to have political interference, then you should have arranged for it to be as it stands in the Constitution and that, in addition to the King of the Constitutional Court, we do not have the High Council of the Judiciary. We didn't get an answer about why it happened like that. I'll recap, of course, some more questions we wanted, and we didn't get an answer. Titles appear in the press to take care first of unselected judges when filling the seats and electing new judges. If it's a general choice, then all candidates are equal. Why take care of those who are not re-elected? If it's not a general choice, then we should say it's a re-election, and then we come into a column to call something that's a general choice by the wrong name. Or maybe it's a concession and washing hands for all the bad things that were done under the grains in judicial reform. We in the LDP had a serious problem, because something that was necessary to support was not happening the way it was supposed to happen. We supported the reform of the judiciary for principled and necessary, not pragmatic reasons. It happened to us that beyond the necessity of political pragmatism. And we didn't get answers to those questions. I wish that during today's debate on these questions we could get answers. Otherwise, as for the proposed candidates for the judge's office, and as for the proposed candidates for the deputy prosecutor's office, neither I personally nor my LDP colleagues can say much, because we don't know anything about these people. We can only say that we believe that the High Council of the Judiciary and the State's Major Prosecutors have done their job in the most honorable way possible and that the National Assembly will choose the best these days. For the rest of my time, I'd leave it for the final word. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43717	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43718	Madam Chairman, gentlemen of the High Council of the Judiciary and Prosecutors, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the reform of the judiciary in Serbia was planned long ago, but unfortunately it was slow-tracked and faced numerous obstacles and was not carried out in time. Why could Serbia's judiciary not be reformed in time? Serbia's judiciary, practically, has been partially thrown into the political arena now. The parties in power are struggling to seize power over the judiciary as one of the branches of government in the Republic of Serbia. The choice of judges and current lustration has marred a well-founded and developed justice system in the state of Serbia for decades. Hence, the coalition policy in Serbia, I fear, will bring down the judicial system to this extent that it will be difficult to regain the reputation and morals of a very important law branch in the government system and the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. You remember well that on December 1st, it was the final legal deadline for the election of judges and public prosecutors with a permanent mandate, in basic, senior and appeals courts, the Casation Court, as well as in the Criminal Court. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was brought in 2006 and after three or four years, the High Council of the judiciary began to act in incomplete composition, so that, according to my information, Mr Nikolic, an additional number, i.e. Another member of the High Council of the Judiciary. For the first time, the council has elected judges in permanent composition, and so far the choice of judges and prosecutors has been conducted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It wasn't a bad choice of judges. I am well aware that there have been fewer influences, fewer pressures and that the MPs, both on the Justice Committee and during the debate at plenary sessions, participated and gave their opinions based on the collected knowledge of the quality and morality of the proposed candidates for judges and prosecutors. What Mr. Rangelovic said earlier, the question was why the question was not properly defined whether it was re-election or whether it was a choice. This has created some confusion in the public, as well as in the candidates themselves. With this choice, I'm afraid, it will be on fire, and in practice it has raised questions as to why about 800 judicial officials have not been elected. First of all, there were judges and prosecutors who acted under the law and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia when they made decisions concerning the law, particularly on information. These judges put the choice in a special position, most of them not elected. When it comes to candidates and the choice of judges, according to some of my findings, although there is no record of how many female candidates have been reported, how many male and how many candidates have been reported, according to some news from the media, 81 candidates have applied to the vacant place. So 17 to one spot where the judge is elected. Of these, 418 former, unselected judges of 830 were unselected at the time, while 935 other candidates were judicial assistants, lawyers, lawyers, employees outside the judiciary. So the competition was huge and it is therefore surprising why the High Council of the Judiciary did not propose to elect another 20 candidates. This was to be done for rational reasons, for the efficiency of the court and the filling of the seats. A new competition for 104 new judges is being announced, as far as I know, the High Council of the Judiciary. I have to express my dissatisfaction that has not been approached in time and more effectively by judicial reform, i.e. the choice of judges and prosecutors, and why it is late, why no competition has been called for these 104 if the seats are vacant. I hope that today we will get an answer from members of the High Council of the judiciary present in the Assembly whether to choose and call a competition for 104 jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, what grade awaits us and what assessment has been given by European representatives on what kind of justice is ours? It's said to be slow, inefficient and corrupt. It is said that Serbia's judiciary remains one dark side of its overall lack of social political system at almost all levels, from the municipal to the Serbian Supreme Court. These are the estimates given before the reorganisation of our judiciary, the courts, including developments in public prosecutors. Despite promises made by Justice Minister Dusan Petrovic and his predecessor, Zoran Stojkovic, that the running fundamental reforms of the judiciary will become more effective, fair and independent, the situation in the judiciary remains unchanged. In all polls, justice research agencies remain at the top of the suspect scale. I generally disagree with these investigations because, if there are corruption and corrupt in the judiciary, it's just individuals. There's evidence for that. In the previous period, we had corruption that was related to the bankruptcy mafia in the privatisation process and in other procedures involving individual judicial officials. The position of the judiciary is still subject to the executive rule, which is specifically reflected in the appointments, resolutions of the Members of the Court, as well as the surbitarity of the application and interpretation of the law. In Serbia's criminal policy, the lack of necessary but professional but not political oversight of judges and the absence of a clear strategy in the fight against crime is evident. That's why most serious media and jurists notice that courts and prosecutions are reportedly unprofessional. These are some opinions given in public through the media by some. Serbia, however, has strong intellectual strength, great potential for selecting judicial holders, both in courts and in prosecutors. Therefore, in the election of judges and prosecutors, we must fight that no one influences their choice except under the Constitution the legitimate authorities, who have the right and have the obligation to make the choice in an adequate, fair and fair manner. Someone can be very smart, and at the same time they're dishonest, unrealistic and unobstructed. You remember what the state of justice has been like in the past few years. From this long-term reform, there has been no even formal reorganisation of courts, let alone concrete developments in their independence, so in the way judges, prosecutors are elected, the establishment of an independent court budget. The SRS court budget has been proposed long ago and the court budget should already be provided and established in law, so that judges and prosecutors can be as independent as possible in terms of the material position of judges and prosecutors. As for the efficiency of the courts, you remember that in November 2007, 400 courts across Serbia were suspended. This has shown that there is a lack of motivation to work because of very low earnings. And we want our judiciary, in the end, to compare and even with the judiciary and the judicial institutions in the parallel countries of the European Union and other states. When it comes to the work of courts, a large number of cases have been brought before the Court in Strasbourg. Only in 2008 were 1,200 cases and they mainly refer to the achievement of human rights, and above all from the EU, the Council of Europe and the Council of Ministers indicate that human rights have been violated and violated and that a huge number of cases are expected from Serbia, which is all the reason that Serbia's judicial authorities have done little work. The judicial authority must belong to the courts, as an independent state body. The court's power must be performed independently. The independence of the court must mean such a position as that of the institution and individuals exercising judicial authority to ensure that they decide independently from other authorities on all legal disputes within their jurisdiction. This means that independence of the court exists only when neither individual nor the Supreme Authority of the State can oblige the court to judge a dispute or to apply the general norm to a specific living situation. Not only does the independence of the courts stem from the principle of constitutionality and legality, but that principle cannot be ensured without such independence of the court's activities, strictly based on constitutionality and legality. The courts, therefore, judge by the Constitution, the law and other general regulations. So much for that. Serbia today has a great intellectual strength, I repeat -- Serbian civilians and professional legal holders, who must be presented and defended by any attempt to amend or supplement any law that would harm citizens' rights and make it difficult for judicial authorities to work. What is the objective of the judicial authorities? What does the state need to look for and what do the citizens want? Citizens want, above all, the efficiency of the courts. It's about selecting these new judges. But they can't change the situation, they can only help, and those who are existing, they have to roll up their sleeves and do their job. The big problem is that after the previous election, a case of inefficiency appeared. The cases are being transferred from one small court to another court. New judges are in charge. The election of judges from the smaller courts in several courts ran somewhere so you had the case that in one district court nine judges, almost all, were not elected, but that's why only the President of the Court and him were elected. He went to the high court. Now those judges who came from smaller courts, especially former municipalities, in which there were five-six-seven-seven judges, who worked with the moss on cases which primarily referred to petty thefts, insults, slanders, minor injuries, bicycle thefts, some pickpockets and forest thefts, come to several courts to judge the murders and other most serious crimes for which the prison sentence is predicted for up to 40 years. Gentlemen of the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, it is up to you (President: twenty minutes). ) to assess whether this reform has really been effective so far and what needs to be done further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43719	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted by the LDP parliamentary group, the DSS parliamentary group and the SRS parliamentary group. We are moving to the course of a session in which, according to the order of the MPs and according to the application for a word in a joint single search on the motions for decisions to elect judges and deputy public prosecutors, MPs take part. The first to be declared is the folk MP Judita Popovic, followed by National MP Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43720	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Honorable representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to ask you a question at the beginning. Do not realize that this question is malignuous, ironic, or that it has some evil intentions. That is, what are the other judges, or candidates, if they are the best? Why am I asking this question? For the following reasons. By reading the explanations of these proposals, each can find concrete biographical data, place and date of birth, when and where college, years of study, etc. At the end of each of these arguments is one general phrase, that each of these candidates meets the conditions regarding expertise, skills and dignity. It's okay. All these candidates are both professional and qualified and worthy. But what is it that qualified these particular people to be proposed by the High Council of the Judiciary? We of the LDP really have nothing against any of these candidates who have been proposed to the judges' offices or the deputy prosecutor's office. There's no reason why we don't know these people. From this data presented to us in writing, we really can't say anything good or bad about these people. We can only accept and support, and we can not support the proposed candidates. What does that say about the High Court Council, which had to propose these candidates in a much more serious way? It says that, first of all, there was no transparency in proposing these candidates. Transparency is a serious factor, a serious quality that is needed to exist in such a serious reform as judicial reform. It is precisely the lack of this transparency that has significantly compromised and threatened the entire reform of the judiciary. Since the beginning, the LDP has supported judicial reform. We have indeed argued that Serbia as a state needs to fully reform the judiciary, both courts and prosecutors. And what happens at the first next step, after the general election of judges, when the election of about 25 judges and 18 deputy prosecutors is proposed? We're going to get this kind of ratty data for these candidates. On my question to the Justice Committee that actually a ranking of candidates for Judges and Prosecutors was made, I received an answer – yes, there are certain criteria, as regards the average score during the study, the length of the duration of the study and the like, and that based on some of the exact data, a ranking list was made. If the rankings were based on this data, then why was the problem with these rankings being applied, to be an integral part of this assembly material, if the Justice Committee had already discussed these candidates, and the Assembly had put the debate on the proposed candidates on the agenda? After all, it is the Assembly that will decide on these candidates, and indeed there is no valid information on why these individuals who are the most qualified and best for these future functions. Why does it matter? It is important because people who are now elected, however, are people who will be elected for the first time in three years for these functions, but in any case, since this is about relatively young people, candidates for judges in prosecutors, they will be the backbone of Serbia's future judiciary. If they are chosen in such a non-transparent way, if they are allowed to appear even if there is little doubt as to how these people are proposed, it already significantly compromises the whole choice of judges and prosecutors. That's inadmissible. It's diletantism. That's not how you do it. If there is indeed a serious intention to reform the judiciary, then, above all, it must be done transparently, that there is no doubt that any relatives, godfather or political ties were crucial that these candidates, 25 seats of the judges and 18 seats of the prosecutors, were proposed. You can't let that happen anymore. It is no longer possible to allow any doubt because, as well as we from the LDP have been well-intentioned in our criticisms, I think we face daily the fact that there is a serious obstruction regarding the overall reform of the judiciary, and it seems to me that both the High Council of the judiciary and the competent ministry are and that they have contributed to such an opinion being overwhelming in the public. So, rank-list, transparency. Because, no matter how honest you work, no matter how honest those people rank, no matter how many of them are the best candidates, that doesn't mean there can be no doubt if we haven't seen those ranking lists, if we haven't finished, we're fully aware of why these people are candidates. Because being chosen in such a non-transparent way does not mean that their work will be non-transparent. Moreover, and how they will be able to see, see and feel both their expertise and their dignity and competence, and how everything that is negative and everything that actually says that maybe some of them didn't deserve to be elected judges or prosecutors. At the Justice Committee, we also discussed that the criteria are not only for the average grades at the university and the length of the study, but also for some other criteria, which are and how important for whether a candidate will receive priority or advantage. We don't even have those criteria here marked in this material that we got. We are distracted that, let's say, one of the candidates, although he studied for 14 years, received a positive rating and is listed as a choice of judges. The reason is that it is a person who has studied for a reasonable reason for 14 years and that, simply, all other qualities are such that they put the candidate in a priority position. For these reasons, I am also telling you that transparency is very important if we are doing judicial reform, if we are talking about justice, because it is the judges and prosecutors who are facing the whole society in the expectation that they are doing their work primarily professionally and dignifiedly and that this reform of the judiciary is being implemented until the end without being finished halfway along the way, and compromised. I would add that the LDP will support the choice of judges and prosecutors. We feel that it really is necessary to choose new people, and these proposals show that there are a lot of new and young people, because it is time for things to really move from the dead spot at which Serbia's judiciary is currently located.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43721	Ten minutes and 50 seconds have been used by the MP's group. The word has a folk MP, Milica Radovic, and after that, MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43722	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, the respected representatives of the State Council of Prosecutors, that the Serbian judiciary has truly and properly begun to reform itself, we would today be able to discuss the choice of these new judges in the context of continuing the reform of the judiciary. But since we know that there have been many shortcomings on this road and in that field, I simply am not able to talk positively about judicial reform in Serbia. Here, in my discussion, I will focus more on the work of that High Council of Justice authority, which is key to the overall re-election process and the choice of judges themselves. I'm not going to get into the evaluations of candidates who are proposed today to choose for the first time as judges because really, based on what we've got in the material itself, we can't even conclude anything. I believe that for the quality of the work of the judiciary, the crucial role of the body that proposed them is, and therefore my discussion will be focused on that. Last week we discussed the election of the last member of the First Council of the Judicial Council of the Law School and I must say that we have not yet voted on this proposal (it is a vote, as far as I know, scheduled for tomorrow), so that the High Council of the Judiciary and this formal proposal has addressed and formed a completely incomplete assembly. I would like to remind you that the High Council of the judiciary in incompletely convened decision on the number of judges required without some particularly clear criteria, that it has made a decision and implemented the overall re-election procedure. So, it's about decisions that are very controversial, but unfortunately crucial to the Serbian judiciary and that have kind of routed the whole process and the way of the Serbian judiciary. This was supposed to be a reformed "road" and a path to reforming the judiciary itself, and did it, as such, give the expected results? Of course not. The situation in the judiciary today, if not the same, then worse than the time when the whole "judgment reform" procedure began. It is so bad that even the European Commission had to reach out and call on the Serbian summit on that occasion to review the whole re-election process both judges and prosecutors themselves. The European Commission's report states that there are huge shortcomings and shortcomings in the re-election process, which are primarily seen in both the composition and independence of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, in the application of objective criteria, the transparency of the procedure itself and its reliability. The report, if Serbia continues to head towards the EU, should be a turning point for reform of the Serbian judiciary. The question arises whether it was the basis for this report to be so negative. I think it's the work of the High Council of the Judiciary and how it showed that there's material for a report like this. How else, if not the very unconsciousness of the proceedings, explain that among the re-elected judges, there was a judge who had died earlier, how do you explain the fact that the two judges at the same time found themselves elected in two different places, how do you explain the fact that one person at the same time was chosen for both the judge and the deputy prosecutor? Do I have to add that at least two members of the High Council of Justice have found themselves in a direct conflict of interest? Do I need to talk about the fact that one was in a direct conflict of interest because he participated in the election and promotion of his son to a higher court instance and the other because he participated in his wife's election as judge? Is it necessary to add that the High Council of the Judiciary of its decision on re-election and so on, not to say resolution, did not bring and deliver to the judges themselves and that they do not know the reasons why they lost their jobs today? I will note that today there are 800 constitutional appeals before the Constitutional Court of Justice, which have not yet been decided. I ask the question to the President of the High Council of the judiciary – is that a good message that we send both to the local public and to the international community when it comes to reforming the Serbian judiciary itself? The High Council of the judiciary is also obliged to answer the question – is it true and, if so, how is it possible to find among the elected judges those judges who participated in the fake election results in 1996-1997? How is it possible for the elected judges to find two judges of municipal courts who were elected for two counts of senior, a court of appeal, and that they were previously proposed to the National Assembly for discharge because of unconscious and unprofessional work? These are the questions we always ask the Justice Department. We never got an answer until now. I hope the situation is different now, because there is still a representative of the High Council of the Judiciary. I have nothing to add about the State Council of Prosecutors, because I believe that the situation is completely different. They have heard to respect the criticism of the professional public and their actions are completely different. In the end, let me just say about the choice of these candidates we're discussing today. I did not enter them, into their biography, their expertise, because I felt it was much more important to say more about the body that proposed them, and based on my discussion, it is quite clear that we, as a representative group of DSS, are expressing our doubts about the correctness of any proposal coming from the High Council of the judiciary, including this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43723	Seven minutes and 50 seconds have been used by the MP's group. The People's MP Srdjan Spasojevic has the word, followed by MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43724	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, the respected representatives of the High Council, the respected citizens of Serbia, are ahead of us with a decision on the election of judges to a three-year term in courts of general and special jurisdiction, we have certain biographies, names, so to speak, and as a New Serbia MP, I absolutely do not want to talk about any of this biography. They're young people who start their own business. I wish in advance, since they will surely be chosen, to congratulate them and to wish them a successful judicial career. Of course, they will certainly and later continue to do this work. What can be seen is that a large number are received from the area of the Court of Appeal in Nis. Whether it's all by accident or not, that's one thing, but the needs of these courts require it. I have no idea, but obviously in this first election, there will probably be other choices, there are probably some priorities, which, in any case, can't be good. But what is it, it's here. Anything we can say, and my colleague Radovic, before me, said that we chose, practically, the last member of the High Council a few days ago. We've all declared here that it's a very high-quality man. That's not at all controversial. It is a dispute over why the High Council has not been complete since the beginning, so when it decided on the large number of judicial and prosecutorial functions, etc., which had a choice before us from 1,500 performers of judicial functions. We also know that even the state's major prosecutor wasn't complete. There have been a lot of problems with the election of members of the Bar Association, Mr. lawyer Miroslav Bojic, who has been proposed twice by the Serbian Bar Association and has not passed. What can we begin to conclude? That some of the problems that are happening are that the judiciary is reformed, but it seems to me, reformed only in reducing the number of judicial officials, and we currently have a problem with what with the unselected judges who haven't been to the competition. So, we have before us suggestions that these unselected legal holders continue to receive compensation for six months or for a time provided by law, as six months passed July 1st. Here I want to ask you a question on what legal basis, by which law, when we know that the appointed and elected or appointed persons have the opportunity to receive compensation for six months, and that they can extend that period for one year only those people who retire can, by law, retire. Is it, in practice, a confession that there were certain problems in the election, so it comes out to meet these people? I don't mind having these people meet, only it would probably be better if that choice were to move legally for a while, to do it a little bit with natural selection, so many people would slowly retire, because it's such a turn, from 800 to 1,000 people at one point, a hard blow to the judiciary. The arguments for this are the congestion of the court's cases. We had the usual practice that the cases in the litigation procedure were scheduled month after month, and now three or four months are not scheduled. In such an ambience, everyone suffers. First of all, judges who do their job and have tremendous pressure from lawyers, from parties who are rightly dissatisfied with why they have been stalling procedures for so long. Of course, there are also major problems with party-representing lawyers, since the right required by the party in a procedure is extremely difficult to achieve, and when it comes to judicial judgment, problems begin. I hope that soon the law on the executive procedure will come before this congregation, and I hope that it will regulate something. Because it is currently in the King's 5,000 executive judgments and 20,000 cases, that only two judges are working on these cases and these colleagues are rightly buried so much that I don't know how they're going to get out of trouble. It's a big problem. I was also a few days ago, the minister of justice, when she was here, said that, given our incomes, the revenues of Serbian citizens, court fees are huge. We raised them 50% last year and I am right to ask the question – what is it that, in this period, when the delay in increasing the income of Serbian citizens, so expensive in this country, not even energy, other than oil, has been accumulated, so suddenly to raise the court fee? We have a problem not only with the charges for the lawsuit, but also with the verdict, but also with the execution, so when you have such a slow procedure, then there's a total collapse and then there's a huge dissatisfaction of those people who are being tried, the litigation parties. Everyone is in trouble -- both judges, lawyers and parties, and above all Serbian citizens. It's a problem that needs to be solved. Two or three weeks ago, I had a constructive proposal, of course, for those who work on the bill, to charge all fees at the end, when the verdict is carried out, and the fees for the lawsuit and the fees for the verdict and the charges for the execution. I think my colleagues from certain positional parties have also supported me and I think the minister of justice has responded positively to the case. It'll make someone do their job, and if someone doesn't do their job, let them be sanctioned. Because the state can't charge everything, and when the case goes to execution, there's a point, that the case is being dragged through for years, that certain persons become insolvent, and that no executive procedure can be such that, practically, the executive trustee is being punished and the executive debtor is being protected until the end. As for these people who will be chosen, once again I want them to be worthy of the functions they will perform. I want them to be the peri-curricular of the Serbian judiciary in due course. I have no doubt about the quality of these people at all, and I believe that my colleague Bosko Ristic must have had candidates before him who, given his profession, he knows etc., and that he can certainly help too. So, once again, good luck to the new legal holders.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43725	Eight minutes and 15 seconds of MP time have been used. The People's MP Zoran Krasic has the word, and after him is the folk MP Vesna Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43726	Mrs. Komic, I'm sorry, how much time do we have? (President: The total time of the SRS is 67.12 minutes. Mashala, nice. At first, I just have to remind Mrs Comic of everything we have done when it comes to this transformation or the alignment of the work and organisation of our courts and prosecutors with the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. At the end of 2008, we made very reasoned criticisms about everything that is done in the High Council of the judiciary and this prosecution council. Remember, it was in that building. Of course, we didn't expect most of them to be favored, that it would come to their brain, start thinking about it, but after a few months, there was a sharp slap from those abroad that were following you. I don't want to repeat that argument now, because they repeated what we talked about, so you don't realize now that we're in a coalition. God forbid we're in a coalition with them. So I'm gonna build a fence right now. Very often there is this coincidence of some attitudes, but it is only because of the strength of our arguments, not because we share the same values and the same opinion. So when they attack someone, I simply come to defend this man, because I know much better what the European Commission is, what the EU is and how they function and think. However, I must, because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, point to this situation in our judiciary. There's been some transformation, and the effects almost a year later are pretty negative. Who says your results are negative? Official statistics say citizens who address courts to protect their rights and achieve some of their interests, say lawyers (both those who have passed that call for re-election and those who have not), and also comment in a similar way on those from the prosecutor's office. However, when it comes to the prosecution, it should always be accepted with the reserve, since the hierarchy there has always been present. Here, Mr. Ostojic is here. You remember, Mr. Ristic, in 2003, when you explicitly removed from the post of President of the Supreme Court Leposav Karamarkovic and Srdjan or Sinisha, the republican public prosecutor. Because of Mr. Ostojić, we had to change the law in that building to choose him as a republican public prosecutor. This is the DOS and DS's relationship to the regulations, according to the functioning of the government. You remember, I suppose, Sonja Brkic came to the post of Serbian Supreme Court President, Mr Ostojic was elected a republican public prosecutor although he did not meet the conditions, so we had to amend the law. So, the Democratic Party is, how do I tell you, a criterion. It rains, as when a cantar is brought to the market, so it must be given that seal, when it is stamped, it is true that it is a kilo. That's how DS works. I hope to remind you more of what happened in 2003, 2004, etc., but now let's get back to this. So the Constitution said... And I voted for the Constitution, right away, you know, unlike the others, who don't. There are some things I don't like, I never liked them, but I voted, I support. There's no problem, I'm not arguing anything. But according to the Constitution, and according to this particular article that you listed with judges and prosecutors, the National Assembly is practically deciding on trainees, people who are first elected as judges and deputy prosecutors, and these professional authorities, according to the Constitution, decide on something that is later the continuity of that judicial function. I do not argue that it was a good desire to regulate it in this way, that the profession comes first. However, I see a huge mistake has been made. And I have the right to comment on that, especially since it's not forbidden to criticise any solutions. When I criticise it, I always criticize it with the intention of looking for better solutions. Serbian citizens would have to know that, no matter what they think, under the influence of journalists and media on the National Assembly, but it is the only body with legitimacy. From the legitimacy of the National Assembly, all others draw and legitimacy and legality. There are both judges and prosecutors, and there are some other state authorities in all branches of government. The State primarily provides its continuity through the National Assembly and the elections held within specific time limits. You know, we're choosing practically interns now. In your biography you have proposed candidates of 42 and 46 years (as summer as well as probably someone older). So they're closer to retirement than some professional career. Now, you see, that's what the National Assembly is considering, and someone at the age of 32 is constantly considering a judicial and prosecutorial circle. Now let me focus your attention on some of the things that are interesting, how it is described that the conditions are fulfilled by law. Here, I'll take an example with the deputy attorney general, and it's the same for the judges. He says, "Very successful student, continued to perfect and participate in numerous seminars." Participation in a number of seminars. As far as I'm concerned, when a college graduate goes to seminars every year, it means he was a bad student not only, but also a bad student. He's got to keep renewing his knowledge. A normal man finishes school, reads, educates himself, and these guys have to go to seminars. Whether they are touristic or professional, it doesn't matter, but they launder money from the Kopalnik, via Zlatibor and some spas, to Budva. She says, "In order to improve professionally, she attended seminars organised by the Justice Centre, the Academy of European Law, the Ministry of Justice and showed that she is responsible and is doing quality work." Where did you find this, please? I'm not voting for this one for a living head. The Academy of European Rights – does this right even exist? There's Alexandra Jerkov, she's a master of European science, that's what it says on the website. For one candidate, you say, "He showed a high degree of expertise, ambition, as well as interest in further training, precision, literacy of the decisions he worked on." The literacy of the decisions he worked on – means stuck, dot, interaction... He knows spelling and grammar, everything's fine. For the next candidate, you say, "Follow the case law and use legal terminology." Imagine a miracle, he's following court practice. That's the one we need in the National Assembly, an expert in legal terminology. That must be suggested here as deputy secretary general. For the next candidate, you wrote: ''In the opinion that has been obtained from the Chamber of Lawyers of Chačka, it is pointed out that this is about a candidate who meets the conditions... '"What did you establish? You asked your colleagues from the bar. Well, of course it suits them. Now a 42-year-old candidate. You say, "He is consciously involved in the process of adopting new knowledge and applying new powers, accepting professional training and training." Consciousness in the process of adopting new knowledge – who writes this, my people? And, imagine, accepts professional training and training. So some resist, this one doesn't resist, this one agrees. And, since she's in, she's gone. Sweets. Good for us. Next candidate. Bol, it's your category there, I see it's Nis. He says, "The session of all judges has unanimously held that the candidate meets all the criteria." Bigger prosecutors? Well, you're not needed. All the judges said they met the conditions. "It shows the willingness to move forward, to perfect and train professionally." Imagine, it shows a willingness to move forward. So, you from the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, since this is a candidate for the Appellate, you're in awe. She's progressing, more like the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office. He's professionally perfected and trained, imagine. It's said of the next candidate, "He's maximumly up-to-date and he's trying." So you have some out there who don't try. Further: "She is ready to be trained and trained professionally, participated in numerous seminars and published professional papers in the prosecution's newsletters." And for this one of our lovers, they said, "It's about a reliable candidate." Who do you insult with these things that you do? I wasn't deliberately talking about which candidates were involved, for one simple reason, which in this group you suggested was the first time you chose for judges there were those who had been judges for many, many years for offenses. You know for a fact that because of this transformation, practically all the judges are going to this choice. There are people with experience and nine, 12 and over. Unless they have been the subject of interest and resolution so far, if someone for 12 years could have been a judge of offense and made so many hundreds of solutions and punished people and determined their criminal responsibility, likely to meet these laws and the Constitution prescribed conditions for choosing these functions. But you can see for yourself, someone in Serbia is trying to caricate something that exists in the EU, and that there is a country there for 150 years and is the result of their traditions and their practices, that does not mean that in Serbia it should rewrite it and that it will produce the same results as there. You're simply trying to imitate something. If he can go to France, why can't he go to Serbia? If he can in Germany and Italy, why not Serbia? You know, there's something out there that may not always be in the law, but it exists as a standard. It's like a standard that's meant to be, and there's no need to be in any regulation. Unfortunately, in Serbia, until we rush into this order that suits us, not so interesting, but from the point of view of the system of values, that every morning, when he wakes up, he knows what system of values is in force in Serbia (in the hallway of the building, in the elevator, in the street, in the workplace, in any place), when it is in our midst of the accepted system of values, then we can do something like something. You didn't do anything exactly on that system of values. You've done something that's armor, which is form, but that form doesn't satisfy the essence. And citizens report to courts because of the essence, not the form. You have gone so far as to interpret even the court's fee as a major income from the state, and that was something just to record that a lawsuit or an address to the court was a serious act of an individual. No, that's your source of income. Of course, in that transformation, we have a situation today that Zagorka Dolovac is acting as a republican public prosecutor. There is Slobodan Radovanović still a god and a beating, which is probably familiar to you. It's a similar situation in the Supreme Cassation Court. And there are gray eminences, based on the strategy of reforming our judiciary and a series of strategies, and these strategies include what you call an English word, and in our language is interpreted as observation. You're the subject of observation, monitoring. So, the one that's given money for transformation from America, and that's probably 100 million euros, it's a little built-in, but it's following that reform to give that effect that they've drawn, not that you want. You might want well, but it can't work out. Further to what we did yesterday, where we demonstrated a high degree of unity in defending the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia on every square centimetre of our territory, where are these courts and judicial authorities in Kosovo and Metohija? Where are they? How do you defend these territories in Kosovo and Metohija where Serbs represent most of the abuses of the judicial and other bodies of the self-proclaimed false state of Kosovo? Just to remind you, since you woke up now, yesterday you were extremely good, I commend you, especially when you were affirmatively talking about point one of the proposed decisions, and last night I informed you that by adopting the amendments, Jeremy deleted point 1, so you were talking for free. Everything you've been saying doesn't work. I'm not the one who put you in this situation. You're the one who got yourself into this situation. You weren't informed in time. This unintelligence is traditional, as syndrome spreads through this building. What happened to those institutions in Kosovo and Metohija? In the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, when the regulations are passed, for each regulation, the one proposing must guarantee that the regulation will apply to the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. We don't have that. You said the territory of Kosovo and Metohija was temporarily occupied. Then you called Eulex at the end of 2008. It's a mission to establish the rule of law in KIM territory. Not the rule of Serbian and Serbian law and the Constitution, but the transitional institutions, or independent Kosovo. They have been preparing for years in both Croatia and Slovenia. And they show a tendency to go to seminars, to train, to perfect themselves, to receive new knowledge, to understand European law. They don't differ there from these. You see, they arrested their governor, false states and their fake central banks. He was hooking up with some insurance companies. Then the Minister of Telecommunications, in turn. They're demonstrating something that's impossible to demonstrate here. This is where the state says -- a billion and 350 million were washed away, and those in the prosecution don't read the paper and don't read the official statements of the MUP, etc. So, who'd you bring in? How could a billion and 350 million wash with the alleged Charicians and then be a turkey picky? Who was he in the coalition with? You have a special agency to prevent money laundering, you have this BIA. What's that BIA doing? The way he is, no one needs him. Or they've got you all over the place. There used to be a second municipal public prosecutor's office in Belgrade, only BIA terra and keeps everything under control. Why? Because it's a local authority for the government and all the authorities in Second. Don't ask us to agree on these tours of yours, for these seminars of yours, for the adoption of new knowledge. What new knowledge of our regulations? We need the knowledge of our regulations, not of something else. If you're already talking about these European and world regulations, why haven't you better prepared this expert team representing the Republic of Serbia? Why didn't you do it a little better? The whole nation laughed last night when they heard who was a member of the legal team. Gašo Knezevic, so he applied the draft law at the Faculty of Law, which has not yet been adopted. Soldier Dimitrievich. You're still missing Sonja Pearl. Who's going to seriously interpret what you're doing? It's only interpreted as fog. Something that is a real defeat, you represent as a great success. All right, look forward to your success. But for what reason? What is the vision for the people and the state of it? What's the use of what you're doing? Couldn't you have found a nicer word for these candidates, but – shows literacy, tries? Come on, the guy who's trying, he turned out to be a man. If she was a woman, we could think of anything. What are you people doing, aman? The state is a serious matter. Thank you, Mrs. Comic, for not giving me a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43727	21 minutes and five seconds of MP time have been used. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43728	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Representatives of the State Council of Prosecutors and the High Council of the judiciary, and the charges against the parties and this party is not a topic and I do not want to deal with it. What's important for us here is that we have mandated proposings and that, according to this, it is the author who determines the criteria, based on these benchmarks, and then delivers them to the Assembly, who only chooses candidates based on these proposals. So, in that sense, I don't think there are any objections that we're not conducting a procedure here. We're not even in charge of running the entire running for candidate, because there are competent institutions doing this. Our theme here today is the selection of candidates who have been proposed by the authorised institutions. Also, this is where the word "reelection" was mentioned. The reform of the judicial system does not know the re-election. So it's about choice. The procedure itself is different, therefore there is no justification for those who have not been chosen, that is, no one has been suspended or resolved. So here was the procedure they were taking, and based on this procedure were elected holders of judicial and prosecutorial functions. Who was Saric in power with? I just want to tell you that in 2003, Saric doesn't exist. From 2004 to 2000, see who was in power, you may find an answer there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43729	Right on line, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43730	I don't know, Mrs. Comic, which is the basis of the replica. As far as I can tell, all this Mrs. Hope said refers to some who spoke before me. I didn't talk about these things. In that sense, I don't understand, this could have been said in her discussion, as a representative of the parliamentary group. That was your standard so far. But when Mrs. Hope called me because she gave me the line, I have to remind her. Well, you guys make a deal with DOS. So, everyone from October 5th to the day you were in power, sit tight and agree – who knows Sarić, who doesn't know him, who took part in "Sablja", who didn't participate, where Janjušević and Kolesar are. I have names, I have everything. I've got press-clipping for everyone, don't worry. I want to help you. Just to remind you, Mrs. Kolundjia, the transformation, the reform, whatever you call what happens to the judiciary, happens in the tenth year the DOS came to power (no matter what the aggregate state), when absolute obsolescence occurs for most of the crimes that have caused some people. Everybody knows that. That's what sparrows know. Everyone in court knows that. As it is known, who dictates judgments in the Special Court, in some other courts. I used to tell you about that Lazar, so I was talking about some other people who control everything that's going on. Everything you said, Bosko Ristic told you. But that applies to Milica's discussion, not mine. I didn't tell you about re-election. I know what the aim of this reform and this action is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I wasn't talking to you either. I spoke to the citizens of Serbia, to better understand you, if it weren't for the Republic of Serbia in the first place, they were not citizens of Serbia, but allegedly some act, and yesterday it was 'I'm Kalimer'.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43731	National MP Nada Kolundžija and Bosko Ristić, right on the line. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43732	We've got nothing to deal with. What we do is create institutions that will be able to deal with organised crime, corruption and every type of crime. And that's exactly what we're working on. What we are doing today is continuing this process and I believe that the results of this process will be successful and that then all those who are trying to represent this effort to reform a system that is not working... Could it have been done before? Maybe. The Democratic Party is not in power from 2004 to 2008. From the moment we came in our position to make a decision, we have decided that by reforming this system, we will allow the state to fight every form of crime. It doesn't surprise me when someone makes fun of the fact that there's someone who wants a permanent education, because someone who mocks intimacy with hygiene and the need to bathe, they probably mock themselves and the need to be educated throughout their lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43733	National MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43734	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to say that we do not have a debate on the subject, and that is the choice of candidates who are first elected as holders of judicial functions. It is obvious that there is no argument in the debate that would challenge the quality of proposals of authorised applicants, because we have not heard a challenge for any candidate. This means that both the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Major Prosecutors have done their job in quality and have proposed candidates who will be a good humane basis and good human resources to strengthen the very structure of the judiciary. The reform of the judiciary did not begin with the general election of judges and prosecutors, nor will it be ended with these personal proposals. I think this is where the term "reelection" comes from certain structures that want to obstruct the judicial reform. The judicial reform is referred to by graduate lawyers, people with experience, so that they know that this is a general choice, which has been applied for by candidates and by the ranks of prosecutors and judges, but also by the ranks of those graduate lawyers who meet the legal requirements, and who come out of law enforcement. I think it's an ominous use of words, which doesn't indicate the true state of affairs. Otherwise, there was also a question here about why the Ministry of Justice now allows an extension of the material compensation for those who filed complaints to the Constitutional Court. Since the legal framework does not provide for two-stageness in the first or general election, and according to the pilot decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, both respected by the High Council of the judiciary and the State Greater Prosecutors, the executive authority found the possibility that the procedure would not be considered finalised for those candidates who declared that remedy until the legal fate of the remedy ended. I think the inadmissible and the objections that the High Council of the Judiciary and the State's Major Prosecutors are not legitimate because they are not fully filled in in. The argument is very reasonable, and that is to fill that place with the National Assembly, on the proposal of an authorised promoter. A member of the High Council of the Prosecution Court is not elected because three times the proposed candidate has not passed through this assembly. This cannot be blamed and responsible by the High Council of the Judiciary. That's for all the lawyers, and for the citizens, it's clear. Also, law enforcement has no candidate for the State's Major Prosecutors because the lawyer's candidate did not pass the Assembly on two occasions. Now the lawyer doesn't propose a candidate again, so the State's Chief Prosecutors can't bear the consequences of the failure of what's not in his jurisdiction and his power. (President: three minutes. Thank you. I'll finish with another sentence. In its pilot decision, the Constitutional Court took the view that the composition of the State Council of Prosecutors and the High Council of the judiciary is such as to ensure the legality of the decisions taken, and that legitimacy is not questioned by the lack of a member, but that it would be desirable for that member to be elected as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43735	Thank you. National MP Milica Radovic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43736	I recognized myself in Mr. Ristic's discussion, because he mentioned the term "reelection", which I have purposely and clearly used here, and I am absolutely on the point that he is very well-implemented. And I recognized myself primarily in that sentence when he said he came from structures that wanted to obstruct the work of the judiciary. I just want to answer him that there is no one who will obstruct more what is today called judicial reform than those who participate, and here I primarily think of a member of the High Council of Justice as acting, who comes from the post of chairman of the Justice Committee. Furthermore, this is where "argumented reasoning" is sought, which is why the judges did not receive written correction of the decision itself whether they were re-elected or not. Mr. Ristic, you can only argue with such a right to defend. That doesn't know any legal science. You know very well that the representatives of the High Council of the judiciary themselves were obliged to deliver to each judge a reasoned verdict in which they will be clearly explained what reasons they are qualified to be no longer at the workplace. That's basic law. First of all, by such an argument you simply take away from them the fundamental right, which is the right to a legal remedy. The second thing is that, in the end, you have been warned by the European Commission itself, and I think it is already being handled. It's actually the best argument I'm right.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43737	National MP Bosko Ristic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43738	As chairman of the Justice Committee and a member of the High Council by office, as I am now so called, I would like to say that my colleague is wrong because the legal framework does not allow the possibility to declare a legal remedy against a constitutional decision which only determines the termination of the judicial duty of those who are not elected during the general elections because the law itself says that on 31 December it ceases to be possible for all legal holders of the judicial functions of that function, when they take office on 1 January of those elected to take office. That makes one difference. If you look at the legal solution, you will see that the law does not oblige either the High Council of the Judiciary or the State's Chief Prosecutors to give reasons for the decision on non-election. But also by respecting the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which gives suggestions to one and another independent state authority to carry out new elections and to review the candidates' candidates who have applied for the general election before, we have approached the realisation and suggestion of the Constitutional Court of Serbia and thus we act to provide all standards, transparency and talks with candidates who have not passed the general choice. I think the High Council of the Judiciary and the State's Chief Prosecutors have done their job in accordance with the Constitution and the law. The fact that the legal framework is not defined, it cannot be burdened by these two independent state bodies and otherwise is the European Commission’s observation that the problem lies in an incomplete legal framework. These two state authorities have an obligation to apply the law and the Constitution, they did. And today, in decisions made by these state authorities, there is no lesson about the legal remedy because this is not a solution. Those holders of judicial functions which have been elected since 1 January 2010 in a procedure where their disciplinary or other liability is determined, if they remain without that function, shall be entitled to appeal both for second-degree proceedings and for reasons of initiation or for a decision to terminate that function. Therefore, this is about one discontinuity, which was confirmed by the Constitutional Court in its decision from exactly one year ago, where he found that the general choice had a basis in the new constitution, that the new Constitution was sufficient legal basis to join the general election. It was only after the Constitutional Court's decision that the High Judicial Council took the general election procedure and it carried out the procedure until the end, in accordance with the Constitution and the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43739	National MP Milica Radovic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43740	Mr. Ristic, I appreciate your efforts to get out of this complicated situation, but unfortunately, the arguments are not on your side. I think that even the simplest decision of the court contains legal instruction, so it was quite appropriate that the decision that the judges were no longer chosen to carry out that duty contains such legal instruction. That is what you have simply been warned by the European Commission. I think you've kind of figured it out, because from what I understand, it's already been handled. I don't see why you're defending non-arguments with what's absolutely indefensible in this case, which is that this re-election was conducted without any criteria, that the entire reform of the judiciary wasn't properly designed and that the own analysis of the existing situation in the judiciary, as something that should have preceded the judicial reform itself, has not been carried out either.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43741	This circle of replicas is closed. National MP Miroslav Petkovic has a word, followed by MP Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43742	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, I must say at the beginning that I don't quite understand how someone forgets so quickly when they come to power, so it mixes the years, but it's probably an internal feeling. If someone believes that he was not in power in 2007, although he had most of the ministers in the Serbian government, that's his problem. Since we are talking about the last two years, in those two years, I can say that they are extremely difficult, sad and lost to Serbia, in every sense. It was best shown by yesterday's debate in the Serbian parliament, when, following a difficult decision by the International Court of Justice, a decision was adopted in our parliament that would nail Serbia and KIM into the concrete of New York already in the fall of the UN General Assembly, but the people who applauded last night, after the adoption of this decision, obviously did not understand it. But this government has destroyed the economy, culture, defense, health care, agriculture, media, courts, destroyed the will for everything in this country. For two years, the government has been selling to the people of the flossula that the EU has no alternative, and judicial reform is the best example of how these very European values are being violated. In the previous period, the National Assembly had far more important topics than judicial reform than gay parades and ambrosias, beer and wine laws, and the Holy God knows what else. You have barely completed the Constitutional Court of Serbia, tomorrow we will have a complete composition of the Supreme Council of the Judiciary, and, as we have heard, on a proposal for the State Major Prosecutors will still wait because there was not enough majority to choose a proposal from the Bar Association. About the presidents of the court not to talk. If I am not mistaken, the deadline was still in March, it is now the end of July, and the Assembly will probably not be in September. But relax, just six months up and down, it's no big deal. Is Serbia's judiciary one of the most important issues? Of course it is. It's an important question, but not the past, but the future, as well as KIM. Gentlemen of power, gentlemen of the Supreme Judiciary Council, are you aware of what we are protecting by protecting independent justice in Serbia? Or do some lasting and generally accepted values not matter to you at all and do only some passing things? No, I don't. This government has been killed by fear of jeopardising European integration if it discusses KIM and will not compromise European integration if such a choice (or re-election is made, call it whatever you want) in Serbia's judiciary. I don't know if anyone at the Ministry of Justice or the Ministry of Finance has done an analysis of how much it costs the citizens and how it affects the budget of the Republic of Serbia all of this is about paying these fees after six months. Since you started reforming the judiciary, you have gone to the wall on which we have repeatedly warned you, and we have not wanted to go to that wall since the adoption of the Law on the High Council of the Judiciary and all those proposals that you have put before the Assembly. Now you're in a position to try to break that wall with your head. You're breaking yours, don't ask us for support to put our heads in front of that wall. As my colleague Radovic said, since we do not know anything about new candidates for judges and prosecutors, that is, the deputy prosecutors, that is, we only have their biographies, we really want new judges and prosecutors to do their job successfully, honestly and honestly, and, most importantly, I sincerely hope, completely independent of politicians, who and how they have had an impact on their choice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43743	Four minutes have been used by the MPs' group. The People's Messenger Mirko Munjic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43744	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, this authority began judicial reform at the end of 2008. A number of reasons for judicial reform were then listed, and one of the reasons was the accumulated problems in the judiciary that were established by that period, then the alignment with the new constitution, as well as the alignment with the EU's positive legislation. At that time, at the end of 2008, when this reform of the judiciary, as representatives of the opposition, as representatives of the SRS, really brought out a lot of arguments in favour of criticising this concept of judicial reform. We felt then, and today, that I am the concept of reforming the judiciary that you have presented then and in this way is not good, that it is not comprehensive and that it will not lead in the right way to reform the justice system in Serbia. And today, when we point out, as representatives of the opposition, a number of criticisms at the expense of this concept of judicial reform, regardless of what it is about the concrete selection of certain candidates who are first elected judges and deputy prosecutors, it is normal that we are, to say, in the subject. Because every time we really need to highlight these criticisms, we need to highlight the arguments that we, as an opposition, think are relevant and that I can really contribute in some way, provided that you understand them properly and adopt them, that this reform of the judiciary is better and more comprehensive. As for the way in which judges and prosecutors are elected, it is directly linked to the selection of those who propose and the holders of judicial and prosecutorial functions, which are, in fact, members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors. When elected members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, we also had a number of objections to the election. We then highlighted these objections and the direct dependence of this election on the choices we have today and which we have had since the end of 2008 and 2009 to date is indeed in direct connection with this choice. The next thing I can say, as a criticism and as something I wouldn't want them to have as a feature of these candidates who, I'm sure, will be elected by the assembly majority, is a lack of independence in the work, hence lack of independence of judges and prosecutors. This is directly related to another trait, with a lack of objectivity and impartiality. If the judge in his work is not independent, it is perfectly normal that he cannot make objective decisions, that he cannot be impartial in his work, and that is indeed something that represents some kind of alphabet in every judicial system, including in the Serbian state's judicial system. However, what is the situation in our judiciary when it comes to these basic principles on which every judicial system rests? The choice of judges as judge-holders and the choice of deputies sued, as well as the method of choice and structure of the bodies proposing their choice, is indeed often highly disputable. Very often, unskilled judges and prosecutors are elected. Unquality according to various criteria – based on professional skills, based on the necessary work experience, based on human, or moral values and characteristics. Indeed, we have had a number of criticisms so far when it comes to all these things that are relevant for the choice of Judge and Prosecutorial Officers. And in each election, even today, when proposing these faces for judges and for the first election for the deputy public prosecutor, you point out that, starting from the high degree, as you say – knowledge, skills and moral traits that the candidate owns, he proposes to be elected Judge, Deputy Prosecutor, etc. However, what is our real situation in the judiciary, which is very important, I say, to point out every time judges and prosecutors are elected? Thousands of pending cases (both in courts and in the prosecution), many corruption in the judiciary (are about individual cases, but if there are many, they already cease to be individual; we remember various examples in the context of certain resolution of the situation in the field of bankruptcy, in the area of privatisation, etc.) and the choice of "like" judges and prosecutors. All of this needs to be pointed out today, when we have a proposal for the first choice of judges and prosecutors. So we have two decisions – to elect judges, as Mr Mladen Nikolic explained to us, and to select the deputy prosecutor, which we heard in the explanation of Mr Ostojić. I'm not going to go too far with the biographies shown in these motions to elect judges' and prosecutorial offices. This highlights their basic characteristics, and I wouldn't go too far into it. Mr Krasic gave some of his visions, which were very good, and indeed anyone who wanted to understand well-intentioned what he said could be clear what he really said and how you explained the professional and other characteristics of these candidates for the holders of judicial and prosecutorial functions. But I'd look back on just one thing, for example. to the election of Sladjana Paunovic as deputy public prosecutor at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Cačka. In some ways, I can also express my satisfaction that this one vacant seat in the General Prosecutor's Office in Cačka will be filled, hopefully, with an adequate personality. From the characteristics we have for this lady or missus, we can see that the general assessment is given for this candidate's "particularly stands out" and that it has all the qualities and qualities necessary for the worthy performance of the deputy public prosecutor's office. I hope this will be an adequate fill-up at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Chačka. However, I would just like to ask one question about an example of practice related to the General Prosecutor's Office in Chačka. It might also be in the domain of theory, that it has the character of theoretical questions, but believe me, when you hear what it's about, you'll see that it happens in practice. I would ask Mr Nikolic and Mr Ostojić – did you in your practice have a situation for the judge to make certain decisions without a session? I said it could be in the domain of theory, but now I'm going to tell you that it's actually a practice, that it's possible to be in our practice. Former Judge of the former Municipal Court in Guca Jelena Curcic, in his capacity...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43745	The MP, with all due respect and understanding that the subject of the election requires both enlargement, speech and remarks on judicial reform and about what little is touched by the elections, the subject you have begun does not touch that in any way. It's not about the person whose name you mention, whose choice is over. Please respect article 107 and speak of agenda item.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43746	Then I'm going to end up with a transformation, in a way, of what I was going to say. The question arises whether the newly elected holders of the judicial and prosecutorial functions (including, here I mentioned one name – Sladjana Paunovic, as a proposal for a deputy public prosecutor at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Cačka) will be enough to solve the accumulated problems, which I believe exist in the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Cačka. I sincerely hope that this candidate, I said that in the beginning, if you listened to me, Madam Chairman, will indeed be an adequate person to solve certain problems in this prosecution. Let me just say that, among other things, the case this candidate will probably have in this primary prosecutor's office will also be the subject of a criminal complaint that has been in that main prosecution for seven months. You can see how much this has to do with the selection of this person for the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Cacca. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43747	Eleven minutes and 30 seconds have been used; 30 seconds for warning of article 107 and agenda item. National MP Sreto Peric has a word after him, MP Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43748	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a proposal for a decision to elect a public prosecutor, a motion for a decision to elect judges for a period of three years, representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors. It is simply inconceivable, incomprehensible, and I think incorrectly, that every topic in this House should be put down to that level and indicated that it is not within the scope of the National Assembly to open a wide debate when it comes to the choice of court and prosecutorial functions. Someone wanted to say – you have a proposal for a candidate and, accordingly, probably, on behalf of the High Council of the judiciary Mr Mladen Nikolic, and on behalf of the State Council of Prosecutors Mr. Djordje Ostojić should have said – good afternoon, we have come, we propose these candidates, please choose. National MPs of the Serbian Radical Party every time it comes to the choice of judges or prosecutors they want, and in order to make a serious contribution to the reform of the judicial system – and not because of you, you do not deserve it, but because of those who appear as parties in the proceedings before the prosecution or before the court – open a series of questions. It would be good for today, when we talk about this, to have someone from the Justice Department hear what's important. Because justice reform is not over, we don't know and no one knows when it will be over. Surely in the way you suggest it, you travel, it won't be long. At the end of 2008, when you said - we are determined to enter a judicial system reform, you said that to thank judges who are not worthy, who are not professional, who do not have the necessary quality, to throw corruption out of the judiciary. Oh, that's not true. There is one city that begins with the letter "S", has five letters in its name and is well-known who from that city was coming to Belgrade and bringing, and it is clear exactly how much, that someone would be elected as a judge. We do not want to accept such a situation in the area of justice. Not because of us, but because of a large number of citizens who have a need, and also the obligation sometimes to appear before these bodies, either by invitation or by addressing the protection of their property rights, their dignity, and not to state now all the reasons that could exist. The rule on criteria and criteria for the assessment of expertise, training, dignity is something that has been passed outside this Parliament and has not been sufficiently precise in the election. Professionality. What does expertise mean? Well, the condition that law school was completed, passed a judicial exam and a certain number of years of experience. The training. And what's the training for? If someone was the secretary of some cooperative or worked anywhere outside the D.A.'s office or court, how exactly are we going to evaluate how qualified he is to be elected? Dignity. It's something we can track. He was worthy before, because he may not have played such a responsible role in society, and now that he's received and elected, then there's the possibility that it might not be so. Did you, gentlemen of the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of the Prosecutor's Office, analyse the costs and you had to do that, for those judges or prosecutors who travel daily and more than 200 kilometers from the place of residence in a place where they perform a judicial or prosecutorial post? And then, even during this proposal, you could now remove part of the problem, that is to keep some of the material resources that are being wasted uncontrollably in this way. Have you done an analysis of the amount of material resources the unselected judges have received so far? And here we are now heard from the chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee that the government has found the opportunity to extend that period. How do you, Mr Nikolic, explain that, originally on December 25th, a circular letter has been sent to all the unselected judges, and now since half of June, you have started to send each unaccepted judge a special explanation that has not been received, and you know well that tomorrow will be held a meeting of judges who are not elected together with a lawyer team who will decide to address the International Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, to make an assessment of the costs and how and how it will be financed? The SRS proposal is that if this happens, the costs to the International Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, if they win the dispute, are borne by those involved in making such a decision. We have proposed to you, although we are deeply aware that the reform of the judiciary is necessary, because, especially since 2000, negative selection has been conducted, and we show you every time we talk about this – good, professional, quality, moral, because of the influence of the policy to leave the court or the prosecution, and the worse they were elected to their seats – we have shown you that it would be much better, this is a long-term process, perhaps a small and natural element that you gave him, that the process should have been kept for maybe two more years. Then a large number of good, honest, honorable judges would get the right to retire and the state wouldn't have any extra costs. This network of the judiciary and the prosecution is certainly not well established. That's what those who work in courts and prosecutors say, the parties also say. Because of the court cabs, some will probably be forced, and hopefully there won't be a lot of them, we want them to be as small as possible, to take justice into their own hands, and when justice needs to be realized by someone who isn't professionally trained for it, it can get quite unwanted consequences. That's why we're surprised that you're bringing one of these serious topics down to a level like this, that there's almost no need to talk about this. Of course, counterpart Ristic said – you have no serious arguments or did not make any serious arguments to challenge the proposed candidates. We won't, for principle reasons, do it. But what does being a folk MP mean to us, a biography, I'm not going to say the name at all, "born in Zajecar in 1979"? Of course he was born, because if he wasn't born and he wasn't alive today, he couldn't compete at all. "Law Faculty of Law in Belgrade" does not matter when. If he had not graduated from the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, or elsewhere, and had not passed a judicial exam in 2006, he could also not have been a candidate for a judge. But we don't even know what the average was, or how long he studied, or how many years he passed the judicial exam, or what the evaluations of what he was doing, but were given in a professional and serious way, rather than giving you the qualifications that he was, perhaps in a humorous way, but very impressively speaking to his colleague Krasic. These are very serious things, which require more serious preparation and more serious offers for MPs who really want justice reform to be directed in the right direction and that the sooner it is realised. It's an open process, which will certainly take a long time, and we're prepared to do so. But you certainly didn't. Especially not ready, I must say, my colleague, Bosko Ristic. We suspect that some other judicial institutions will be moved to Nis. It is not good to transfer the concentration in the area of justice to only one space. What if tomorrow the chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee is changed, will he want to be in a completely different place? I must take this opportunity, since I assume there is someone from the prosecution, and I would like to suggest that the republican prosecutor reacts to the statement of the president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Boris Tadic, who gave to all the MPs who were present last night and where he...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43749	People's MP, please stick to the subject of the agenda. For all others there are official posts, official channels and authorities in which you can exercise your right to submit applications. Article 107, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43750	This is extremely related to the subject we're talking about. If you don't allow it, I don't have any dilemmas to give it up, but then it'll stay...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43751	People's MP, I warn you to stick to the subject of the agenda. It's not about giving up, it's about the agenda which is – the choice of judges and deputy prosecutors.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43752	This is a good way to check out what kind of judges and prosecutors we choose. If the President of the Republic says the foreign minister has done a great job, and in his cabinet there is a way to conduct foreign policy, then this suggests that it is a violation of the Constitution...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43753	National MP, second warning. Even at best, your remarks on what the Minister of Foreign Affairs or the President of the Republic has said cannot be drawn up in connection with candidates for the deputy of the Republic's public prosecutor or with candidates for judges.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43754	Thank you for letting me ask most of the questions. I think they understood those who wanted to understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43755	11 minutes and 30 seconds of MP time have been used. National MP Milan Avramovic has a word, followed by MP Petar Jojic. The parliamentary group has 22 minutes and 45 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43756	So far, we have a list of the names of the 1.531 re-elected judge, but we still don't know the names 837 that were elected for the first time in three years, which still have to go through the election procedure in the National Assembly, it seems to me that such information, as well as the names of 600 misdemeanor judges, which are also entering the judicial system. The problem is that after a very short time, the High Council of the judiciary had to decide on the candidates, the public, judges and prosecutors only have names, as well as the MPs, not the criteria for why some are, and others are not re-elected. I will remind you of the words of the President of the High Council of the judiciary Nate Mesarovic, who says the unselected know why they did not pass and that the body is ready to clarify in a public conversation the failure of those who were hit or who feel that they still do not meet all the criteria: expertise, training and dignity. This last criterion was, of course, immediately targeted by both MPs and the public, given that among the elected judges there are those who have come back to the scene and have a bad history. Among the elected and those "worthy" (as VSS president) is Sonja Brkic, who received the money...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43757	People's MP, I warn you on the subject of the agenda which is the subject of our work, therefore – the choice of judges and deputy prosecutors. Your intention to set the subject so widely that you speak of people's names and last names and the process that has been completed and which we have discussed at a completely different point in the agenda is unacceptable. So, article 107 and agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43758	Mrs. Comić, if you'd let me, I'd make a connection and a buckle, and I just need it for...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43759	I wouldn't let you, and that's why I'm warning you. Article 107, agenda theme. The chosen judges and processes and legal actions concerning the elected judges are not the subject of today's work. So, the first choice, both the judge and the deputy prosecutor, who is in front of you, is the subject of our work.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43760	So, my intention is absolutely to talk about an authorised promoter, and that is the High Council of the Judiciary, that is Mrs. Nata Mesarovic, who gave...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43761	National MP, please do not disrespect the institutions of the Republic of Serbia. The High Council of the judiciary is not Nata Mesarovic. Either with respect to the authorities, bodies and organisations of the Republic of Serbia, you will either leave me no room for another but to remind you of our obligations of polite treatment to each other and to the bodies and institutions that we wish to make our comments about.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43762	I don't know which way to turn and you realize it's part of this agenda. Whatever I say, you disagree. I really don't have the opportunity to talk about what I wanted to talk about, so I'm interrupting my discussion right now, so you'll be pleased.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43763	Three minutes and 40 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. The MP group has 19 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43764	Mrs. Komic, gentlemen of the prosecution and the High Council of the judiciary, Mr. Zoran Krasic has drawn attention to some things that are not quite acceptable at this time, at this stage, when we are working on judicial reform in the Republic of Serbia. In the material that was delivered, Mr Krasic said, "he participated in seminars". That's not a criterion. I had a chance to be in both the Republic and the Federal Department of Justice and I see that some things haven't changed at all. I have condemned the spending of budget funds when it comes to seminars and participation in seminars. Hundreds of millions of dinars have been spent over the last decade on seminars and some of these improvements. These seminars can't be a criterion. The seminar on the Kopalnik or on Zlatibor or in Vrnjačka Banja, which includes 1,000, 1,500 or 2,000 people, is more like a fair, wedding or a party. And I publicly said it was tourism. I'm not going to name anything here right now, but the big money's been spent, and since that seminar, it's a very small show. The government, the government and the budget suffer such seminars as have, in practice, proved to be absolutely useless. The second criterion mentioned in the material is ambition. You know, someone can have ambition, but is that ambition a healthy ambition? So, can she be a benchmark? Some corporal wants to be a general and takes the right to say it – I have ambition to be a general. That's the same thing for you when one candidate has ambitions. More specifically, it's the same way of accepting information and opinions as in the '80s and the '90s. He says – the opinion of all judges of the Court of Appeal or the opinion of the session of all judges of the Court of Commerce is that it is both worthy and professional, etc. What does the High Council of the Judiciary and the State's Major Prosecutors turn into? They are turning into an institution that will only be certified by the Judiciary Council or the Prosecutors' Council in advance. But you can't see from the material here, I can't talk about candidates, maybe they're honorable, honest, valuable, etc., but in the same way... I remember, one of the "Jula" came to me at the Justice Department and brought in a list of candidates from the "Yugoslav Left" we have to accept as candidates for judges and prosecutors. When that gentleman came to me, I won't name him, he was from 'Jula', and he brought a list of 'Jula' memos, I told him – you can go from where you came from; here you are, with your memo and your list of 'Levica', you won't participate in the choice of judges. That's how it happened. That is why I note that the same way of thinking is earlier to the College of Judges of the Court, now sitting in that court, but the High Council of the Judiciary and the State's Chief Prosecutors have a very delicate role to play in checking all this out and determining the facts of the candidate's case. Mr. Ostojić, I have a specific case when it comes to the prosecution's choice. It's a candidate from the Panchev Public Prosecutor's Office. It's about Miroslav Lozi, who is Slovak. I concluded that he couldn't go by the criteria and criteria (I doubt it, maybe I'm wrong) just because he's Slovak. I know he's clean, unsuspecting, moral and professional. Write it down, please, it's about Loci Miroslav. Ask everyone from the D.A.'s office, from the former district and municipal court in Pancheva, about what kind of man and moral quality it is. I've known him for 30 years. He's honorable and honest. But there is one thing: that man has charged a local mighty man and has not passed. I don't want to say which party it's from, I don't want to comment on it, it wouldn't be appropriate. I'm scared, and I think we all have evidence. Gentlemen of these high-level judicial institutions, you are witnessing that the Council of Europe, the committee responsible, has made objections in the way judges and prosecutors are elected in Serbia. Only this number of people who are now elected, who appear in competition and you choose them now, confirms and proves that it was a catastrophic mistake for these people not to be elected but in the first round. It's evidence you can't even pass. It's proof that it's not done well in this business. I would draw attention, there were some comments that the BIA data used in the selection of judges and prosecutors and, if the measures of the Code of Criminal Procedure were used, that there were listening, monitoring, photography, shooting, etc., if there are such concrete cases, free to publish them, it will act preventively on all others who would think today and tomorrow to go towards corruption or bribe. I note that you had a case from one municipal court that all judges were elected, in the same region, in the other none. I repeat this - no judge has passed in one district court, but that's why the president of the court has passed in a higher rank. Please, is it possible that this man, who was at the head of that court, had met the conditions? Was he the host? Was he the organizer? Does the Rules of Procedure give him the right to follow the work of every individual? He's giving it to him for the right. But, you see, what's happened is what's happened. I think this is a lesson that you, gentlemen of the D.A.'s office and the High Council of the Judiciary, should still be careful who you are suggested and who is proposing and why you propose it. Here, Mr. Bosko Ristic knows, in those times, the President of the District Court – Dad, daughter – lawyer, and son-in-law – prosecutor or president of the Board of Appeal, or second-degree council. But I don't want to burden you with that right now. I would just like to draw public attention to this opportunity, as well as to point out to you how they do so in parallel law in other countries, the example works in France or in England or other EU countries, and in which direction the policy of the Republic of Serbia is conducted to bring some legislation into line with EU countries. The courts in England are organized by three criteria. The first refers to the matter decided by the courts, the second criterion is the domain of the actual jurisdiction of the courts, and the third instance the relationship between the courts. On the first criterion, some courts solve criminal cases and other civil cases, according to the second criterion, courts may be higher and lower, and according to the third criterion they differ according to institutional jurisdiction so that some are only first-degree and some are first-degree and second-degree courts at the same time. I would only ask that we apply those comparative rules relating to the judiciary of the countries of Angola and European law, but with a more developed legal system. The last complaint in the civil and criminal cases of England, Scotland and Northern Ireland is the House of Lords or, as they call it, the Upper House. He has a specific constitutional position because it is essentially a judicial body within the parliament. I would like to say that the House of Lords as a judicial body is just a technical part of the same-named parliamentary home, from which it is functionally separated. As the highest court and final appeal in the country, it was established (and imagine, not changing) by law of 1876, and currently there are 12 who have a life-long title of hereditary feather. Spreading ideas beyond England. When it comes to events in England in the 17th century, it should not be forgotten that at that time, absoluteism was ruled in the rule of Louis XIV in France. In England, parliament and courts, persistent and firm opposition to absoluteism has been expressed, leading to a restrictive monarch government. France, as the first continental country to achieve judicial independence in the troubled revolutionary times, was well turned to English role models. With its 1814 Constitutional Charter, France begins to base the foundations of judicial independence and the sustainability of their service. Be careful, please, how the independence of the English judges is regulated. If there's something above all else the Englishman can be sure of, it's that judges are independent of the government, i.e. by the executive authority, which is why they enjoy the public's trust. Whether it was a case in the past and whether it is now with us, it remains that both you and the public and those who are employed in these institutions are prices. The tradition was initiated by a law establishing another 1700, which first gave judges full independence from the crown and government, allowing them to decide without fear, which is the basis of their professional integrity. The judge is expected to rule in accordance with applicable law, without any pressure. The independence of English courts is based on three basic divisions of authorities, ensuring the sustainability of the service and setting up judges from the ranks of a free and independent legal profession. Gentlemen of the D.A.'s and the High Council of the Judiciary, gentlemen of the Cassation Court and other senior courts, as you can see, in England and in other countries, the basic base for selecting legal holders is a lawyer. The lawyers used to think of Broz as an enemy institution, so 750 lawyers ended up in prisons. So Gilas said back then, back in 1953 -- she's good Osna, and she's not bad, not even the militia, because she was in control of the lawyers. How is that regulated when it comes to France? In short, only the best students of law schools, according to completed studies, if they want their career to be a judicial call, but only the best, apply for enrolment in schools, begin a specific two-year study in the best conditions provided by the school in Bordeaux (and as regards lecturers and other benefits, libraries, space and others) and spend a lot of time gaining practical judicial knowledge in all institutions. But watch what's interesting about France - future judges spend two weeks in prison, to see what the situation is like in these prisons, what the convicted are experiencing, and that they might also have that fact in mind, as an experienced circumstance, in measuring the penalty. How much time do I have left, Madam Vice President? (President: minutes and 45 seconds. ) See if it has any influence or no influence on whether the executive authority and whether the emperor in a state, king or president of the Republic or Prime Minister has jurisdiction over courts. When James Two fired Judge Thomas Jones, noting that he welcomed more than 12 other judges, do you know what James told him? He replied that he could surely find 12 obedient judges to support whatever the king wanted, but that he would not be able to find 12 lawyers for the same purpose. And since the law profession in England has always been, and today it is the ones whose ranks are chosen by the judges that the independent spirit has been born again and spread among the judges, no matter how far they have been replaced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43765	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. No, I don't. ) Before I conclude the search on the motions for decisions, do the representatives of Proposal Mladen Nikolic, an election member of the High Council of Judges, or Djordje Ostojic, an election member of the State Council of Prosecutors, want to give a final statement on the basis of Article 144? Yeah. ) Here you are, Mladen Nikolic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43766	Dear People's MPs, I'll be very brief. I have listened carefully to the discussion that followed the proposal of the High Council of the judiciary and I can conclude that in the predominantly part there was a question of judicial reform and the election that had already been completed. In the smaller part, there was talk of the agenda, or topic, and I listened carefully. There were several constructive proposals. I have come to understand what the objections of the MPs of the people and I will pass them on to the VSS, and we will surely keep in mind what the MPs suggest. However, I understand the MPs that, given that they are representatives of the people and of certain political parties, they have, above all, a political function, but I ask you to understand me. I'm a judge, and as a judge, I'm used to being slow, so all I can do is stick to the subject here. When it comes to explaining the candidate's proposal, we listed certain information about the candidates. I realized there was more detail to be given. The high advice of the judiciary can do so, of course, but the criteria that exist are clear. They're adopted and easily verifiable. Before proposing candidates, the VSS shall hold meetings, consider each application, examine each candidate, verify the results of the work, verify all the evidence that the applicant has provided in terms of the degree, the judicial exam, the average, etc., so that we will not run away from any such information as may be provided with the proposal. I have something else to say, what I said in my first address – we appreciate everything. Therefore, these candidates for the first election shall also take into account the length of study and the average assessment and evaluation of the work and opinion of the session of all judges. We can't get around that, and it's very important, and we have a record that came after the session of all the studies, so we respect that record. It's not something that certain courts, or sessions, speak out of their minds or without any basis. One thing I'm also going to say about what Honorable counterpart Jojic was saying. This high house has passed the Law of the Judicial Academy. When the provisions of this law apply and the academy functions, the future choice of judges will be completely and in the right way. That's what's next, and let's call this a transitional period. In the end, I have two things to react to. One concerns conflict of interest when it comes to members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. So there's an exception institute, it's regulated by the rules of procedure on work and make sure that this institute is applied. The other thing that's mentioned, so I understand, is possible corruption in the election. If anyone has such knowledge or any evidence, please contact the competent institutions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43767	Does he want to give the closing statement to Djordje Ostojic, an election member of the State Council of Prosecutors? No, I don't. I thank you. I am concluding a joint single search on the motion for a decision to elect judges to a three-year term in courts of general and special jurisdiction and a proposal for a decision to elect a deputy public prosecutor. I thank the representatives of the High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors. We're finishing up the morning part of our work. We'll continue at 1600 hours, moving to the second item of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43768	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are moving to item 2 of the agenda – a proposal for a decision on the election of the president of the National Bank of Serbia's Board of Governors, which was submitted by the Committee on Finance on 13 July 2010. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours, as well as that of this time, shall be allocated to MPs' groups in proportion to the number of MPs of MPs, and so shall the MP group 'For European Serbia' belongs hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; to the SRS parliamentary group – hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; to the G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; to the MP group 'Forward, Serbia' – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; to the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; to the SPS-JS – 18 minutes; to the MEP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; to the Parliament group 'New Serbia' – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; to the group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and to the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak each and every one, up to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups that, if they have not done so, they shall report a word with the order of the MPs. I would like to inform you that the SRS Parliamentary Group has authorised it to represent MP Zoran Krasic. There are no other powers. According to Article 163(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision to elect the President of the National Bank Governor's Council. Does Mrs. Ljiljak, the proposing representative, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43769	Dear Presidents, the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a motion for a decision on the election of the President of the National Bank of Serbia's Board of Governors. In the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, the proposing candidate for the Council, in this case and for the president, is the relevant committee of the National Assembly, which is the Committee on Finance. He suggests a candidate, and the National Assembly adopts him at the session. The president of the National Bank Council resigned and moved on to another post, leaving the place vacant here. At the meeting of the Finance Committee, we discussed the proposal for a candidate for President of the Council, however, only one candidacy came, and at the session we adopted most votes to make it Dr. Bosko Zivkovic. I'd like to remind you of what's in the National Bank Governor's Council Act. The governors' council numbers five members, including the president, and is elected for a term of six years. The Board of Governors shall adopt its statutes, determine the course regime on a proposal from the Executive Board, with the consent of the Government, adopt the National Bank's financial plan, adopt the annual financial plan, elect an external auditor, etc. In a discussion on the vote of the National Bank Act, a lot of debates explained what "the exchange rate regime" means and what "with the consent of the Government" means. The question was whether the government would influence the Board of Governors, including the monetary and fiscal policy run by the National Bank. I would only remind myself if I had said the same thing at the time – the National Bank is independent, should remain that way, but it must have some connection with both the Government and Parliament. I think the Board of Governors could be this link between the Government and the National Bank, because there will be elected people who are not from the banking world, or are not employees of the National Bank, and should be professional, and that the Committee on Finance, which proposes candidates, will take good care of who it chooses and how it chooses them, that they must be professional and credible people who will make decisions and carry out all that the law provides for the work of the Board of Governors. I would add that when selecting candidates for members of the Council, we really need to make sure that they are people of the profession, because their decisions will significantly affect that, together with the governor, they are leading monetary policy the way the state of Serbia deserves it. I'd like to say a few words about the candidate. With what you've got in the material, I'd just like to point out a few things, because I think both citizens and MPs should know who it's about. The candidate for President of the Board of Governors is Bosko R. Zivkovic, born 1954. In his work biography, he said he had graduated from the Faculty of Economics, that he had also mastered and graduated from the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade. Professional definitions are his financial economy, banking and the financial market. I would add that since it was one of the essential elements of biography, it was perfected at prestigious universities in the world. He has worked in many important places, has good work experience, and this gives him every opportunity to make a full contribution at the National Bank, or where it is proposed. I think that in voting day we should vote for this candidate and thus contribute to rounding the continent, for the National Bank to get this post next to the governor, so that it can work and conduct monetary policy as it has done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43770	I thank Mrs. Ljiljak. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Radojko Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43771	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the item of the agenda is the election of the President of the National Bank Council and, within the jurisdiction of the Assembly that we have, this is, we have to admit, one of the very important tasks that the Assembly has and needs to do. If all the powers are given and the powers of the National Bank Council have been changed, as the Council of the National Bank has been strengthened, it is of particular importance that this debate be at a very high level and that an extremely professional man, who will be independent and independent, enter the seat of the President of the Council. I don't think independence is enough, he needs to be independent and independent of politics and that the National Bank's impact on the stability of the financial system must be very high. This is one of the last points of the agenda of this extraordinary session, and I think it's going to be a month break, maybe a little more days, so it's not bad that when we talk about the People's Bank, we're talking about all those jobs that are waiting for the People's Bank and they're expecting all of us in the next few months. Let's get in line. The proposed candidate is Mr. Bosko Zivkovic. He was already a member of the National Bank Council, between 2001 and 2003. We followed his work closely and I must say that we have no objection to his biography. On the other hand, we have one remark – I don't know why it was released in the biography that he and a member of the Economic Council of the Prime Minister. I don't think it's an unimportant function, and it's just supposed to be in the biography and that important job. I know the Prime Minister, and there are five members of his council who mostly disagree with the things the government does, but I don't see any reason why it doesn't stand here. The other thing is whether or not it is controversial and it could endanger the function if it is a member of the Economic Council of the Prime Minister even though it is a member of the National Bank Council. Other things in Mr. Zivkovic's biography are absolutely not controversial. The second question or question that is raised in itself, which is primarily important to us, is what Mr. Zivkovic's views are about the function of the National Bank Council and about the dealings of the National Bank. That's what needs to be primary and what needs to be first. The job of the National Bank is extremely important, especially in countries that have problems like Serbia, and what a view of the solutions that we have today and which we will have in the next few months. For example, what awaits us in the next six months until the end of this calendar year? What is the National Bank planning to do? How does the National Bank view the opposing objectives of the National Bank with those things that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has? I remind you that the government's priorities are to launch economy and employment, infrastructure operations and address budgetary problems. What will the policy of course be? It interests all of us together. If we start with budget revenues, we see that the revenues absolutely do not match what was planned. When we look at the revenues in the first six months, they're published on the Ministry of Finance website, we see that in the first six months we have 48 billion dinar deficits. What awaits us in the next six months is the way we will fill the deficit, as the question is how these functions, price stability, inflation and budget deficit filling will reflect on Serbia's overall economic scene. To remind me, the Republic of Serbia's budget envisions a deficit of 102 billion. The consolidated deficit is about 125-126-127 billion. In other words, we're missing about 70 billion dinars by the end of the year to fill out the budget deficit. But the budget of the Republic of Serbia also has obligations under the issued state records. Only by the end of the year do we have to serve the new 100 billion dinars of commitments that have been made. The budget does not define, or it is professionally called 'underline', obligations to creditors from abroad. When all of this is considered, it is about two billion euros or 200 billion dinars of commitments that we need to make the budget zero. In what way will this be put into operation with all those functions of the National Bank, and how will Serbia in general be able to exist and to meet all those obligations? What I can conclude with concern is that when you look at the revenue and expenditure side of the budget, practically the part that the government is most concerned about, and these are capital investments, they only suffer in this kind of budget policy. All other expenditure items shall be effected except for capital expenditure, which are practically negligible. So how is this going to work with the start of economy, employment and all those things that we need to accomplish? It is particularly worrying that there are obviously serious problems with trust in the country, financially. In June, a total of less than 20% of state records were purchased by banks on the financial system. What does that mean? This means that, on the one hand, banks have practically exhausted their capacity, and on the other hand, it is obvious that the interest rates offered are not sufficient and are not stimulating enough for banks. Of course, in the next six months, in order to meet these requirements, it must follow the growth of interest rates. The growth of interest rates affects growth and price and everything else. How will the National Bank react in this situation? What happens to the level of the mandatory reserve and what happens to the reference interest rate? That's the question that will be crucial to all of us in the months to come. Obviously, there is a serious problem in selecting priorities. That's what the previous governor and the National Bank Council have repeatedly pointed to all of us, and apparently that problem is not solved. Because we're deciding all sorts of things, and there are serious problems. Just look at Corridor 10. The way from Horgos or through Vojvodina is refinanced from the loan, and that's the hidden deficit we don't see at first sight. Like a year ago, we haven't seen this deficit associated with government records, and it's going to show up in the second half of this year. The big question is how will the National Bank Council react to this and what a recipe it will be to find these two billion euros, as it is obvious that it is increasingly difficult to find funds on the international market. These funds will not be in the next period either, because the growth rates in Europe, and we are facing Europe, do not indicate that we will be able to solve these problems, and then there will be a serious problem in how to fill the budget deficit. And the budget deficit can't be the basic function that the government has. The base function must be the exchange of components. There are obviously serious problems here. The second thing that we are particularly interested in, and regarding the National Bank Council, is what will be the relationship to the public debt of the Republic of Serbia will come to a point where the methodology of the National Bank and the methodology of the Government of Serbia will be uniform. I completely agree with my colleague, Ljiljak. It would be good to make that bond, because when we look at the external debt, as recorded by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and when we look at the external debt as recorded by the National Bank, the difference is no less than three billion and 100 million euros. According to official data from the government of the Republic of Serbia, external debt is 5,073,000,000 euros on June 30th. When we look at the NBS data a month earlier, 31. May, the external debt is 8,203,000,000 euros. That's 10% of GDP. What is the real debt of the Republic of Serbia? It's obviously not a negligible thing. The second thing, it turns out that foreign debt isn't exactly 31%, but according to the latest data, it's 35%. What happens if the euro course continues to grow the way it is growing now? The growth of the euro course directly affects the increase in debt ratios towards GDP. The reason is very simple – we were in debt mostly in euro and most of our debt is in a conversion currency. GDP is mainly realised in dinars, and the change in the course is evidently and inevitably affecting the growth of this relationship. The second thing is that the ratio of the total foreign debt, accounting for the private and public sectors, has exceeded 75% of GDP, and research in developing countries, carried out by the World Bank and the IMF, says that when that limit exceeds 60%, it is then seriously threatened by the country's long-term development. Even up to 2% of growth decreases if public debt is large. Of course, because of the obligation to serve that public debt. So the question in front of all of us in the National Assembly, in the Bank, in the Government, in front of all Serbian citizens – how will Serbia move towards this new growth model? Is this new growth model sustainable? If so, how? If not, what's the way out of this situation? And that question that we will find difficult to answer – what is waiting for us in the next six months? Unfortunately for me, the answer is quite uniform – for the next six months, due to the current pay deficits, the further growth of the euro rate is imminent. That absolutely can't be avoided. The National Bank spent a billion and a half euros in defence of the course and has only eased its decline, but it is obvious that the balance has not yet been reached and the question is where is the sustainability limit of the situation and the economic model we are currently in. It is clear that, because of the deficits we have and due to the obligation to meet the budget commitments, interest must go up. There's no equation that can stop that. (Here's Mr. Nikolic.) Am I right? ) It will absolutely be a scenario that follows over the next six months. In response to the growth of the rate and the growth of interest rates, there is absolutely a reduction in economic activity and growth in unemployment, and the answer to all this is further borrowing and public debt growth. A script none of us want to happen, but it happens. Is there a way out of all this? Of course there is, and the way out of this is to reform and solve all those problems that we unfortunately don't solve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43772	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43773	Thank you. On the occasion of the talks on a proposal for President of the Board of Governors, I had three principled objections. To my satisfaction, colleague Branka Ljiljak threw me one possible argument to comment because she gave basic remarks, which is very positive. Although it seems strange to someone, but it is absolutely necessary to say – what are the competences of the man we choose, who are in fact implementing the law that the public explain what we are dealing with and what Mr. Zivkovic is qualified to be proposed for President of the Board of Governors. In that sense, thank you, colleague. I want this to be a good practice, because there are people who know this, but it's the largest number of people who actually want to hear why we're dealing with, before the end of this summer session, in the middle of an extraordinary session, this topic. Also, one part of the remark that would spend some time on me was you. I will commend this necessary level of co-operation, with my praise to be consistent and complete, that the Government and the National Bank must cooperate on economic policy, which is not exactly consistently implemented by the NBS Act, but it is simply necessary that someone who is, and I don't mind that a man was a Prime Minister in the Government and a member of the National Bank Council, because from there he can have the best insight into all the mistakes of economic policy so far, and in all the failures that he could now, from this place, correct. The basic question is now being asked – should the adviser be and may be someone who deals with higher-level theory, financial market theory, banking itself and consulting the Prime Minister, where I have to be absolutely precise and say that Mr. Jurij Bajec was the loudest in this consultation, in terms of glorifying and giving for government law when he takes some steps those who disagreed with this policy or measures did not often attend the public to explain these measures. As someone, in order to deal with the affairs of financial police or consulting, needs to know how a job is done on a theoretical level, so he has to know how it is possible to abuse international accounting standards, accounting, accounting, etc., so that he can control someone, in the same way advisers and measure makers in monetary policy must also have the necessary practical experience. Mr. Zivkovic does not have it directly, but I expect his research level of knowledge to replace him in his long-standing work in various areas with a lack of dealing with the specific work of someone as a financier, as a banker or as someone who has dealt with the markets. I have another remark, which is more a public question. In 2004, on the eve of the affair with that third show of the National Savings Bank (if you remember, it is the fraud of the century only Dinkic is convinced that he is a fraud of the century, and I tell him – when someone objective starts to deal with financial flows and has in the police a second hand of co-operation, it will prove to be not a perfect fraud), Mr. Zivkovic was in the Securities Committee. Imagine now a coincidence, he resigned from the Securities Commission on 14 August 2003, which was scheduled to decide on the third emissions of this greatest fraud of the century at the National Savings Bank. That show happened in September. I ask a question to all of us – is it a man who retreats from problems or avoids participating in controversial things that he could not prevent? Let it be a fundamental question of my discussion about the election of the National Bank Council president. He's not here, he hasn't been elected yet, and here I am asking him a public question – did you, Mr. Zivkovic, withdraw from problems because simply, as an honest and responsible man, you didn't want to participate in these problems? And the National Bank was in trouble to issue a statement later on, saying, at the call of the current economy minister and regional development, Mr Dinkic, who then called Zivkovic president of the Securities Commission, why he did not file charges against the people who participated in the illegal action. The minister did not know it was the man who resigned, but he is the current minister today, leading a quasibank that is not directly in charge of the National Bank that decides on all business and other banks, and the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development shares the largest number of loans through its quasibank called the ministry. What co-operation, level of verification, control – preventive, subsequent – will be achieved there? It is a question for us Serbian MPs and citizens as someone who is interested not only in good intentions, but in the effects of someone's expertise and responsibility for someone who spends people's money. Not the state, but the people. My question is not at all inaccurate or pointless. If, at the moment you replace a very professional and capable person, in the second term, led by the Development Fund, you fully deliberately create a public perception that the use of funds in the Development Fund has been made by an error of the person leading the Development Fund. And just a few lines of journalists announce that in fact, there has been an abuse of start-up loans approved by the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, so a funny journalist called it'start-ap resale', which is loans for beginners, where billions of people abuse the amount of budget users by opening firms by falsifying documents, spending money on all of us, getting at the lowest possible interest, so using it, without any intentional control. And do you know who was doing that part of the job, who was going to get the loan, who was going to do the deliberate control? Small and medium-sized enterprises agency. This Agency for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, with strong opposition from the SNS and the MP group 'Forward, Serbia', has been shut down and drowned here in some new regional national organisation just so as not to know the effects of its work, i.e. what abuses have all taken place in the Small and Medium Enterprises Agency. And now, under the heading "believe it or not," the minister and the people around him say -- no, it's not going to change anything, only 3% is so abused, it's going to continue to split the credit the same way. But you know who's going to do the control of the use of those funds? National Employment Service, with the help of the police. Here, to cross this home, because this is the expression of my Christian impotence and the impotence of professionals economists, that the business of the bank, the purpose control of credit, the verification of the credit and the data available to the MUP and all other organisations, you do it through the National Employment Service. What nonsense you're bringing back to the economy, the way the state shows itself as an alleged mother, a stepmom, and in fact it creates the ways of money abuse, it's just caricature. I'm not someone who's exaggerating in these grades. Here, in the last issue of Economist, read the most accurate data on the abuse of start-up loans and those responsible for the job, and I say it's measured by billions of dinars. Why did I bring the story of a member of the Governor's Council down to the story of the abuse and non-control of the banking sector? Because that red thread, which slips through a rope that narrows the neck of a Serb debtor, because he always gets hurt, at one end it's called "Ces Mekon", and on the other end of the G17. In all the institutions that decided on money, sold, bought, spent, and were not accounted for by the two organisations, one of which was Ces Mekon, the director of the Privatisation Agency, current prime minister, finance minister, member of the Board of Governors, the other members of the Board of Governors, the president we elect, and many of those who have decided on how we will live, which the banks will be put out, how much the loans will cost, how we will grow the rates of credit, how we will return the car to the Leasing and all that the banks decide on our daily life. All he didn't ask himself about was "Ces Mekon," he wondered G17, and here's how it went, sometimes each other, and sometimes together, agreeing on their behalf, and at the expense of the citizens. If there was a bankruptcy for the state, it would have been over us long ago. Not only because the debt we set fire to is 80% by the IMF's estimates, but because the National Bank is now only dealing with whether, when and how they can repay foreign loans they've already taken. Because it's a basic business she deals with, not by law defined, not by the one for which there is NBS as a sui generis institution outside the interest of the people, or independence misunderstood, but because those who sit in the Council and those whom we choose today are not people who share the fate of everyone else when they decide on the reference interest, on the debts of the economy, on the need to dissipate it and to prohibit the state from competing with the economy to take credits with the banks and that citizens can take loans not for the naked survival, but to start some business or to raise housing loans. Whether or not that red thread, which at one end has Ces Mekon, and on the other hand, G17, and all those innovators in the financial area will be able to do something better for all of us, I have a right to doubt. If the state, as the most responsible for the implementation of financial discipline, does absolutely nothing for the control of budget funds, but rather, as someone everyone sees, the most contributes to non-discipline by creating the order of payment not according to the time of creation, what the Law on Bonds requires or any other known objective criteria, but says – I will pay Mickey, tomorrow Peri, and the day after that, Janko, without any criteria, the state creates conditions for corruption. Then we here have a story about who and how and why he owes it to the Roads, who and how he owes it to the contractors, how much local self-government is in charge of us, that our cities are over-indebted... How many tax revenues did the town of Kragujevac deny its citizens by giving the Fiat a third year of much for free? These remain questions without an answer, which no individual can answer, even if he was brilliant, but the state by its laws, by its institutional behaviour. Companies are in such conditions, and it's a business for this merger government and the National Bank, agreed to trade with each other, but not to pay each other. Why are they doing this? The one who pays, counts on inflation to reduce the value of his obligation, and the one who sells, calculates that he will be so late with the payment that he already adds all those late payment costs to the price. And then, my dear gentlemen, in Serbia, all theories, monetary, inflationary, about the amount of money in circulation, M1 and M2, and anything that's in college, school or in life that we've managed to learn and that, watching and sharing life with citizens, we try to understand. This must be understood by people who have a foothold in both the National Bank and the Government, that inflation here is not only a monetary phenomenon, as an excessive printing of money, but primarily a reflection of the financial indiscipline that the state promotes. In order for the state to be able to clear up with these phenomena, it must first of all measure its deficit and not only increase it to new obligations, but at the same time it approves this capable very large National Bank and its Council that they do not pay interest on the funds it has, that we do not know where foreign reserves are held, that we do not know how much we have earned, that in 2010, we are passing a law granting approval to the governor to open accounts abroad so that he can interest those foreign reserves... And you have to admit that I'm not an opposition man, but a logic man who asks if anyone who has been a member of the Board of Governors since 2003 has the obligation to speak of such things at least somewhere or is a sacred conspiracy and secret silence most important to those who share good benefits, often in conflict of interest, according to the laws that we have adopted here. The only thing citizens know is that the state is never neutral, neither when it proposes such people, nor when it draws up these lists of debtors to whom it pays beyond order, but by completely other criteria, nor when it is a role model of financial indiscipline, but even when, beyond every measure and order, it is in debt to celebrate it even as its successes. In addition to the basic question, will the red thread 'Ces Macon' and G17 once be interrupted and the work of these people will be directed in the interests of the state, where they will not lose their budget and receive everyone, I am asking the expert who could really answer it – is it also necessary for anyone to come to this country with this much speculative money, so many exchanges invested in repo paper that the National Bank has simulated monetary policy by paying huge interest above inflation, canceling their capital and demanding that its budget compensates for these losses? Whether a policy will continue in which we will fill the budget and spend it on the chosen one, calling into question our sound logic and mind whether we really understand what they are doing on behalf of us, and against us – these are questions for the members of the Council. Whether the Board of Governors will advise the governor who was a member of the Council or will occasionally come to this assembly, where we have not re-arranged the Rules of Procedure, and will be voted upon tomorrow, the obligation to present the report of the regulatory bodies not only on the Committee and the narrow circle of us who are members of the Finance Committee, but here, for this speaker, to let citizens hear the effects of those we choose today and against whom we speak this way and vigorously, bearing in mind what we have lost and as long as we have come and I am not sure that we as Parliament have done all that we have done. I will, indeed, give my voice to the choice of every body where a man does not try to replace an institution. Because people change, institutions have to exist. Governments change, coalitions change, but if we don't build serious institutions as a state, starting with the one we're sitting in, there's no saving us. And the bankruptcy of the state is not yet fabricated, and let it be a comfort to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43774	Thank you. National MP Zoran Krasic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43775	Mrs. Djukić Dejanović, I would suggest to you, you do not have to answer immediately, you can inform Veljko Odalovic and the professional service, but there used to be an institute in this building, and it was called speech authorisation. So when the MP finishes his speech, his speech awaits him in his office and he signs it, authorises his speech, does some other things. I'm telling you this because seven months ago, the director of the Privatisation Agency called me for a speech in the Assembly, where I pointed out some abuses with these funds, and from what we heard, 20 days ago, these people were arrested. A year and a half ago, it is a pity that Radojka is missing, but it can be said several years ago, the SRS was a harsh critic of the uncontrollable borrowing of the Republic of Serbia. So if there's something going on with the delay, you should know who warned you on time. But to get back to this point on the agenda. You see, I could ask Mr. Zivkovic for compensation now. Here's what Mr. Zivkovic says: "More than a year ago, the bank also made donations in dinars, because they earned interest from government records, and in euros, because they turned that profit into foreign currency. In the last nine months, however, bank investment has dropped in both state records and repo operations of the National Bank of Serbia. I believe that this was the most affected by a sharp reduction in the reference rate of the National Bank of Serbia." That is said Bosko Zivkovic, a candidate for the president of the National Bank of Serbia Council, and adds that "the state now has no opportunity for a good move". This is his statement published in the bulletin of macroeconomic analysis and trends. Don't be surprised, it's 7.7.2010. Almost all of 2009 I talked about exactly how ours, not ours, but your respective politicians in power, respecting the Vienna Agreement, made it possible for banks to make that profit in 2009 too, and since they couldn't make that profit in business with economy and citizenship, then, through this state record policy, every citizen practically made it possible for banks to earn interest. And that's what Mr. Bosko Zivkovic, your candidate for the National Bank Governor's Council and economic adviser to Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic said. So that's where we agree. That's a good thing, because July 7th of this year, the candidate for president of the National Bank of Serbia's Board of Governors presented something that can be said to be realistic. But let's get back to running for office. Of course, I am neither authorized nor intend to enter the academic and professional knowledge of Mr. Bosko Zivkovic, and, please, in that part, I will not say anything because I am not authorized to do so, nor could I say anything in a good way about it. I even have to say that I've heard that his lectures often include his fellow professors from the Faculty, which suggests that he is an expert in the financial market. For the sake of the public, the financial market is when you give you a hundred dinars, and then I don't know how much time you take 110 dinars, and then you give 110 dinars... It's that money store. The man is an expert in money trade. I get the impression there's a little bit of genetics here, because it's originally from Pljevlja and the one you've been chasing is from there, so probably that locality with some waterways suggests the ability to manipulate money. Well, that's another topic now. That'll make Ivica Dacic a little bit more involved. You see, it is said in a statement (July 12th 2010, and there is no reason not to believe) – Professor Milojko Arsic refused to accept the ruling coalition's invitation and become the first man of the National Bank of Serbia's National Bank Council because of business plans. So you had a better candidate. But what happens next? Says -- government officials spoke to Professor Bosko Zivkovic at the end of last week, who in principle accepted the post of President of the National Bank of Serbia's Board of Governors. So, after all, the government is the initiator and creator, not the ZES parliamentary group. Just to be clear, I can't object to anything. Of course, I'm not going to title these things right now, but the interesting thing is that he's a member of the Centre for Liberal Democratic Studies. I'm not sure he's very close to the G17 plus group, but I'll talk about it later. I would draw your attention to a text published in 2004, where at the time the National Bank of Serbia Council announced that Bosko Zivkovic was not a member of the council, nor a member of the Securities Commission at the time of the decision on the third emissions of the National Savings Bank. I remind you that in 2004, there was also a survey committee that examined how the National Savings Bank came into existence, and later it was already known. So Mr. Šoškić was also founded suspiciously, as though he were a member, or president of the Securities Commission. I would also like to draw your attention to a statement by Mr. Bosko Zivkovic since April of this year. Listen very carefully, he says -- a professor of the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade and a member of Prime Minister Bosko Zivkovic's Economic Council believes that one of the solutions that would reduce the discretionary power of the governor would be good, but should take into account the rusty tradition in Serbia. He knows about the rusty tradition in Serbia, because in 2003 he jumped into the National Bank of Serbia, which could lead to similar people being elected to the Council membership. You see, he's pointing to "likeness" this April of this year. When you say "likeness," you usually think of a political one. However, there is no political resemblance here, it is put first. There is an interesting resemblance here, because in our world of finance, in our world of the Securities Commission, in our world of insurance, in our world, the National Bank of Serbia circulates the same people who have unbreakable ties to everything called privatisation in the Republic of Serbia. What's he talking about now? This, in his view, could be ignored if a change was imposed per member of the Council each year, which would make it possible for the current political option to put into that body a man who suits them (see, he has all been well announced), but at the same time reduces the likelihood that the government unexpectedly shifts members of the Council to bring in its people. I remind you that in 2003-2004, when the concept of the National Bank of Serbia came to life, you presented even one statistician, mathematician as an economic expert. However, he offered himself to me as a man who could help me determine exactly how much new power she had stolen in 2001. Mladen Kovacevic. But it doesn't matter, he changes parties, he's also with Vuk Draskovic, etc. Mr. Zivkovic is a member of the Centre for Liberal Democratic Studies. It's that Mijatovic, as I see it; it's yours, from the Democratic Party. What's interesting about his career? It is said this way - from 2001 to 2004, he served as Assistant Minister for Privatisation of the Government of Serbia (i.e. this Bosko was with Vlahovic, Mrs Djukic Dejanovic), the president of the Federal Commission on Securities and Financial Market and a member of the National Bank of Serbia's National Bank Council in the first meeting. He was a member of the Working Party for the Construction of the Law on the Market of Papers in 2001, the Law on Investment Funds 2001, the Law on Download (please remember "Knjiza Miloša", and there he was in some way involved), the Law on Business Companies in 2004, and in 2007, he was elected, as an independent member, to the Management Board of the Commercial Bank. So, these G17s have a sharp competition in Mr. Zivkovic, because he's thinking about the system too – where the money is. I also have his (although not his, he signed a single position as President of the Commission) assessment of the situation and the Commission's views on the securities market. So it wasn't something new that hit us, so Mr. Zivkovic came. Now let's remember in 2003, when Mrs. Kori Udovici was elected governor, the first governor of the National Bank of Serbia, because then the operation of continuity failed. Remember that already at that time, the governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia felt, then Mladjan Dinkic, that when a new law was passed on to the NBS, he only needed to cross over, to change his plate, that he was no longer the governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia but the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. I remind you of the period when it was, "Easy's a little nervous." Remember, Novakovic, when you made those charts? And you weren't then? Okay. They made charts, so "Lutra," so you know everything -- who, what, how, so -- "I'm not coming to your funeral," remember that. You may not remember, but I am obliged to remind you. Because somehow, that kind of authorization is necessary. It's hard to talk about a happy future if we don't remember something that happened a few days ago. It's not like we're going to forget what happened a few days ago, so we're going to hold sessions like Kalimer yesterday. You know, it's not working. You see, Mrs. Kori Udovicki (now to tell you how our governors behave), at a time when she was elected, on the question of journalists commenting on Prime Minister Zivkovic's announcement (and imagine that Zivkovic was prime minister) that by the end of the year it should be worth about 70 dinars (by the end of 2003) said these are not issues to be addressed by the prime minister. You can see that women show greater signs of masculinity than these men who are in office. You see what is further said in the media – and then, in 2003, Bosko Zivkovic was proposed for the NBS Council, and he was president of the Securities Commission. I also have this joint press-clipping of yours, here are Janjusevic and Kolesar, not to remind you. But what is very important is that Mr. Bosko Zivkovic was at the Ministry of Privatisation when he was Vlahovic. That's when that billboard "Start for Assets", remember, the whole of Serbia was full of those billboards, and the younger one was playing those commercials -- all the way to licking cars, vacations, kids, abroad, schooling... Beauty, no matter how you don't accept it, is within your reach, just to grab it like this. You see, "Serbian privatisation minister Aleksandar Vlahovic will be heard in the United States during a visit to the Serbian government from July 24th to July 30th (that is, in 2003, just so you know) because of the illegality in the tenders for privatisation of three enterprises, which were attended by the US firm St Michael... '"Miodrag Obradovic said. That's where you should have Bosko Zivkovic in mind. Now, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, for you very interestingly, since it concerns not specifically your profession, but your status in the profession. You see, this is a proposal for a choice to call a doctor, or an extraordinary professor. It's done this year. The commission consists of: Dr Bosko Zivkovic, a regular professor of the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade, Dr Djordje Djukić (probably you know him from the SPS, he was once a federal MP and was really an expert in monetary policy, I have no objection; if you had suggested him, you would have questioned my opposition status, be safe) and Dr Bozidar Raicevic, a regular professor, but retired. You see, they were a committee to prepare the referendums and the report and they put together their report on 27 January, and the point of the report is that they suggest that Dejan Soskic be elected as an extraordinary professor. And now Dejan Šoškovic, governor, and his mentor, President of the Board of Governors of the NBS. What a date, a little more like nepotism. It's like they're identical. You see how the same nomenclature revolves in the area of finance. You can from DS and parties that make up the power (126-127 votes) to interpret it however you want, but be sure, you're not wondering anything. All you have to do is vote and cover yourself with some titles, titles... This, I don't know, ends up in America, speaks 16-17 languages fluently, understands finance... Well, you know how, the bank makes three banks, etc. And you heard him change his statements, what he said in April, when he's not a candidate, he's expecting, and in July, when he says what opportunities are. So, the economic adviser to his friend from Ces Macon, the Prime Minister used to work at that firm. Now, is there a red, yellow... I think the yellow thread is much more important here than the 17-string one. And now that I read you what those Timers wrote in 2003... Not now, I'm going to skip this between Djelic and these, but I need to point out the methodology, how to remove people who bother you. You see, in 2003, Aleksandar Radovic was removed. Do you remember that? Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, that's the one that was stalking you, and he was stalking you in 2001, he was head of the IRS, you know, and he was on that persecution team. Next, Dejan Popovic, a 1991 tax system maker, which was not bad. He came back in 2001 to fix this. And he was wiped out in 2003. Vladan Begovic leaves his job only one day after some "sugar affair" papers were published in the paper. That's what the Democratic Party does. Further, Dimitrije Vukcevic, NIS – removed. Kori Udovici was inserted. I don't want to read you her biography of what she's all about. It was removed at one point and Mladjan Dinkic, must be said. So then Aleksandar Vlahovic delayed the privatisation of some companies, so he made some arrangements; and then we have a report by Mladjan Dinkic on the movement of foreign reserves in 2002, what was going on; so Bosko Zivkovic was a candidate for a member of the Monetary Council, today the head of the Securities Commission... So the same group of people is spinning. They have the exclusive right to know what money is worth, and you do, I must say, some irrelevant things – you chase down the streets of chickens and those who take pâtés. The world of finance in Serbia is not run by any man who thinks about the people and the state and the economy of this country. Now I could tell you about the foreign reserve situation, but what's most important for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is that you pay, that you enrich foreign banks. The economy is given 60% credit, 35% to the citizens. Citizens pay two to three times the cost of the interest rate compared to the economy and two to three times are better paid than the economy. What's the duty? I probably won't have time, I'll get a warning. They are over-indebted and citizens, as it is impossible in the over-indebted state not to over-indebted citizens. Consumer credits are growing, loans to those who need to enable a new debt to return some credit due to previous debt. That means, dear citizens -- when you see 127 votes uniquely, and there's no critical insight into who's hiding behind those 127 votes, something bad and black is written.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43776	We move to a debate on the agenda of the MPs according to the application for a word. The word has the People's MP Lidija Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43777	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are having a debate on the election of President of the Council of Governors of the NBS. Recently, the National Assembly adopted amendments to the National Bank Act. These changes included the Board of Governors, in addition to the jobs he normally performed, entrusted and the jobs for which it was justified to improve its role in the supervision of the business of the NBS. In addition to the adoption of a financial plan, the adoption of financial reports, the election of an external auditor, the future Council will adopt statutes, establish a dinar course regime with the consent of the Government, consider the reports of the external auditor and follow-up of his recommendations, monitor the financial reporting system, manage risks and internal controls, assess whether the accounting policies and procedures adopted in the NBS are appropriate, adopt an annual plan on the implementation of the internal audit, consider a periodic report on the conduct of an internal audit, monitor the implementation of internal audit and compliance of the business in the NBS and bring forward a development strategy and monitor its implementation. Amendments to the law exclude the confirmation of the Statutes of the NBS by the National Assembly. Also, the future NBS will not deliver a financial plan for next year to the National Assembly. What is important is to point out that the establishment of a dinar course regime with the consent of the government is given to the Council. This particular issue was the problem that led to the dissuasion of the views of the former governor and representative of the government. While the official reason for the resignation is given personal reasons, it should be recalled that some media have directly accused Mr Jelasic as the sole culprit for the dinar's fall, although its stabilisation has been spent more than a billion euros in foreign exchange reserves since the beginning of the year. In order to achieve and maintain price stability, the NBS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to create a legal and institutional framework for the implementation of monetary policy that contributes to macroeconomic stability and economic growth, have concluded an inflation target agreement. In order to implement this monetary strategy, the main instrument is the reference rate. Foreign exchange interventions are a secondary instrument that contributes to the achievement of the inflation target, once the potential for the effective impact of the reference interest rate on inflation is exhausted. The exchange rate channel is still the strongest channel through which inflation is affected. It is written in the Agreement that the NBS will apply foreign exchange interventions with the objectives of limiting excessive daily oscillation of the dinar course, but without accumulated pressure in the same direction over a longer period of time, to limit the risk of financial stability and to maintain an adequate level of foreign reserves. In the first half of the year, I said, a billion and a half euros were spent for this purpose, and there was pressure to spend even more. The former governor disagreed and left his post. When it was spoken here in the National Assembly about the election of a new governor, there remained an unknown to what his intentions were on this matter. Now, when we talk about the election of President of the Board of Governors of the NBS, in whose jurisdiction now, following amendments to the Law on the National Bank, the establishment of a dinar course regime, we must point out that someone who was a consultant, a scientific associate at Ces Mekon, will be elected to the current Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic for seven years. In the team of this house, the leading micro-economicist was Mirko Cvetkovic, and he was accompanied by a team of economists who still dominates the professional public: Bosko Zivkovic, Danica Popović, Dijana Dragutinović (or else Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic's successor at the Ministry of Finance), several others, as well as outside associate Bozidar Djelic. In addition to working together in "Ces Mekon" and their current connection, discussed by Mr Radojko Obradovic, as prime minister and member of the Economic Council, several more data from the biography of Mirko Cvetkovic and Professor Bosko Zivkovic coincide. In the biography of the current prime minister, we see that since January 2001, Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic's government has worked as deputy minister at the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation, and in the biography of Mr Zivkovic, which we have received, at the same time, he was in the same ministry as the assistant minister for the development of financial markets. Then Mr. Cvetkovic was the director of the Agency for Privatisation of the Republic of Serbia between 2003 and 2004, while Mr. Zivkovic was the chairman of the Securities Commission and the financial markets and member of the NBS Council at the time. Now I'm going to get some information on Ces Macon and the consultant team. First, I'll be back in 2003. Mirko Cvetkovic, director of the Privatisation Agency, was also, according to court records, the CEO of Ces Mekon, who is doing the procedural value of the assets, the economic and financial audit of the business, as well as other financial management jobs. In the first set of accelerated auction privatisations for about a thousand companies, the value assessment was just "Ces Mekon", for which about two million dollars were paid to this company, whose executive director Mirko Cvetkovic. In doing so, this job "Ces Mekon" did not win in competition with others, because a tender for selecting an auditory house that will evaluate companies that are going to fast auction sales has not been called up. Ces Mekon came from a consulting company, Mekon, founded in 1989 by Zvonimir Nikezic. This is important because he is Dusan Nikezic's father, and Dusan was the assistant director of Mirko Cvetkovic's agency. At a time when Mirko Cvetkovic was the director of the Privatisation Agency, he was linked to the controversial privatisations of the company "Sema" from Belgrade and the Zemun Veterinary Institute. In both cases, the consulting firm Ces Mekon, whose CEO he was, appeared as the Agency's assessor or even sided with the buyer. In the event of the privatisation of the company, Ces Mekon was hired by the Privatisation Agency to assess the company's value. The "Seme", which has 19,702 square meters of business space, was sold for the then 132 million dinars, which means that the square was worth 6,669 dinars or approximately 100 euros. In the Anti-Corruption Council, they were then asking the government why the firm that Ces Mekon rated as an average sold as a company in which it is only worth business space, or at the price that applies to the companies that are before bankruptcy. The company was bought by Astra Simit, who built a studio where Millionaire was filmed in warehouses. The role of this consulting firm run by Cvetkovic is also significant in the disputed privatisation of the Veterinary Institute in Zemun. An explanation has been asked here by the Council of Government whether Ces Mekon has been given representation on the basis of an open tender. They voiced suspicion that there is a conflict of interest because there is a link between the Agency's director, as executive director and partner at Ces Mekon, and between the owner of the company, Dusan Nikezic, whose son is the deputy director of the Privatisation Agency. By the way, "Ces Mekon" did many privatisations, including "Danubius" from Novi Sad in 2006, "Belgrade film" in 2007, "Mlekara Shabac" in 2004, "Draj" in 2006, "Frikom" in 2003. It is also interesting to privatise "Hempro" from Belgrade. Minority shareholders, mostly pensioners of the company, claimed that she with 2,744 squares owned by an auction for only 2.32m euros, as a consultant, Ces Mekon, during the process, defused, and the Privatisation Agency presented non-existent debts. When we look at all these facts that speak about what the Ces Mekona expert team was doing, we in the SRS suspect that members of that same team will be working at the National Bank of Serbia so that it is independent in its decisions, especially when we see that as the chairman of the National Bank Council, whose jurisdiction will be to determine the regime of the dinar course, a close associate of Serbian Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, and from Ces Mekon and then the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation, is elected in relation to the current position of prime minister and member of his economic council. It's time for the economic crisis, the revenue from privatisation is almost gone at all because everything worth selling out, and the Serbian government is completely uncoordinated attitudes where it goes on. No wonder, because there's a lot of interest in different powerful lobbies. On the one hand, advocates are spending foreign reserves to defend the course. These are the interests of the import lobby, which is very powerful in Serbia. On the other hand, they're advocates of a more flexible course. Opposite interests, neither of them want to look at the potential risks. The only thing that matters is whose influence on the government is stronger. The new governor, when he was elected, didn't show up at the Assembly because it made no commitment to him, but we were able to get through the media to some of his statements regarding the course of the dinar. "The recipes for the defence of dinars are relatively simple, but they are not easy to implement. We must forget the ambition to seek bread without a distraction and stop living on faith, i.e. at the expense of previous and future generations. We all have to do more. Serbia must produce and export more and become a country of smart regulations that withdraw economic activity. That is how conditions are created for macroeconomic stability, even if our currency becomes strong as a result of our strong economy," said Mr. Soskovic, avoiding a direct answer to the question that the dinar course is real. "It is realistic that the course that brings the country's external economic relations to a balance and the one that, ultimately, sets the market," the current governor concluded. As far as the government is concerned, it sees as the best way out of the crisis the programmes for subsidising loans to the economy and citizens. In 2010, 149,143 claims worth 1.47 billion euros were received and 118,542 loans worth 1.2 billion euros were granted. These are data from the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. Companies submitted 3,942 claims for liquidity loans with a currency clause, and a 3,061 request of 26.9.7m euros was granted, while dinar liquidity loans were granted 6,607, worth 461.2m euros. The former governor's position, which he made two days ago, is that the state should gradually withdraw from subsidising loans to businesses and citizens, and the government has also been announced for new subsidized loans that would increase consumption. There have also been announcements that there will be a defreezing of salaries and pensions, however, IMF recommendations are different. The permanent representative of this fund in Belgrade, Bogdan Lisovolik, made recommendations on July 21st to pay in the public sector and pensions should not be defrosted until the end of the arrangement with the IMF by April 2011, as this would lead to the creation of a larger budget deficit. He stressed that the challenges facing Serbia -- the high debt of the economy, the increase in total external debt and lack of trust in the domestic currency. Speaking of Serbia's debt, it is important to note that, according to the finance ministry, the public debt reached 10.54 billion euros in late May this year, which is 31.5% of gross domestic product. That's a third of the value we all produce as taxpayers. At the end of 2008, Serbia's public debt was 8.78 billion euros, which was 25.6% of GDP. "This growth could jeopardise economic activity," former Governor Jelasic said in early June this year. When someone was part of the team and now they're not, he's free to say what he wouldn't otherwise have remained part of the team, and he should be trusted because he was at the source of the information. I will complete this presentation with another statement by former NBS governor, who says - the extension of the IMF arrangement is desirable for Serbia because the government is entering the second half and preparing for elections, when, as a rule, populist measures are being adopted. There is no law that prohibits the government from changing what has been done for years because of political interests overnight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43778	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43779	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we're going to have a round-up system in the country tomorrow. A few weeks ago, we discussed amendments to the NBS Act. We also have a proposal from the President of the Republic of Serbia who will be governor of the NBS and now, at this session, we are discussing the election of President of the Council. Tomorrow's voter day, so we'll finally round up that financial continent. However, I am somewhat surprised by the relationship of the ruling majority with everything that is happening now in the Assembly, because by electing governors and governors of the Board of Governors, we are setting up functionaries of the National Bank, who literally controls everyone in the state. The responsibilities and influence of the National Bank on the overall economic and financial system in the country are much greater than the responsibilities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. As important as that is, here we go from one simple example. No modern society can develop without the banking sector. And our banking sector is small, underdeveloped and monopoly. Since the Serbian banks were extinguished by the decision of the then governor, now Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Mladjan Dinkic, Serbia does not have its own banking sector. And precisely because we don't have our own banking sector, we today, when most countries come out of the global economic crisis, continue, but not in the sense that we have reached the peak of the economic crisis, but that level of crisis is increasing from day to day. No business activity can be normal and developed with the banking sector that we have today, and I can say that our banking sector is green. Just look at the interest that banks give to businesses and citizens. The economy can't get a single loan below 15% a year with a foreign exchange clause. Let some financial expert, here's the future president of the Council and governor of the National Bank convince me, to explain to me how the company can make such a loan, to expand business, to develop, to increase the number of employees. The number of employees depends on how much the transfer funds from the Republika Srpska budget to the PIO Fund and the Health Insurance Fund will be. Here's an example of how everything is controlled by the National Bank. Unfortunately, that's right. There's no progress in such companies. It will focus its full profit on the banking sector. They'll give up their own capital just so they can repay their loans and pay such interest. Not to count the foreign exchange risk - 15%. Calculate what the euro was last year at this time. It was about 92 dinars, now it's 105, almost 106 dinars. So 17% plus 15% is 32%. How do you think one company survives under such conditions? We want to talk about dinar loans? It's almost impossible to get them without a 22-28% interest. How do you think companies and our businesses are developing? How do we increase the number of employees? How can citizens have a better standard of living? Who's to blame? Those who have managed the financial sector so far will continue after this election. No one can convince me that Mladjan Dinkic here is completely sinless and innocent. On the contrary, he is one of the most responsible for all that is happening here and has been rewarded by your votes, gentlemen of the assembly majority, to be vice-president of the government, only to conclude such a coalition. We've been destroyed by full pay traffic. We destroyed something that all European and world institutions have told us is the best and most modern in the world, best organized, at the lowest cost. Why? So that privileged banks can finally enter the market. Count how many real banks we have. Not these satellites and daughter-banks that were opened under other names just to look like we have some banking sector. In all of Serbia, we have four or five banks. They control everything here, absolutely everything, from three four countries. We can open and expand the banking market, give the banks permission, but where will these banks be? On the periphery of cities? No, all the exclusive business space, the most expensive business space in Serbia, starting with Belgrade and even inside, have already been taken by the banks. With an increase in the number of banks, of course we can affect the interest the banks give and the amount of money we have on the market. And this is how we allow banks to blackmail the state and no one can. In addition to such a monopoly position for which the National Bank is responsible, the National Bank is responsible... A lot of people are going to say it suits the importers, the exporters, this and that. The rate of a dinar that is not stable does not correspond to anyone, and do not let us fool ourselves about it and get carried away. It's no good for the importers, it's no good for the exporters. Because they're also importing a large amount of repromaterials and energy. So their business depends on the course of the dinars. What's the matter with the dinar course? The biggest problem is the country, i.e. the deficit budget, which must be financed by funds from banks, on the one hand. On the other hand, the problem is in the National Bank, because it has repeatedly destabilised the financial market in Serbia. Here's the last example, the NBS has been all along claiming it's not the one who's supposed to be doing the trading jobs. I couldn't agree more. It should only be there as a factor which, in certain situations and certain disorders, will intervene with the purchase or sale of foreign exchanges. What happens at the end of the year? It enters Serbia as an IMF loan of 450m euros. That money ends up in the National Bank account. The NBS credits the government, or the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and pays the corresponding dinar equivalent. That money was found on the financial market, and that's when our troubles with the exchange rate began. On the foreign exchange market, we had no coverage of 450m euros. In Serbia, it is enough 50m euros to destabilize the whole market, and we have ten times the amount. The NBS has been silent and letting foreign exchange rates rise for weeks, and when all these conditions have been met, both psychologically and in banks and in economy and in the population, then it starts with interventions on the foreign exchange market. To make things worse, because of the loans he's taking the budget, he's lowering the reference interest rate, so it looks like he's watering gas on fire. We're putting out a gas fire. Well, that's what the National Bank's been doing for the past few months. If you look at some of your experts who often comment on the means of public information about what's going on with our foreign exchange market and what's supposed to be the disturbances, and I have reason to say it's supposed to be and that I doubt it's true, because the offer of foreign exchanges is far less than demand... Let's do some analysis. Last year, the euro and exchange rates were not only stable, but also in decline. What happened in the last year? The conditions under which the world economy was operating were far worse than it is now, the flow of money in Serbia was far lower than it is now, and we have a chronic, constant shortage of foreign exchanges on the market. Who's responsible for that? That question could be answered by the NBS, but no one's been answering for a month. Many MPs seek, but no one answers, no government, no outgoing governor. I hope that the new governor will give us the final answer to that question – which banks are buying foreign exchanges, and where are these foreign exchanges headed? That's the problem. Is this a financial situation speculative in order to create extraprofits that need to earn banks, most of them, and the damage should be paid by citizens, or are there really legitimate reasons? Just because the NBS is silent, I have reason to suspect that this is a simple speculation, nothing more. The National Bank cannot be subordinated to the banking sector. It is she who must prevent manipulation and abuse of the banking sector. Everyone's talking about the independence of the NBS. I agree that the National Bank should be independent, but until what point, to what limit? To the point where he stops doing his job for who he exists. They say – its primary goal is to keep inflation under control, so the Republic Statistics Institute and the NBS (even it deals with their statistics) claim that inflation is under control. It's just a matter of time before it stops. Nothing in Serbia can be controlled when domestic currency loses 15 per cent of its value in less than a year. He can't. First, energy costs increase, hence food production, and then living standards. And then someone will go out and say, "Inflation is only six or seven percent." For what? On cars, stoves, refrigerators, freezers, TV sets. Is that a standard of living? Is that what people eat? Is that what they dress like? And everything is fine, Serbia is a regulated country, an orderly society with a legal and financial system. And then look at the real results of that financial system. It's the National Bank that controls everything in the state, and it's up to it. I hope so, but I also doubt that the new governor and new members of the Council and the President of the Council will be able to get into the problem of solving all these problems at all. The only thing we can do, the only thing we would be right to do, is to finally open the banking market in Serbia as much as possible, to get bigger banks, financially stronger, to put the interest finally under control. If you can't market, you can put it at least administratively. And like this, even if we cut interest rates in an administrative way for 40 or 50 percent, banks would still make more income than they do in countries where they come from. Why isn't that how it's done? Why didn't it work like that before? We'll see the answer in about six months and one day, or 184 days, when we find out which bank the current outgoing governor is going to be. Then we'll know which financial sector and which financial lobby he worked for. In addition, amendments to the National Bank Act one part of financial life are passed on to the government's jurisdiction, i.e. the Ministry of Finance, which is external payment traffic. Neither the government nor the Ministry of Finance have mechanisms and instruments to control the external payment traffic. Only the NBS can do that. Not a penny, not a euro, not a dollar, not to get in or out of our payment traffic until the NBS approves it. He can't. It's impossible. With that change, I think the outgoing governor made and paved the way for the banking sector to create even more speculation here on the market. They don't care about us and what we're discussing here for both the citizens of Serbia and our economy. The most important thing for them is to make extra profit, and when they get out and milk everything they can out of this economy, they're gonna shut down the joints, which aren't theirs, but they're leased, and they're out of here. I believe then some ministers will leave the country. And I hope that the next elections, I'm absolutely sure -- extraordinary, to be before that happens, to finally have some others come, to show some others that they can rule Serbia, to give Serbia fair authority, which will first think about citizens, and then about banks, then about governors, then speculators. And the prosecutor will have to think first of all about the speculators and bankers who are doing business in Serbia today.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43780	Thank you. National MP Vladan Jeremic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43781	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, what could be called or located by some fundamental problem in the SRS may be in a statement a few days ago, when only candidate for the new governor, Dejan Šoškic, announced that there will be no change in the conduct of the NBS policy so far if he is elected to this significant function, and this will, in turn, experience his epilogue tomorrow. On the one hand, it can be understandable if he is indeed elected or given the fact that he will come to this new post as President of the NBS Council, so that in any case he has quite a share in what has been done so far, i.e. in the results of this and how important financial institutions. On the other hand, if the future governor really thinks he is continuing the policy that has been led over the past few years, led by all his predecessors in this place, this means that virtually neither the citizens nor the economy of this Serbia can hope for any improvement in this regard. Not entering the personal domain of Bosko Zivkovic, candidate for President of the NBS Council, which was discussed in more detail by counterpart Krasic and fellow member Dimitrijevic, I would like to take this opportunity to point out once again what we think is an important problem, as regards the functioning of the NBS, which is something that will certainly be within the scope of future President-in-Office of the NBS Board. It's about the problem of the lack of rationality of the NBS foreign reserve policy, a policy that has been absolutely covered in secret over the past period. Because, apart from the fact that over the past months, well years, we have been practically bombed by information that NBS foreign reserves have reached a record high level, which in recent times, obviously because of this successful defence course of dinars, and not anymore, the problem is that these foreign reserves are not held in the NBS Treasury, but, as one section of the professional public is known, they are mostly placed in the government bonds of others, and that is, by the rule of economically well-developed, not to say rich countries, which are practically covered by government budget deficits or are held in the form of deposits in the banks of the most developed countries. At the same time, thanks to this policy, which apparently is announced by future Governor Dejan Šoškovic, and according to everything that will also follow, the future President of the Council of Governors of NBS Bosko Zivkovic, with such a mildly said -- the irrational foreign reserve policy, we also have the fact that Serbia's external debt is practically growing and it is reaching a record high level, and the loans taken from other states, international financial institutions and large Western banks are of course at extremely unfavourable or very high interest rates and Serbia is faced with paying high interest on vault records that it emits to raise funds to cover the deficits of the state budget. Some official data on where and under what conditions the NBS foreign reserves are placed are of course not available to the general public. What is known is that these interest rates on these funds are indeed symbolic and are from 1 to 3 percent, so that our country in principle cannot, thanks to, say again – to this policy, count on a more significant contribution than a foreign exchange reserve. In any case, what is the problem is that this contribution is multiplely lower than the contributions made by, say, countries or financial institutions where Serbia is in debt by covering the deficit of the state budget. Thus, the accumulation of large amounts of foreign reserves and their placement into government bonds or deposits of banks of these, primarily Western countries, while at the same time borrowing among those where foreign exchange reserves are placed, has proved to be as devastating both for the economy and society in general, so an economically poorly developed country like Serbia. This is largely devastating in those countries that are leading the policy that Serbia is leading, and that is the policy of the so-called. a stable course of domestic money, and as far as it all went, we've been able to see for ourselves for the past few months, unfortunately. What are we going to get by electing a new governor of the NBS and selecting a new president of the Board of Governors of the NBS? If what I said at the beginning is that absolutely nothing will change in the policy that has been led over all these years, it is clear that this problem, which I wanted to point out on behalf of the SRS, will not be solved as it should be, above all, by placing these funds in raising the economy, or industrial production. Then one really simple and quite logical question arises – where in all this is an economic logic that should arise, that we finance, at a symbolic interest rate, the budget deficits of rich countries, while at the same time the same countries directly or through financial institutions approve loans at high interest rates, which we finance the deficit of our budget? So where is this economic logic that foreign exchange reserves are placed in deposits of Western banks, along with symbolic interest? These same money buy the vault records of our finance ministry or NBS records, which usually bear a high double-digit interest rate, or that they approve loans to Serbian citizens at such interest rates, which at the end of 2009, amounted to as much as 36% in short-term loans, thus making a huge profit using the citizens' financial assets and businesses of the Republic of Serbia. We in the SRS have pointed to an anomaly countless times. Of course, it would be much more rational if such a high foreign reserve policy were already under way, if one part were to be used to repay foreign loans, and at least those that the state had taken under the most unfavourable conditions, at least in part to reduce the huge foreign debt, or at least to pay in a timely manner all those liabilities on the external debt which, as of last calendar year, amounted to slightly less than three billion dollars, and one quarter of which practically fell to those regular and tightened interest, thus at least absorbing and avoiding the problem in some way. Therefore, given the importance of both the election and the governor and president of the National Bank Board, it is clear that one comprehensive reform, i.e. the preparation and design of a new model of economic growth in Serbia, is yet to come and that, for all of this, the important assumption of reform of the existing tax system in Serbia, which has so far been applied by the concept of economic growth. If some of the assumptions are true, if we really want to make some fundamental changes in this direction, and what it shows so far does not give hope, or it does not give optimism, it will show the time ahead, that is, this latest humanist solution proposed by the ruling coalition to parliament for adoption. What will benefit and will Serbia's citizens and economy benefit from such solutions, by continuing or changing the policy that has so far been led and by an economic model that has obviously not proved applicable when it comes to Serbia, will show the time ahead. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43782	MP Zoran Antic. He's not here. ) Mr. Dejan Mirovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43783	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter that is now ahead of us can be seen in the context of several events in this assembly, the appearance of a governor who has taught us some financial matters in a rather unserious way here, and has not given us any concrete answer to our questions about what specific objectives are, where foreign reserves are, as the esteemed colleague Jeremic said, what kind of relationship is and why talks with the IMF are confidential, and in this context the matter concerning the NBS Council of Governors can also be observed. It is clear that, under Article 23, the Council adopts the Statute on a proposal from the Executive Board, adopts the financial plan of the NBS, conducts supervision (which is particularly interesting) of the financial reporting system, risk management in the NBS... For us in the SRS, the most important position is 10 – it brings a strategy for the development of the NBS. We will not in advance suspect Mr. Zivkovic of having evil intentions, far from that, we believe that he is very professional and that he is one of the most famous professors at the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade. The following fact, however, raises suspicion. At a performance on March 12th 2009, he said it is necessary to reduce internal consumption, and above all to think about state wages and pensions. When you look at the letter of intent, signed by the governor, from 10 June 2010 and the previous letter of intent, since 3 December 2009, you will see that these are exactly the requirements of the IMF, or an institution that, in fact, runs the financial sector in the Republic of Serbia. So it's not about any banks that can't be named. These are Western banks, EU banks, which, in agreement with the IMF and other accompanying institutions, such as the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development or the European Investment Bank, have just led to the fact that in the Republic of Serbia, along with an infamous example of Moldova, the largest interest in Europe. This is scandalous, and the future President of the Council should pay attention and try to fight it, as Governor Jelasic, in resignation, has not shown a near intention to stand in the way of the monopolitical and I would use the term – interest-bearing behaviour. What is concrete is seen from the following data – according to official data from the US State Site, in 31.12.2008, interest in Germany was 5.9%, in France 8.3%, in Belgium 7.3%, in Britain, in the United States 5.9%. During the same period in Serbia, average interest was as high as 18%. How is this possible if the GDP of our country and these countries is compared, how is this possible if average personal incomes are compared? There is no other explanation but that it is one phenomenon called interest. This should stand in the way, and not, as the governor did when he was here, avoid the answer to the question of how it is possible that Mrs Draginja Djuric thus states that it is impossible to reduce interest in Serbia even though we all know that both euribor and Libor are at a minimum level. How is it possible that the secretary of the Association of Banks Mr. Dugalic also declares that no interest is being reduced? How is it possible in the Republic of Serbia in the midst of the economic crisis in 2009, the level of interest is increasing, while in all other countries it is decreasing? It is simply some data that shows that something is wrong with the banking sector in Serbia. It is particularly scandalous that the letter on the governor's intentions in 3.12.2009 "will liquidate the remaining state stake in banks in the Republic of Serbia". This doesn't make any economic sense if we know that Hipo Alpe Adria Bank is nationalized by the Republic of Austria. It doesn't make any sense if we know that in Russia in 2007, 45% of the assets were in the hands of foreign banks, and by the next year, the percentage rose to 54%, and so much the Russian state had a rise compared to 2007. Also, how is it possible for American banks to apply a type of nationalisation, for example, in the "Siti Group" in November 2008, how is it possible that the Fed approves $20 billion in aid to US banks, and in Serbia the opposite process is happening? As noted by a respected counterpart, Jeremic, we received a report signed by the chairman of the National Bank Council, which was then Dr Dejan Soskic, and on page 26 speaks in a very hidden and indirect manner about the state of the foreign currency reserves of the Republic of Serbia abroad. From these few sentences, we can't find out anything about foreign banks, more specifically, where the Western banks have foreign reserves, under which interest rates, only here states that they range from 1.25 to 3 percent. So, minimum interest rates. To do this, I will also give you a statement from the President of the International Monetary Fund, who criticised European banks for giving Greece so-called. aid in loans at 5% interest. It's just amazing that such important data is listed only, almost halfway through, one kind of hidden information, but when you look at the amendments to the law, you'll see that two information about the work of the NBS is a factual taboo topic. These are negotiations with the IMF and the state of the foreign reserve of the Republic of Serbia. As far as negotiations with the IMF are concerned, we can only say from a shrubbery statement that this delegation has been here for two weeks, that they have visited certain wine cellars and the like, which is completely unserious and I don't think it deserves any serious comment. We haven't even heard from the governor what was specifically negotiated with the IMF. We can only, based on the letter of intent, see that it is a kind of ultimatum that government, i.e. The prime minister, governor and finance minister sign every few months. In this sense, it cannot be said that there is optimism about Mr. Zivkovic, because it appears that, like his predecessors, as well as the previous governor, he will primarily represent the interests and attitudes of the IMF, the Western banks that apply the interest rates here, and will continue to be the sunflower of the Serbian economy and Serbian banking that are already in fact on the extremity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43784	The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43785	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if things were to go in the order in which they should go or how it should go, then I suppose after the Constitution, we should pass the National Bank Act, and then we should choose a new governor. But with us, it's all going kind of wrong. We bring a constitution that provides for something else in the NBS, and then we don't pass the NBS Act, but we wait for the government or individuals of the Government of Serbia to resign, he resigns, and then we pass the National Bank Act which, if the president or the president or those who operate this country so much as wants to elect the president on his proposal. And here we are today, as a result of all this, discussing the election of the President of the National Bank Governor Council, given that a few days ago we were discussing the governor himself of the National Bank. In the debate on the governor, we tried not to question Mr. Šoškovic's professional credibility and even his personal credibility, for which there really was no reason. Of course, we haven't missed it either to say that Mr. Šoškić has been in those public forums since you and other DOS parties came to power, and nothing in this country's economic and monetary policy has happened beyond his knowledge, if not more, and to all of this Mr. Šoškić, with respect for his professional credibility, shut his ears and eyes. We have today in monetary and other politics, when we talk about economics, what we have, but I repeat, we have refrained from contesting its credibility. The gentleman we're talking about today, we're also not going to be professionally questioning, but when it comes to his credibility, there really are two things that open up room for doubt. Mrs Lidija Dimitrijevic also spoke about these things, and Mr Krasic, of course. These two things, which are really making a problem, are the Securities Commission, on the one hand, and I'm going to say why, and "Ces Mecon". Since "Ces Mekon" is shorter, I'll say it first. The last thing we talked about in this assembly, as regards the attempt to manipulate and rob the name "Ces Mekon", Mr Nikezic, etc., Belgrade Fair, at the Privatisation Committee, we raised the issue and I hope that the opening of the issue has stopped the robbery or the criminal sale of the Belgrade Fair. That's what you DS know, and you voted on that committee, on our initiative, to open it up and start it. The advisor was Ces Mekon. The objective question is what is the credibility of people to sit in the most important and most important state institutions. It is neither a mockery nor a mockery nor the fact that the hall is now and at the time of the governor's election, almost empty. No bankruptcy manager is elected, President of the National Bank Council is elected. To get back to the Securities Committee. Has the mandate of the Securities Commission expired? What year? Why didn't the ruling majority choose a new Securities Commission? That's one question. Another question, which would be very interesting, and I'll give it to you as a well-intentioned suggestion of the SRS, would be nice to compare the property cards, since we don't have a value charter long ago. With what kind of property have people entered the Securities Committee and what are their property cards today, or, if they're out, what are they like after leaving the Securities Commission? It could inspire you and ask about these people what's going on and what's going on. Now people from such a world, without questioning their personal credibility again, or professional Mr. Bosko Zivkovic, should be presidents of the National Bank of Serbia Council. Let them be, you are responsible, 126 votes will be provided and you will choose, but the question is, what can we expect when the governor announces that in NBS politics nothing will change. It's dangerous. It is dangerous that there is no chance and way to ensure the independence of the National Bank, both functional and personal and financial, which you allegedly tried to secure through the adoption of a new law, because the government obviously has no intention of letting the National Bank be independent in every sense. When you see who's spinning there, it's all people, as Mr. Krasic said earlier, from the same financial circle. They don't let us have the back of the financial and the People's Bank and everything about this country's fiscal and monetary policies, and you have neither the courage nor the political will to resist them. Don't tell us that people who have absolutely created economic life in the last ten years have the credibility to be where they're supposed to be or not to have those who would be much better and more adequate in those places. Why am I saying this? These are the two documents that came into the assembly procedure – The Annual Account of the National Bank of Serbia for 2009 and Mrs Slavica Djukic Dejanovic The report on the business and results of work in monetary policy. Here's how many pages there are. Find me just one word, not a sentence, just the word "self-critism" most responsible in the National Bank of Serbia for everything they've done in the past year, to say that something was wrong, something was wrong, something was wrong, or to a certain challenge they couldn't answer. Everything's great, Disneyland, there's nothing wrong here. Look what's going on with the course. What is happening on the financial market in Serbia, which has not really been developed, which unfortunately is in our reach. Here we are, boasting about the stability of the banking sector. The banking sector in this country, which makes money and makes money, I just don't know under what conditions, couldn't be stable. He couldn't have been stable just where the unreasonable people were headed. What kind of interest we had today was about that word. What are the differences between interest on deposits and money from banks? The banking sector was successful. He was successful because he traded securities of value, or frameworks broadcast by this country. It's worth more to them than to place credits in public. You were trading in a state accident, and you made that accident by forming commissions, public agencies and various directorates that you didn't even know what they were paying for, and how they split up, so we from the SRS had to open the Kristo affair so that you could lower your wages to 163,000, so ask today what is the salary at the Deposit Insurance Agency. Ask what the salary is today in the Commission for the insurance of residential loans. Why are you in charge of the state, why are you indomitably in charge of public debt? You're withdrawing funds from abroad not for capital consumption, but to patch up budget gaps. And we're all fine and everything is great. Everything's gonna be all right. It's just that these things don't work out. The part of the economic public said to everything that came from the NBS at the end of last and early this year – due to the instability of the course, as a consequence, there was a melting of foreign reserves, a rise in credit prices (both dinar and indexed in foreign currencies), an increase in the monthly rate in existing loans, a drop in living standards, a withdrawal of foreign exchange savings from business banks, the collection of import products, the collection of energy, the negative exchange gaps that occurred, etc. When you compare what an objective part of a positive economic public or profession says and what you or NBS on behalf of you offers to MPs, it is heaven and earth. It's like we're crazy, we don't know where we live, what loans we pay, what the value of the dinars we owe ourselves to, what value we pay back to today. Well, that's what you do. But that masochism can go to a certain extent and limit. You objectively ask the question as long as that. Look at the banking sector in Serbia. Here, this is a document, a statement, a loan agreement. This is what banks can ask for in Serbia alone – the client's credit on the basis of this statement will be intended to buy second-hand cars, and then, afterwards, the client has to sign – the client confirms that the used vehicle will be used exclusively for private purposes and will not be linked to political activities, achieving political objectives etc. In which state do bankers decide what you're going to do and how to do it? But that's why credits can pull some party so-called. Leaders, presidential candidates and spend them only knowing how, where and where. That's why this story can really last until tomorrow. The objective question is how important all this is to you and how important it is to you. Finally, I'm only going to look back on something that happened yesterday in the debate or what was going on or which in some way might have marked yesterday's debate. Yesterday you presented to the MPs of this House a document for which you requested unity. You asked for the unity of Parliament, and then you spent a third of your time arguing among yourselves who was guilty of what. What kind of picture did you send to the world? You sent a document with a single story, you accepted for what reasons some amendments, you changed the content of what you wanted and why you called for unity, you made fun of both parliament and state, and then you asked for someone to respect you and respect you. It's objective, it won't, it can't. You do not want a diplomatic and political rise, nor will you be able to make political success and expect it. The credibility of the people we talk about, professional or personal, we do not want to question, but we repeat, with such people and such political plans and concepts, Serbia cannot expect anything new or good in either economic or monetary policy in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43786	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43787	You know, what foreign policy is being conducted and what is the relationship to foreign and power centres, it directly affects internal policy and the everyday life of citizens. This represents a natural continent and, if this policy towards abroad is not successful, it also reflects on everyday life in the Republic of Serbia. Now that we're back on this subject, since it's still the National Bank, the election of the President of the National Bank's Board of Governors... I don't know why you put this word of "the governor" after the word "the council. It is much more correct for it to be just the Council of the National Bank of Serbia, as an institution, not the Board of Governors. One would conclude that there is now a committee of five who advises the governor what to do, and then a mentor is appointed president of that commission who has decided that the governor can be elected to call an extraordinary professor at the same university. But let's go back to these things that concern the influence of abroad on the monetary policy of the Republic of Serbia, which will be the subject of this candidate whom you will choose. I read in the first part what he thinks about the state of our economy and our finances. Today, however, some unknowns reportedly appeared during this debate. Here, let me tell you, the National Bank of Serbia foreign reserves dropped by almost 240m euros at the end of June, so they were about 10 and a half billion euros at the end of that month. The net foreign reserves (these are essentially the real reserves) were 5.6 billion euros, and they occur by reducing the bank's foreign currency assets and what was used by the IMF. So you see what that difference is between 10 and 5.6. That's about $13 billion in dollars. This amount of foreign reserves covers eight months of imports. So we can pay for eight months for all that stuff that's being imported from abroad and that service. It's just making a good impression. The situation is much harder. Sometimes, there are many states that apply that formula today, not only to foreign reserves, but also to goods funds. Since 2000, foreign exchange reserves have been the last line of defense. Why? Because the stock funds don't exist. They're gone. Why? Because we have a low physical volume of production in the country, we have incomplete balances of all goods and, in order to stabilise our market, and even only in the consumer sector, imports of goods from abroad are necessary. That means we've given our market to abroad. The confirmation of this is what happened on 5 September 2008, when the Stabilisation and Association Agreement was ratified in that building. And, if I may already influence Veljko and Mrs Djukic Dejanovic, urgently move the National Assembly to that old building. This building is bazaar for all states. All the countries that worked here have failed. Take us back to that old building, please. I'm not a vain man, but it's simply an experience that none of the states have survived in this room here. You see, Ejup Ganic also became a great human rights fighter in English courts. That's the latest news, you probably heard. But let's go to these foreign exchange reserves now, because we'll talk about Ejup Ganic another time. So our banks, what they looked like foreign reserves, that's 1.3 billion euros. Now, right at the beginning of the sentence of our foreign exchange reserves is in the form of securities from three central banks abroad – the United States, Great Britain and Germany. It's true that you can hardly get to the data that interest is being made, but it's really modest. Why are they hanging in there? Well, that was a condition. Foreign investors don't trust you, the IMF doesn't trust you. When it falls into the water, there's no need to prey on planes, ships (ships, though, and we don't, since we don't even have seas), and then they oblige you to hold the funds there. You paperwork have it as a right, but guess who's allowed those foreign exchanges to turn into dinars. Because in order for that loan to live in Serbia, it has to turn into a dinar. When it turns into a dinar, you have a dance all the time. Then this thing with 15 dinars will jump to 150 (if there wasn't an ad, I wouldn't advertise this one, I wouldn't advertise it, I'd go further). So, in the interbank market, the National Bank sold 420m euros in June. For the sake of old foreign exchange savings, 59.3m euros went, and 46.5m were in the post of return of credit to abroad. It's some kind of commitment that needs to be done. So 421 million, and then no wonder we cut the foreign exchange reserves by 240 million. These are data that change daily, and I have to distract you, because to defend a course like this, it is necessary to engage the last line of defense, and these are foreign reserves. Now, since one issue is the state's foreign reserve, and another is the subject of how citizens live, let's see how this policy reflects on our citizens. Well, respected citizens of Serbia, thanks to this continued policy since 5 October 2000, but I can say since 1 November 2000, when, to remind you, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia has been admitted as a new member of the UN (I am not calling anyone, someone else was the president of the SRJ), and since then has been on the move. So, in June of this year, you're 16.2% more in charge and you must know that. Now let's see how that works on some structure. This is what he says -- debt refinancing loans increased by almost 30%, so they reached a sum of 41.6 billion dinars. As for consumer loans, there was a growth of 26.2%, and that's a total of 34.4 billion dinars. These most reprehensible loans, which count to be the most favourable, are residential, and those for adaptation, have increased by 17% and total citizens' debt is about 255 billion dinars. Now let's see how our agriculture develops. Agricultural loans have increased by only 10.5% and the total weight of funds there is 24.3 billion dinars. Those cash -- Serbian citizens now owe 106.5 billion dinars. So the delay of Serbian residents in paying off loans is just over two months. These are, of course, average data, which are very devastating because they indicate that, in addition to that social standard, and that individual is on the low branches. It'll seem strange to some people, because if you have a responsibility on Sundays, so you have to drive through the main streets, then you'll see by the rule in the new one, in the licking of five-digit car purchases... That's you, you know, three, then a cartoon, and two more -- that's all the licking cars in Belgrade. So, some new car, two decent ladies walking around, bewitched... I don't mean anything pajorative in the sense of a lady, but I say they're fascinated by their standards of licking – they have a residential loan, they have their own computer, they have their own Facebook, they have their own color TV, they have their own kitchen, they have their own car and they have a good time. So now, you from, I don't know, Shops, Pirota, look at the proportion there, how someone enjoys it. If someone didn't get me wrong, living on Belgrade's periphery, there's not much different from the pyrot and other places, because there's a promotional principle here -- life is one. It's better to be a social case on the periphery of the city than to process your grandfather's or your father-in-law. Because even if you were to process it, you have no one to sell it to, and you know it at what prices. So, the system of values and economic life has led to nonsense, and therefore, it is no wonder what Mr. Bosko Zivkovic, probably at moments of abuse of profession, repeated on July 7th the words of the Serbian Radical Party that have been heard for two years. So 60% of the approved bank credits are usually not returned on a regular basis, 35% of all loans are for the population. If I were to present you with complete data on internal debts, then I'd have to start with the state, which is the biggest debtor. It starts and closes with that chain and then raises the question of what right someone in the name of the state can share in the budget incentives. So, we all participated in the creation of these funds, and the distribution will be selective (probably some similarity, which Mr. Zivkovic was talking about). If it takes so many and so many billion dinars to return to the economy, then reduce VAT or corporate profit tax, and help everyone in a linear manner at an appropriate percentage. However, this is impossible from the point of view of politics, because then economic operators become quite independent, and this is a danger to the state and to the government. That's why they have to always be on the line, that's something Tito taught us, that we can't give up. So, when citizens take short-term loans, they pay double or triple the interest rate than they do in the economy, so that there is an interest rate among citizens and of 36% on the annual level for short-term loans, depending on the bank to the bank, depending on the type of credit and form, and in the economy it goes to an average rate of 10-18%. Please, with that interest rate of 10 to 18 percent, no one can organize normal production. In order to reconcile that priority obligation to the bank, he must so much as raise the price of his products, and then he is not competitive because an import lobby with dumping prices breaks our market and then it is no wonder that ideas, ideas and all other aspects appear. Greater costs of public placement – excuse me, please, no one can convince me. Why? Well, the safest loans are the ones that banks give to the population. They won't give them credit unless they have strong funds for payment security, to be precise – the funds for repaying the loans, which are remunerated immediately, as soon as it falls into delay. As our banks do business, who they're all crediting and how they're lending, that's what we just chatted about, Mrs. Kolundjia, and Slavica warned us about. You know, and I know which bank gave the politician a loan for the election campaign, but now we don't affect the judiciary or you or me. That's before the courts, and let the criminal and litigation court settle that question, because something like this has never happened before. Now, where are these people, who are these people, whether someone in Brussels writes them amendments or doesn't write amendments, that's another thing. We don't want to affect the judiciary, we're just waiting for the judiciary to resolve it. In the end, let me express the position of the SRS. Of course, we can't support this candidate. That wouldn't be a big surprise, given that the candidate himself was in his public address, and you had the opportunity, the MPs of the SRS even read some of his statements that the media transmitted... It's just that there's nothing revolutionary about it that changes. Two men who are now in conflict of interest have been elected to some new functions. By falling out as economic advisers to the Prime Minister, no picture changes. Of course, regardless of which group from DOS is taken over by NBS, it is known – the boss is the same, and that is the IMF. Now, since there have been stories about some anonymous visits by IMF representatives to the wineries, I have to distract you – pensioners, you're holding well, the IMF thinks that pensions should be lifted and they're doing that pressure. Pensioners are expenses, social benefits are budget costs, and we have economic experts that eliminate costs, liquidate. Anything that costs, it has to be liquidated. It seems a little funny that I said this, but I'm telling you this a long time ago – there's been a real decline in all social donations. Why? For one simple reason, a big hole appears in the ongoing financing of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Mr. Radojko Obradovic presented some of the factographic data. When you get a little deeper into it, the data is much more dangerous, much blacker. We can't avoid borrowing. But it's not a problem that you're going into a new borrowing, the problem is you're not drawing a line. Which is not to draw a line to break up with such a policy and move with domestic goods, with domestic services, with the growth of domestic GDP.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43788	Is someone who hasn't used the right of Article 93. Does the Rules of Procedure want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search. After we have conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the motion for a decision. Excuse me, Mr. Cholakovic. Here and thank you for coming, probably because of the defetism that MP Krasic is spreading among Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43789	Dear Mr. Krasic would now ask how long we have, so I would ask you to tell us.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43790	You have 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43791	I would ask the honourable MPs of the SRS to listen to us, as we have listened to them. Is that a lot?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43792	You can, of course. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43793	President-in-Office, Mr. Secretary, honourable MPs, we had no intention of talking about this item on the agenda, but for the inspiration of the gentlemen of the SRS, there is something to be said. If nothing else, whether we support or not the candidate's proposal. And since we don't have a proposing, then I can't ask a question, because then there's no answer, right? He'll be back? Our PUPS parliamentary group will support Mr. Zivkovic's candidacy, as we did with the National Bank Governor's candidacy. We hope that we will have better communication and better conditions for discussion and understanding, that is, what Mr Krasic said, I hope that neither the Governor nor the President of the Council will have in his work a separate task of proposing a reduction in wages and pensions. In this regard, we think that both Mr. Soskovic and Mr. Zivkovic will have an understanding of the social dimensions of the state Mr. Krasic was talking about and we hope that what he said here will not happen. In this respect, it will have the support of the PUPS parliamentary group. We give the rest of the time, we don't use it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43794	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43795	Mr. Colakovic didn't understand me. I didn't want what I was saying, but I just said under what IMF pressures they're doing the job. Otherwise, it's a long way from me to cut pensions. It's just a matter of work. Those are acquired rights. After all, everyone’s future in retirement is bright, not pioneering.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-27-0.u43796	The concern of your status after this term of office, i.e. the care of pensioners, has been very well established. Thank you. We'll continue work tomorrow at 11.00 p.m. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on the official record of the presence of MPs, there are 87 MPs, and to determine the number of present in the hall, please insert identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there are 92 MPs at this point, so there are working conditions. Let me just inform you that in Sali 2 there will be a Privatisation Committee, so I would like to ask the MPs who are members of this committee, given that the session begins, to attend that session. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs: Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jankovic and Milica Radovic. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of the Deputy General Secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia (Serb Single Search) to the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and informed the Secretary-General that on 15 July 2010, he submitted a proposal for a decision to appoint the Deputy Secretary-General of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which he proposed that the Deputy Secretary-General be named Vanka Dubovac Pavlovic and Mladen Mladenov. The proposal was included in the agenda of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. On the basis of Article 145(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that the secretary is withdrawing that motion for a decision in the work concerning candidate Vanko Dubovac Pavlovic. You have received a proposal for a decision appointing the Deputy Secretary-General of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Secretary-General of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the consent of the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with Article 34(2). The Law on the National Assembly. I remind you, according to Article 163(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours, as well as that this time shall be allocated to MPs' groups of MPs in proportion to the number of MPs of MPs: Parliament's Group "For European Serbia" – hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; SRS MP group – hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament's group "Forward, Serbia" – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; DSS – Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; SPS-JS - 18 minutes; MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group "New Serbia" – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliamentary group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS Group of Members – six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak each and every one, up to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not done so, to file an application for a word with the order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the DSS parliamentary group, Vojislav Kostunica, will present Alexander Pejcic at this point in the agenda. According to Article 163(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do representatives, or presidents of parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. Mr. Pejcic. Here you go.
