ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43138	The President-in-Office, honourable fellow ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the day after tomorrow, on Thursday, July 22nd, the International Court of Justice adopted an advisory opinion on Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence. The Democratic Party of Serbia has previously requested a meeting of parliament, where, among other things, the government of the Republic of Serbia would present its strategy, i.e. a platform on Kosovo and Metohija. We are again seeking the appointment of a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia at which MPs would discuss this very important issue. We are witnessing that decisions are made secretly, behind closed doors, without the involvement of parliament, which is a kind of precedent of parliamentaryism, the work of parliaments around the world. It should be recalled that the government of Vojislav Kostunica has agreed all decisions in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'm talking about Kosovo and Metohija. It should be recalled that all rounds of negotiations on KIM status, the negotiations held in Vienna, are also represented in parliament. What's going on here? We don't even know who's running the KIM policy. Is that the president, Boris Tadic? Is it perhaps the Prime Minister, Mirko Cvetkovic? Is that Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic? It should remind the members of the Constitution who speak who does what. Article 112 item 1 – The President of the Republic represents the Republic of Serbia in the country and abroad. Article 123 of Item 1 – The Government determines and leads the policy. We don't have any information on what the government is doing before the International Court of Justice ruling the day after tomorrow, which will mean a lot to all of us. Prime Minister Belgium should be reminded, Ivel Term, of whether the International Court of Justice's opinion will have an impact on the granting of EU candidate status or whether Serbia will continue to be a candidate, answers that the Serbian authorities' response to the International Court of Justice decision will be closely monitored. What does that mean? Do we have a platform? Do we have answers to what will happen the day after tomorrow? Is it possible for foreign ministers, for example, Ghana or Jamaica, to know more about this than MPs and the public in Serbia? Is that possible? What about Russian support? What does the Prime Minister, Vladimir Putin, mean that if Serbs cannot fight and fight for Kosovo, how do they expect Russia to do so? What do those words mean? Where is Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic to tell us or the girl for everything, President Boris Tadic, to come to parliament to tell us? From Mirko Cvetkovic, Prime Minister, we can't really expect it anymore, although the Constitution obliges him to do so. As far as secret negotiations are concerned, the Belgrade charter reports that Hashim Thaci has sent two men to the presidency of the Republic of Serbia and has negotiated Kosovo's division. Is that true? Is it true that Mr Damjan Krnjević of the MIP spoke to those meetings on behalf of the Foreign Ministry? What's going on? Is it possible that officials of all minority states in the world know more? Is Hashim Thaci in Washington today? Does it already read the International Court of Justice's decision without the Serbian public knowing anything about it? We expect the Prime Minister, we expect the president of the state, we expect the foreign minister to come to parliament and make bills, to say what they have been doing so far on Kosovo and Metohija and after the International Court of Justice's decision to continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43139	The word has a People's MP Srdjan Spasojevic, followed by the MP Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43140	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable President, the respected citizens of Serbia, precisely a week ago from this place I asked the question of Minister of Local Self-Government Milan Markovic, in what way and with what arguments, referring to the decisions of the Constitutional and Administrative Court, the virtually electoral will of the citizens of the Kings and the introduced dictatorship in this city was rewritten? I will say here, and I said this last week, that every evening in the King, at 2.00 a.m., in front of Milutin, the famous Milutin, where democratic changes in this country have sometimes started, the King was one of those cities where democratic changes were started, a large number of dissatisfied citizens gathered and protested. Of course, no one's talking about it. Serbia is in media darkness. Much less important events are important, they are transmitted, but they are not conveyed what happens in the King every evening. Of course, there are protest walks. I now explicitly ask Minister Markovic and Prime Minister to be delivered to us, the People's and Radical Coalition, the Kraljevo Movement, which is the majority of the 40 council members in that city, the conclusion of the government which was determined to reverse the electoral will of the citizens of the Kings and that this coalition that has 40 council members with all these controversial decisions came to 25. It's something that's unrecorded in any democracy. It's something that's unsustainable. And now, like the last time I talked about this, Madam Chairman, there's an unseen fire in the O.R. It's just that DS representatives and others don't want to hear what they're saying. And last time I stopped by the fire and now it's a big fire, and you're not warning the MPs of that coalition. We ask that we be delivered the conclusion of the government, because as an interested party in this process we have the right, probably by that conclusion, to file a specific legal remedy. Nowhere has the government's conclusion, even though it was mandatory to publish it within five days, has not been published anywhere. I'll also tell you that we've learned about this conclusion only practically in the MUP, when we're invited to be told in a nice way to leave the municipality building, in the presence of the district chief and district attorney. We are simply told that there is a conclusion of the government and that the police will act by order, both representatives and committees from SO Kraljevo in a rough way, unless we withdraw ourselves. So we're looking for what was delivered to the MUP to deliver to us. This is inappropriate, this should all be ashamed of those who do so, and I would ask a question to the District Attorney in the King - why he does not investigate the violent criminal charges filed against the people who have traded mandates in that city, because only within four or five days, when a coalition was formed on March 23rd, five or six people, in an unprecedented manner, with great manipulations, have gone to the other side, suddenly changed their will or desire to be in those parties. What's that? There are criminal charges. We're just asking the D.A. and the D.A.'s office to treat both those faces and those faces who apparently led those people to these decisions they made. In this way, gentlemen dear, Serbia probably doesn't need local elections anymore, we should only have republican elections, and if anyone wins the republican elections, he should set up local self-government according to a simple pyramid. I will also remind you that even in the age of Slobodan Milosevic, there were towns that could rule and exercise local self-government. This is an invisible thing, it's a total dictatorship. I'm telling you once again from this place, don't do it. Surely one day, the people who have crossed over, for the sake of likely great interest, will later be informed, because they are doing what they are doing, act so that there is virtually no rule of law or rule of law in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43141	The word has an MP, Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43142	Dear Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, a question I would like to ask as a representative of the LDP essentially concerns the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, but it is by its weight directed to the Prime Minister and the entire government. I'm going to do a dyspression. We almost had an election in the state of Negatin and in the pine area. During these elections, citizens were promised everything and everything, and many tried to buy human souls by measuring pressure, giving old women glasses, and so on, by giving up stoves, jeans, and I don't know what. The buyers of human souls seem to have gotten used to such an approach to politics, probably because of that they are now selling their soul and therefore doing in Brussels what they are doing these days. For example, those who are promised everything and everything before the elections are now on their own. There's a serious problem in the Dust that no one's talking about, nobody's reporting. Similarly, the question – why does the Agency for Privatisation or the Government of the Republic of Serbia tolerate the Greek firm "Neo Hiiki", which bought the Company of Chemical Products in Prahovo for violating the privatisation contract? Although the agency extended this Greek company's deadline for investing in the factory, as well as a deadline for paying back the backlogs, the Greek firm has not met the deadlines set by the contract so far. Should the current and former employees of this company, to whom this Greek firm owes more than 20 back salaries, receive their earned money or those same workers, around 1,900 of them, be the social cases of the Negotin municipality? So the question is, do these people have the right to start their own business, to educate children, to buy heating, etc? To clarify, workers have been on strike since July 15th this year and blocked the entrance and exit of the factory, as well as Luke Prahovo himself. They decided on this step after many unsuccessful negotiations with the new employer, which was neatly notified by the police in Negotin's letter of July 7th. Some have also conducted court proceedings, but unfortunately the courts are working slowly, so perhaps we could call it a different one. The workers were otherwise contacted by the police station commander in Negotin, Mr. Genovanovic, and said that if they did not break up with the blockade they would call an intervention unit from Bor. The president of the strike committee was also invited to an information conversation. Who in this country has greater rights, those to whom they owe, or those who owe? Should we have new social cases in a small municipality like Negotin? Do these workers' children have the right to a normal diet, life, education? Finally, with a question and a request, the LDP asks the Privatisation Agency to review the contract immediately with the Greek firm, because the deadlines have already expired and to allow workers to receive back salaries.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43143	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43144	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I assume you will be witnessing another affair that is opening in our public, nothing new, but we should still do everything and there should be no mistakes, such as the rules on "News" and Luke Belgrade. I think we should take this more seriously now, because it's also a big robbery. What is particularly interesting, and in the robbery of the Battles, so to speak, were the same persons that you had the opportunity to meet in the privatisation of News and Luke Belgrade. What I suppose our public, and I believe many MPs do not know, is that the robbery of the Battle was done by separate parts of the Battle without a partial balance being made. Here, now I ask the question, to provide us with an answer – when was the partial balance of the Press-Publishing Company "The Battle"? Let me remind you, the news and publishing company "The Battle" consisted of the list "The Battle", "The Evening News", "Sports", "TV News", "The Press Fight", "Plasman Fight", it's a chain of kiosks, and "Transport Fight". This company, which was 100% owner, because the property was acquired by buying it from its former SFRY profits, was 100% owned by everything that belonged to it. What's also interesting, in 2003, is that they try to privatise the Battles, they set out in the paved paths, so-called. recapitalisation. The recapitalisation wanted Bodo Hombah, an Emi company registered in Denmark, behind which Stanko Sobotic Cane stood. This failed at the time, but what is very interesting was the whole federal summit of the state, headed by former President Svetozar Marovic, in the complete robbery of "The Battle". What's also interesting, many individuals in that circle, in order to settle down, get apartments or get money, so they bought apartments. There's an apartment in Paris that somebody got. I assume that the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, since it will have undeniably all the facts, will have both names and last names, will launch a process and we will finally get information, that we will finally have a process in this country that those responsible for the robbery of Serbian citizens' property will have to respond. Another interesting question is being asked. In the past few months, we have had the opportunity to see that the Saric brothers are taking away property because, under the Law that allows them, they are presumed to have acquired this property from criminal activities. I ask the question - why is this not done with Stanko Sudotic Canet, who is also being prosecuted and who is involved in all these activities, when it comes to "The Battle", "News", Luka "Belgrade" etc.? Not only does he not hide it, but he also brings it out to the public, he gives evidence that he was involved in it. I don't understand how it's possible to take away one criminal's property without taking away another criminal's property. I'd like to ask another question -- how was it possible to be part of the Battle, the Battle of Plassin, these are kiosks, based on their debt to Caneta? How is that possible? How is it that part of the state's capital to be given to someone, and that it does not represent the whole, was not a separate company and that, essentially, based on taking that part of the fight, it later went to rob the Battle? One more question: when was the "Brother" listed out of state capital and who bought the "Brother" list? These are very simple questions to be answered. I would ask you, Mrs. Kolundjia, because you have been actively involved in this fight against crime and corruption, to support this and to ask you a question, because your answers are coming faster than I have and to try to solve these problems faced by Serbian citizens over the past ten years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43145	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives report to exercise their right under Article 235? Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Elvira Kovac. We're continuing our work on the agenda. We move to a joint single search of the 12th and 13th points of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION on the termination of the Governor's function and a proposal for the election of the Governor of the National Bank of Serbia unanimously to carry out a joint single search on proposals for acts from the agenda under points 12 and 13 and before the opening of the search, I remind you that under Article 163(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to the MPs in proportion to the number of MPs of the MPs of the parliamentary group, and that is: the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MP group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; the parliamentary group SPS - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the parliamentary group New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Parliamentary group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS group - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them: MP Vlajko Senic, MP group G 17 plus and MP Zoran Krasic, the SRS parliamentary group. I ask other parliamentary groups, if they have notice of authorised representatives, to deliver, to inform the National Assembly. According to Article 163(2), Article 142(2) shall apply. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on the proposal for a decision to suspend the role of governors of the NBS and the proposal for the election of governors of the NBS. Before we begin the session in the Rules of Procedure, pursuant to Article 85(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform the National Assembly that today we will be working even after 1800 hours, if the joint single debate on the motion for a decision to suspend the position of governors of the NBS and the proposal for the election of the governor of the NBS is completed before 1800 hours, and then until the end of the work and debate on the Single Review of the Proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, which is the 14th point of the agenda. Does National MP Branko Ljiljak, deputy chairman of the Finance Committee, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Branka Ljiljak.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43146	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a proposal to elect the governor of the NBS. On 30 June 2010, amendments to the NBS Act were adopted, in which among other things one of the newspapers and the choice of governors is the procedure for electing governors. The newspaper in this adopted NBS law is that the National Assembly elects a governor, but the proposal for his candidacy is made by the president of the Republic of Serbia. Why the President of the Republic of Serbia? If we know that the President of the Republic of Serbia is elected by citizens in direct elections and is entrusted with the mandate, then it is understandable that these amendments gave him the right and opportunity to propose a candidate for such a significant function as the governor of the NBS. In doing so, the constitutional authority of the President is to propose, both members of the Government and officials who are in high and significant functions, so that this paper in the Law is considered normal, I think it is good, because if the choice by citizens implies you get a mandate, and you get the opportunity to make decisions, then it is a big deal that the President of the Republic also makes such a significant decision and gives his suggestions. This is usually a good solution. On the candidate proposed by the President of the Republic, I think it is a great honor that his work means that he is appreciated and extremely significant, which I think gives the candidate great credibility in his former, professional and personal engagement. As governor of the NBS, Dr Dejan Šoštic was proposed. From the biography we get about Dejan Soskic, I would single out just so much, for the sake of the public, that citizens have some basic information, which is that he was born in Belgrade in 1967, that he graduated from the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade, and he mastered and doctored at this university, that the candidate has a rich experience in economics, finance and banking, and that is why he can respond to all the challenges that require the post of governor. Working as an extraordinary professor of the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade, he passed on academic knowledge to students, and also perfected his knowledge at several world-renowned universities. He was an adviser to many financial institutions, including the National Bank, and he was the chairman of the Board of Governors, until the other day he was elected by the National Assembly, but at the last session of the Finance Committee he resigned and the Finance Committee found that decision, so that he could now apply to be governor. The author of the book "Harts of Values - Portfolio Management and Investment Funds", published several articles and reports from the area of finance, markets and transition. I think that after three months of the resignation of previous Governor Mr. Jelasic, the conditions have been met to elect a new governor. I think a good man is coming to the governor's post, a good expert. I think he's going to keep working in the best light for the National Bank, and he's going to improve financial and monetary business. I think the National Assembly would need most of the votes of all the MPs, and I don't just think of the position here, to adopt a proposal for governor, because this is vital to our country's economic progress. In the day to vote, the ZES parliamentary group will vote for this candidate, for Mr Dejan Soskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43147	I am informing the National Assembly that the authorised representative of the LDP parliamentary group is MP Zoran Ostojic. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary group, want the word? National MP Zoran Krasic has been reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43148	Mrs. Komic, since the Assembly has decided to merge these two points, I will dedicate the first ten minutes, I hope ten minutes, to Mr. Jelasic, and the second part below will be devoted to the second item of the agenda – the election of the new governor. Formal-legal Mr Jelasic is elected under the old law, and will cease his post under the new law. No one disputes the fact that the governor, as a senior state official, has the right to resign at some point when he estimates that there are some personal reasons why he could no longer perform this very important function. However, whenever a resignation is submitted, it does not enter into those details on which foot he stood up that morning when he decided to say – I will resign, exceed all possible measures, fill the glass, etc. It's important to create some retrospective, to make some balance, to subdue, to see what this man, that functioner, has been doing for so many years. I do not dispute that the conditions were formally met, there is a paper where a man said it was a resignation, not a disputed fact that the Council also considered it, the Finance Committee also found that it was allegedly not under pressure but voluntarily. But we need to take a look at what happened in that monetary sphere, what is the most responsible governor of the NBS, what happened to our banks, what happened to the financial market, what happened to insurance companies, voluntary pension funds, investment funds, stock exchanges, what happened when that man was governor of the NBS, and that man with terrible big powers? At first, I must say that his work résumé, professional and professional career almost differs from the professional and professional career of this candidate proposed by the President of the Republic under the new law as governor. Economist, a good student, Jelasic, meanwhile, won our citizenship, which was a condition, as early as November 2000 to be a vice governor under the old, old law of the NBJ. And this one and this one were foreign scholarships, perfecting themselves, but this one a little bit more towards the Germans, this new one a little bit more towards the Americans. I remember what it was like in the 1990s and some years as in Montenegro, he says – nice, beautiful, beautiful, beautiful, beautiful, young, so beautiful, probably successful. I don't argue that this candidate who was proposed by the president, apparently by his criteria, is a handsome candidate. The NBS, however, is not a fashion runway, the NBS should not have an expression of emotion, the NBS must, on its own, be one raw organ that should allow not only to be priced stable, but to make some contribution to making the best of living in Serbia. You see, I do not dispute that Jelasic, as governor, lived well in that function, enjoyed it simply. However, Mrs. Comic will remain contentious about that villa and 300 and some thousand allegedly, so when someone offered him a million and something he didn't want to sell, and the evil languages say it was bought by some Duško Kovacevic, Atlas Bank, today Pireus Bank. I don't know if that's true. I hope someone checks it out. Maybe somebody'll check it out if it's time to check. I must remind you that since Jelasic is governor, which is in fact the continuity of one policy, the IMF policy, it started with Mladjan Dinkic as the first governor of NBJ, Mladjan Dinkic was in a big fight with Zoran Djindjic when he formed an expert group and party. Remember that when the creation of the state community and the transfer of the NBJ business to the NBS occurred, then Kori Udovicki was the first to be elected, then after Kori Udovici and the change of government, Radovan Jelasic came. Banks from abroad have been greatly strengthened, our almost symbolically present, twice as burdened by interest on loans taken by citizens from banks than by businesses. Now that he read these statistics, it would appear that there was simply no room and space in the NBS policy during Jelasic's rule to do something better when it comes to living standards for citizens. Not counting on him being directly in charge of protecting living standards, but simply protecting himself with foreign exchange reserves only, our stock balances are in constant deficits, our production is reduced, production is not stimulated, production growth is not being created, jobs are not being opened. A few years ago when we said the biggest problem was to create new jobs, then those in power smiled, they said – the most important thing is to ensure the stability of the financial market, preserve the course of the dinar, achieve stability. You remember that it was tied to the euro, all the funds needed to protect the euro, so a significant amount of foreign reserves simply went through the NBS, went to foreign banks, and who knows where it ended. What remains likely to be a dangerous stain, not only for Mr Jelasic, but for the whole concept of the financial market in the Republic of Serbia, is something the state said. A few months ago, the state said that a Darko Saric, if he exists at all, had washed a billion and 350m euros through the financial market of the Republic of Serbia, in different ways, as you said. It's just amazing how many institutions you've made over the past 10 years with the goal of mimicking something similar that exists in one of the EU countries have failed here. So, a special organization unit that's dealing with the prevention of money laundering probably failed. At first, there was this Bogician, you remember him from Homeland Security, who was chasing Cyprus where Milosevic's money and the money of "Belgrade Bank", Cobb, was. They just stole those paperwork containers and brought it to the NBS. What else did it do? You don't know what happened, it's just that some of them, in the meantime, have become large tycoons, have chains of companies. Meanwhile, they bought large locations, building for the apartment market, etc. If indeed the drug group could wash a billion and 350m euros and pass it through the payment system of the Republic of Serbia, the organised group could participate in privatisation, invest it in real estate, in construction, etc. And that no one was killed in this country, in the sense of being called to account, I'm sorry, please, what are we doing then? It's probably also one of the reasons why Jelasic resigned, and it stops his post and is not resolved. I don't know if after the term of office of the governor of the NBS will be the subject of an investigation by the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime, the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, the police and some other international organisations. Your data, I say, is the authority of the Republic of Serbia, that a billion and 350 million laundered mob couples in the Republic of Serbia. I have to remind you it's a very strange flow of money. So many foreign banks are protected in the Republic of Serbia that every January for several years, the highest state officials and likely owners of the capital of these foreign banks are meeting in Vienna, where they simply agree on what will be, in the course of the financial year, what profits are guaranteed to foreign banks on the basis of our invested money in their banks. It's probably Mr. Jelasic's fault, too, if I were to paint it a bit because of those people who don't really have to understand in this area, to explain how it works. You know, there's a water heater that has a safety valve. The safety valve makes it impossible to return hot water through the cold tube. It enables when a water heater is turned on to always be hot water, so when you drop it on the tap, you can have the soft water any way you want to fit it. That should be when it comes to the National Bank of Serbia's money. Our National Bank of Serbia is a flow water heater, one without a valve, as far in, so far out. As far as it got into Serbia, it came out so far to those from abroad. Where are the citizens? Where is it figuratively possible to choose the soft water if necessary? She's gone. Our National Bank isn't run by anyone from here. It's run by someone from abroad. The gentleman you proposed to be the new governor, he was in conflict a while ago. He's in conflict with everything and everything. I don't slow down my professional career as a professor, etc. Don't expect it, and there's no need to do it. There is no need for this agenda item to be reduced to whether or not someone meets the formal requirements. It is indisputable that he also fulfils these formal conditions, although the issue of the job internship is in the profession, yes, but in these things of the financial market, it is a modest experience, but not to get into it. If he could have been an advisor to the economic affairs of the Prime Minister, Mr Cvetkovic, and at the same time to be President of the NBS Council, I'm sorry, please, it is immoral to propose such a man to be governor of the NBS. The two functions he has performed in the meantime are incompatible. They're absolutely incompatible. I also understand the promoter when he proposed this candidate, because it's hard for us to have an impact on this candidate, but now let's say something about someone who's starting to comment on what's going on with the NBS. It will likely be on the agenda of some session of the National Assembly soon, and that is the election of the President of the Board of Governors of the NBS. From what I've heard, the candidate's a professor. Bosko Zivkovic. This is what he says about this situation and some points of contact with the NBS and, in general, this relationship with the NBS -- the government of the Republic of Serbia. He says – over a year ago, the bank also made donations in dinars, because they earned interest from state records. This is what Mr. Zivkovic said, and this is what Krasic told you for two and a half years, and you smiled. Teram further – and in the euro, because they have turned that gain into foreign exchanges, says your candidate for President of the Council of Governors of the NBS. I'm late, though. Probably couldn't hide him anymore. In the last nine months, however, the investment of banks and state records has dropped, I said that it will also happen in the repo operations of the NBS. I believe that this was the most affected by the sudden reduction of the NBS reference rate, Zivkovic said, adding that the state is now unable to make a good move. That's what I've been telling you for two and a half years. You don't even have room for maneuvers anymore. When I say you, I don't mean MPs, I don't mean this guy who proposed a candidate for governor, but I'm talking about this policy in general that's wrong. You practically destroyed internal resources that cannot be recovered and the state, which in the meantime became the only normal lender and investor, is exhausted. If you are now reading these options that exist, in June you couldn't even provide any normal funds to cover the current budget deficit. You can't put in a foreign payment fund course and the foreign loans you got. You're tormenting how to print these dinars, even though your money mass is four times larger, etc., not to go into those details. Your water heater's broken. He lost the safety valve and became flowing – whatever comes in, that's what comes out. He goes through Serbia and comes out of Serbia, and who's going to pay back, who's going to pay? When's that gonna get here? Whose children? What will children ask you when you are grandfathers – where have you been, what have you done, why have you eaten something for me that I have yet to earn? You don't think about it, but -- young, young, young, beautiful, beautiful, beautiful, all-fulfilling, a good man, as he said just before. He says -- imagine, he was born in Belgrade. So, where's his maneuvering space? What's he gonna do? Jelasic scares us by it, he says – there are many expectations from the new governor. Well, your new governor was also in the government, and the NBS, and you swear here, so you even ordered a study on the independence of the NBS. Let me just draw attention to you, the one who wrote your study, he mistranslated the word. That word doesn't mean independence, but it doesn't matter. Stay away from these media speculations and manipulations, the NBS didn't arise the moment you came to power. It is illusory now to read this information about the responsibility of citizens, as it increases, to read illusoryly about how you failed the concept of voluntary retirement insurance, that the concept of investment funds has failed, that the stock market is modestly trading, but what is being done and doing well, foreign reserves from the Republic of Serbia change their owner's tobacco to preserve the course and all go abroad nicely. Two years ago, I said, there was a saying in America: "When a man is born it is certain that he will die and pay the tax." You have managed to build that saying in these ten years, besides the fact that a man has to die and pay taxes, he has to pay a bank fee. Simply your entire economic policy, if at all you can talk about the economic policy of the NBS, in a broader sense you can certainly speak, is exactly like that: the financial market to calm it down, to stabilise it, to organise some stability. Now you're under obligation to guard your course. Why are you obliged to guard your course and defend it with all means? Because the citizens are over-indebted. You're afraid that balloon just doesn't break. That's our problem. You've opened our market for foreign goods, you'll get credit from abroad for both the trip and the airport, both for the plane and everything, but you won't get a loan to open a new job. If the National Bank is to support this concept, that a particular place depends only on the Republic of Serbia's budget, such as the flag, the mining-topic base Bor, it is difficult for them to earn both water and electricity, but their salaries are provided from the budget, etc. If that's economic policy, then respected citizens, no matter what sector you work in, public, state, social, privatized, let us all come before the government to ask the government for a salary. Is that your economic policy? Is that a free market or a free market? Meanwhile, the great tycoons, since the operation has obviously failed, the bar has fallen, crocodiles bite, you hear for themselves, will now, God forbid, what should happen to them. Just please, Vojislav Seselj won't have anything to do with it. He's in The Hague. Let those tycoons do whatever they want to each other, but don't accuse Vojislav Seselj of ordering anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43149	The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43150	My colleagues and colleagues, Governor Jelasic, has left. He did his job mostly well, though we had a grudge. In principle, he managed to preserve something that is crucial when it comes to the central bank of every state, which is independence from politicians. In the end, he failed to resist political pressures and left. That's where we are today. When we look at a parallel analysis of the length of the term of the governor of central banks in the region, we will see that the most frequently changed here in Serbia. What does that fact mean? This fact means that in Serbia, the position of Central Bank Governor or National Bank was mostly subject to the influences of politics. In Macedonia, Petar Goshev, governor of the National Bank, has been in Macedonia since 2002. His seven-year term expires this year and he'll get it again, and he'll be governor for another seven years. When the euro was introduced, it was worth 60 Macedonian money in Macedonia, like 60 dinars in our country on January 1st 2002. Today, the euro in Macedonia, eight years later, is worth 61 money, and in Serbia 105. If anyone convinces me that Macedonia's economy and industry are so much more developed than Serbia, I will give him the Nobel Prize, but that's not the case. The fact is that the governor of the National Bank of Macedonia is independent, although both left and right governments have changed, he is doing his job. What do we have here? We have a proposal here to choose Mr. Shoskovic as governor. Is the governor elected based on biographical data? No, I don't. Many people meet the conditions of being governors of the National Bank. As far as the LDP is concerned, we believe that we should have had the opportunity to talk to Mr Soskovic and based on what he would have heard from the talks with him, on this basis we would have defined whether we support what he intends to do or not, whether it is in line with the LDP's economic policy or not. Do we, gentlemen, know what Mr. Shoskovic's policy will be? Do we know what course regime will be? We don't know. We can only assume, since the government has passed two mandates, that it has decided to put the National Bank under control. What does that mean? This means that if there is no money in the state, the general liquidity of the government in the economy, that means that the government, we will suspect or assume, but we did not get a chance to check it in one conversation, even if in the Finance Committee, with Mr Shoskovic, that the government will try to use the country's foreign reserve in the next period to pre-election. That's what we're fundamentally doubting because, after all, it's happened in the past. Was Jelasic a dam for that? It seems he did because he kept saying he couldn't replace the government's poor fiscal policy. He said similar things to what the LDP has been saying since its founding, which is that public spending must be reduced in this country, that we must spend what we earn, that borrowing must be controlled because future generations are really in debt. My esteemed colleague Krasic utters the following sentence – no one in the country manages the National Bank and Governor, but someone from abroad. I can only tell you -- God forbid it is, but it is not, because in the country there is an irresponsible fiscal policy, a wasteful policy that is seen on many examples. After all, from the number of government ministries you have formed to various other things, it is evidence that someone from the country, which is executive authority, i.e. The government is also trying to manage monetary policy. Unfortunately, it is absolutely the opposite of what the LDP has been proposing from the beginning and simply us at the moment, because of the fact that we have not been given the opportunity to talk and to hear Mr. Shoskovic's plan, we cannot support Mr. Soskovic. We have nothing against Mr. Soskovic, it doesn't matter where he was born, whether he was born in Belgrade or in Podgorica, it is important that we don't know what his plan is, and we see that back two or three months after Governor Jelasic's departure there is some way of campaigning in the media to fix the course. The indicator was the title in "Politice" from a month ago – fixed, but to swim. But the point is, it's fixed. Unfortunately, gentlemen, I know that we are approaching the elections, either at the end of next year or perhaps, as you say, by the end of the term, but monetary policy and the course of the dinar is a reflection of the strength of an economy. Whenever you run a policy that is in fact in favour of the importer, and at the expense of the exporter, the deficit will grow and the course simply cannot be fixed or cannot be fixed as much as you would like, except at the cost of spending all the foreign reserves. We wanted to talk to the governor on this subject and on these professional matters. We are indeed insistent and will continue to insist, not only on the measures that we have proposed back two years, but which you have partially and selectively accepted, but always with one year of delay, when the effects are less than that you have listened to right now, but we will insist on changing the work of this highest home of Serbia, that when we appoint people to certain functions, we will be able to talk to these people, at least on committees, if not on the tide, to talk, because of the attitudes of these people, from worthy courts, whether it is the trustee for information, the judge of the Constitutional Court or the governor, depends on our position. That's how it's supposed to be, and that's how it's in all normal countries. Remember, a week or two ago how you chose the Constitutional Court judges with four sentences of biography, where we didn't get a chance to talk about what these people think about human rights, gay rights, other things they're going to decide about. That is why we cannot support the proposal by the president of the DS to be governor, because we do not know what policy and what course regime it will lead to. Amendments to the Law on the National Bank which definitely give the Government more authority to the policy of the course regime, because you have adopted amendments to the laws under which, on the proposal of the Executive Board and the Government, the course regime is determined, we have a red light to go the time when foreign reserves and the National Bank will be put into office by the executive authority, and we do not want it and neither does the IMF, so no one wants it and it will be bad. It's simple, you can't make money, let's say, choice or pulsism do it with the National Bank. You just have to change the government's economic policy, you have to be more rational, you have to understand that the future of this country is in re-industriousization. That's what we're telling you, that we have to start exporting. In order to export, less must be spent in the country, which means reducing public spending, because if the land is spent then there is less to export. On the side that the structure of our economy is so little that we can export, but nothing on it is done. It seems to me that you've started on a less-resistance line. You're not the first one to do this, because when we look at it, the governor really changed in Serbia. We're afraid it's going to be a rough day for the governor, or the National Bank. What's worse, we're afraid the consequences of that will be paid by the next governments that come after you. So, once again, we're sorry this happened, that Jelasic left. Since 2007, even at that government of Kostunica, when Mr Dinkic refused to make an agreement with the IMF, you remember that time you said - no, we don't need the IMF, there were elections, there was that constitutional referendum, it was spent, it was archiving and then it came toll. Jelasic was obviously a dam to put monetary policy under control and be in the function of fiscal bad tax policy. Now he's gone, you're bringing in a man who, all of a sudden, because these are the arguments that lead to it, will do what Jelasic didn't want to do. I'm afraid the price of it will be really high. We appeal once again to remove this practice in future work that when we appoint important people, we sit down and talk and that, based on what their programme and plan is, we make a decision. Since this time it was left behind, we certainly cannot support it, in essence, I will say a party decision, I will repeat -- Governor Soskovic suggested the president of the Democratic Party. He is also the president of the state and it is that it is constitutional authority, but in the way he suggested, non-transparently, without some consultation with the professional public, this is just another proof that the party state will be appointed by this appointment, which will probably follow next year, not that it is weaker than stronger. That's why the LDP can't stand behind Governor Shoskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43151	Twelve minutes and 10 seconds used time by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk MP, Jorvanka Tabakovic, followed by MP Vlajko Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43152	The least I expected today is to have one candidate and another candidate in front of us, and the one who is leaving and the one who is coming, and that we have at least something that could be called a handover of duty, which should be done not only at the National Bank and after the vote, but also as a filed account on monetary policy, a hard-earned failure, and some claim successful. Citizens should assess according to their standard, their wallet, their fear and expectations of how successful Radovan Jelasic has done his job and what our hopes and expectations of Mr. Šoškovic are. We expected even some questions, which should be asked to Governor Jelasic, to be answered. The story of the National Bank Act wasn't just a story about the success of the governor, who, by second and different laws, was working, so today, if I have to give a general assessment of his work, she is negative. I hope that we will never again have an allegedly successful governor and allegedly successful monetary policy, and that in fact the mistakes of this "successful policy" are covered by all of us citizens, filling the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which clearly covered losses that were not accounting but a real category, with significant figures since 2006, when the loss of the NBS amounted to 376m euros. According to the final bill delivered here to this home, not the newspaper report, not any insider information. Radovan Jelasic represents the continuity of the Dossovic policy, because since 2001, as the first co-worker of the then Governor Mladjan Dinkic, with a short break from outside the bank, he has actually been a man who has had a significant impact on the country's economic, fiscal and monetary policy, affecting as much as he wanted, not as much as he could or was authorized. That's my responsibility. The main problem and this governor of the outgoing and the coming one is the perverse and unacceptable attitude that money control should be left to whom, some law, individual, advice or group of people, and that the control of the NBS and its work cannot be subject to congregation supervision, or supervision of all citizens, and that the NBS should practically not work in the interest of those who pay it and those who choose it. Having no control over the NBS and not having control over the money, that means the money's out of social control. That means that when this home here, the highest legislative one, has no control, someone else is unauthorized and, most fearsome, in its own interest, it certainly has. What kind of control it had showed to throw away those who at the expense of that and such work in fact showed positive financial effects legally, and I'm not going to talk about the illegals right now. The effect of a successful governor and successful monetary policy is this: in this country, you can't live without credit, in this country you don't get a salary that ends with end-of-end, and in this country, rare are those who can, based on their own capital and their own money, develop business, business and look into the future. It's a fact, it's not a demagogy. We became modern by turning debt financing into the only and only way to live. Exceptions confirm this rule, exceptions to modest and exceptions to rare people living without credit, private and business. Why is that? Because Mr Jelasic never asked any questions, and he had to, and these are the effects of the economic policy of his party colleagues, his associates in the business, whether they agreed well or not. Such behaviour is the result of some of the consents that he gave to some banks to operate, work and run by some people, to close some banks, and to license others without objective criteria, and that it was solely decided by his discretionary right. I'll give you examples. The situation in which we are located is also the result of the responses that are left behind, why is such a monetary policy being conducted, and whether the governor thinks that the diversity of access to monetary policy is not only evidence, not only in the balance sheets of the National Bank, not only in the annual reports, final accounts, but also in what he said, very often appearing as an interesting figure to journalists in all the media in print and electronic. For example, Governor Jelasic agreed that the director of a bank should be a man who has been punished for misappropriating himself, who is being punished before the Securities Commission, in a very significant state business. Mr. Slavko Caric, as director of "Sinerji Capital" in the sale of "National Savings", one of the biggest frauds Mladjan Dinkic still believes is perfect, and I assure him that he is not, and in which Mr Dinkic and the team around him from the National Bank were involved, led by Nikola Zivanovic, Mr. Caric, together with all of them, were never punished for proven software fraud, when they disabled other customers by the method of stopping time to appear as buyers of actions that day, and in 2005, when the sale to the Greek bank and "EFG" action was made, at a significant price of 670,000 for one action. To remind you, the bank has been falsely representing itself as a state-owned "National Savings Bank", created on the capital of the shut down Social Accounting Service, where several individuals have earned huge money. Punitive for this proven fraud, proven broker Ana Lukic, but not Slavko Caric, who admitted that, apparently, by card Ana Lukic, he had just committed the fraud of stopping time. A state in which the governor of the National Bank, who is authorized to give consent to a new bank run by a man who, go to the website "Belegs Ju", now rs, at the date of August 16, will find the decision I'm talking about and see that the man who was accused, who was proven to have been cheating, was given to run a large and significant business bank. That is why the timely announced director of HVB, then as governor of the National Bank, Mr. Jelasic, refused to give consent to the "Convers Group" from Russia to enter the financial market of this country. This is just an illustrative example of how much Mr. Jelasic adhered to the rules of the profession, the law and the well-meaning of good business practices when he decided to give consent to the appointment of people. The way he was just acting when he asked the state's reserve, the interest on which they were cashed, where they are, maybe we'll find out someday, and hopefully that day will come soon. As Governor Jelasic explained in 2006 his policy of the reference interest rate, where, as today, they exclusively earned commercial and business banks trading with him as the National Bank, because it is the National Bank. He said, "The Monetary Committee is not a party, I have nothing to consult, and that's a new law, him and some future governor, now given through legal law, so he can decide for himself, possibly by phone, and if he doesn't find them on the phone, he can decide for himself everything that matters to all of us Serbian citizens. In 2006, he said he had no dilemma about what kind of politics he should be leading. When they said he was guilty of making the dinar stronger and the euro weak, he said: 'Come on, he says, we should leave the daily-political and economic sphere for a moment. What would it mean if the exchange rate was worth a hundred dinars? What would that mean for the National Bank of Serbia? If at any cost, he said, he was buying foreign exchanges to maintain that price, we would increase foreign exchange reserves daily, but they would pump up huge sums of dinars. What about them? Let inflation degrade them or sterilize them. With what? High interest and mandatory reserve. The current interest rate on repo surgery, he says, would go from 18% to 22% or 25%, and with it interest. Whoever stands for the higher rate of the euro wants a set of money, high foreign reserves and all possible restrictive measures of monetary and credit policy. Is that what we need? Of course not, but in Serbia everyone knows everything, from football, politics, through agriculture to banking, and about the course not to talk. ''This same governor Jelasic in 2006 spoke against what was real in 2008, with one big difference, that we are today in the conditions of a huge economic crisis and a lack of inflow of foreign direct investment, in much more scarce conditions, when the governor stopped allowing those he had been finely pouring out of the pockets of the National Bank, i.e. From Serbia's budget to their pockets huge profits. Didn't hypocrisy say today that he was a successful governor and that he was defending himself against influence? Of which influence was defended and who today is willing to appreciate Governor Jelasic for how much he's lost to all of us, and for whom he's won and on this basis makes him a victim, successful or unsuccessful, let the citizens of Serbia evaluate him. What is the result of Mr Jelasic's reform in monetary policy? A huge inflow of speculative capital. With its interest policy, which is not incomprehensible to any citizen who is today forced to take care of his home budget, he allowed the National Bank to print repo paper and to collect fantastic interest in the dinar cash registers of the National Bank of Serbia at an effective rate of 19.35% annually. It was nominally 17.75%. Since that wasn't enough, because they were used to rates in 2006 to 24%, and targeted inflation was 12%, look at that nonsense, you say you're going to defend 12% inflation, and you're giving a 24% interest on the country's safest charters, speculative capital then began to run from dinar cash registers into the euro. That's what we've got today. Speculative capital rather buys the euro than the records, and that pressure is the one we all feel on the foreign exchange market, but, my dear gentlemen and respected citizens, we feel it differently. Someone's made a cut in profits, so it's from enormous and safe profits, I'm talking about this sector and these individuals, and we've all become bigger wars for credit, bigger wars for licking. Take a look at the overcrowded salaries of returned cars, and see how the mortgages for the apartment are realized in the loss of jobs that are once again the result of this poorly-run monetary policy. Ask yourself whether the halo angel belongs to the governor who left and who left with a smile on his face, primarily because the law, by the will of 126 MPs, allowed him and his associates to never, ever, after leaving the governor's post, to be held accountable for the damage that had been done to the National Bank, to any insurance company, to any commercial banks, or to the budget of the Republic, or to all of us. What is the sin of the new governor, and on the subject of damage to the budget and on the subject of the apparent failure of Mr Jelasic? In the DRI report on the part of the 22nd report, which you all have, which produced the storm in the public, we have the information that according to the provisions of the NBS Act, all the assets used by the National Bank, all deposits, foreign exchange, dinar, short-term and other assets of the Republic of Serbia and to which it belongs, and that the Republic of Serbia, through its budget, was to benefit from the 2008 budget. I'm talking about what we have a report from the audit institution, but for what we have the National Bank report. The national bank of Serbia has not realised a portion of the surplus income over expenditure, which by law makes the income of the Republic of Serbia's budget under Articles 73 and 77, nor has it paid for the benefit of the Republic of Serbia's budget a single dinar. Even, and she was obliged to account for 2.5% of the interest rates on an annual basis, to what is called the Treasury's account, where all the money of the Republic of Serbia is being managed monthly at that annual rate and that the salary, please pay attention, up to 20 per month for the previous month. The agreement on these relations was concluded retroactively on 31.12.2008, meaning on the last day of December, which only carried out an irregularity conqualification, so the contract did not exist, and the dinar or euro was not transferred to the Republic of Serbia's budget. The foreign exchange interest was attributed to that successful bank, which had no place to transfer them to the budget, which at that time, and yesterday, is due to new loans, with commercial banks, under expensive conditions, at the IMF for foreign reserve coverage of such a policy, in friendly Russia, it was written yesterday in preamble to credit with Russia, where if it is late to pay double interest, and in the report of the National Bank Council, whose member and president was the newly proposed candidate for governor, we get a report that in fact the NBS, which is so successful, with a profit center called the Office for Making Money, which does everything, from recipes to traffic license plates, does not actually have liquid funds that will transfer the budget and they all work together to convince the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the public and that they do not get any income from Serbia. The budget in debt, the high fees of members of the Board of Governors, their unity fantastic, only we citizens somehow don't know the unrealised salary to use, so we can pay the electricity, pay the tax and settle our obligations. What did Mr Jelasic not teach us, along with Šoštic, this virtual, some unusual skill to live and not have, because what we had ruined to the limit?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43153	The People's Messenger Vlajko Senic has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43154	The President-in-Office, honourable MPs, I think today's quality of the debate must make all of us think about how to improve this serious debate anyway. I agree with some of my predecessors, and during this session I also spoke with the Secretary of the Assembly, we need to find a way for people we choose for such serious functions, responsible, with a six-year deadline, to find business opportunities to give them the opportunity to turn to us, to talk to them, to have a quality discussion. In this way, this election by the governor of the NBS, in addition to being promoted by the fact that we no longer formally propose it as members of the Finance Committee, but as president of the state, which is a logical and good solution, to raise this debate by another level, not only when we talk about the governor, but about all other significant functions chosen by the National Assembly, and we are in a situation that we are in a position that we are practically with the people we have to choose in the tide we cannot conduct the debate. I am convinced that after the election of the new governor, and this is also an opportunity to say that Mr. Soskic will have all the support of our election group, he will probably have the opportunity to talk to the Assembly, explain his programme, introduce us to his ideas and thus justify the support we have given him as the ruling coalition. It is certain that he will have sufficient support to be elected to the new governor of the NBS. I think the better quality of the debate would also contribute to greater public confidence in both the National Bank and the new governor of the NBS. As for the outgoing governor of the National Bank, I would say that things that are normal always happen in Serbia, which is that people get commended for their work only when they leave their post. During all the years they've been running a function, and I'm talking for example. about Governor Jelasic, they are most often under strong pressure, public coup and those who have nothing to say about their work, but most often incompetent and semi-literate, who have absolutely no knowledge of it. I'm not even going to idolatry the praise of outgoing Governor Jelasic. I will just say that the job he was chosen to do was very good and very correct, that by law his basic duty was to safeguard monetary stability, to ensure the functioning of the financial sector and that Serbia in the past two years, as a country that could not avoid the effects of the global economic crisis, had both real and virtual stress tests through which all our banks went through, where it was seen that the banking system in Serbia was one of the few sectors fully reformed in a way that allows us to meet EU standards. In some sense, it should be a model that in some other sectors of economy, economy, and I would say to society, we need to establish fully clear standards that will allow the quality of life in Serbia to gradually draw closer to the quality of life in better EU countries, which, I believe, we all strive together, whether we are MPs of ruling or opposition parties. It is also the theme of today's life in Serbia. Some predecessors spoke of living hard in Serbia today. It should be said that citizens are not satisfied with the economic situation, that most citizens today say that they are unsatisfactory, more than they are satisfied with the economic situation, that citizens' expectations about some economic performances and their personal and national performances are not so optimistic, and that, I would say, something that as MPs, we cannot ignore. We have been elected in the elections to represent citizens, the government has been chosen to work in the interests of citizens and during its mandate, and we as MPs and governments, which we as MPs have chosen, must listen to, I would say, the mood or the mood of citizens, and that it works much better and better to solve all the problems our country faces. In this respect, the additional quality of the work of NBS governors and the quality of the banking sector in Serbia is proof that things in Serbia can still be at European level, regardless of the state's formality in the EU. It should be recalled that before Jelasic there were governors, that the banking system in Serbia had practically come out of the ashes, that in addition to the need to create a whole new banking system, the state had an obligation and to repay the debts of the previous banking system, which was not a banking system and where there was no NBS, it represented, I would say, an extended arm of the government of the Republic of Serbia and had absolutely no independence. When we talk about today that there is no absolute independence of the NBS, it should be said that the situation may not be ideal, but all of this should be viewed as one process and see where we started 10 years ago, where we are today, and where we would find that such things still didn't start from a dead spot. This is the third part of my presentation, which concerns the doubts that many MPs have raised on the NBS bill, whether a reduction in the authority of the NBS governor will contribute to losing the independence of the NBS institution. I would say that the man we're proposing and the fact that we've been considering a proposal for the President of the NBS Council, that the proposal will appear in the Assembly. We will certainly have to vote for the governor of the NBS to elect President of the NBS Council, because the president of the NBS Council remains at the helm until his successor is elected, so that we can warn the situation of Dejan Soskic being both governor and president of the Council. I expect that before the governor's election we will elect President of the Council. So, the submitted candidacy and the proposal to head the NBS Council is, in my opinion, a guarantee that eliminates the doubts that we had eventually during the debate on how, for example, they will. The NBS Council, on a proposal from the Executive Board and the Government of the NBS, shall establish a course regime. I don't think we should all have any dilemma together that Serbia will certainly not be a country that will have a fixed exchange rate, regardless of whether it's someone's political or economic interest, that Serbia will certainly not be a country where foreign reserves will be used for political interests and for a pre-election campaign. After all, we are one of the first states to sign before the IMF crisis begins, and we have, I would say, an international supervisory of our monetary policy. And if there are once reasonable doubts that some of our officials and politicians will behave, would they succumb to the temptation to use foreign exchange reserves for political purposes or for a political campaign, the work of the NBS as institutions in the past ten years, an agreement with the IMF, and one responsibility for all of us as people who support the government and people who are today members of the government are forcing us to conclude that, of course, no one can think of playing with some of the standards and levels achieved and that returning to that time is absolutely impossible. Besides, there's the public, there's the professional public, there's the National Assembly, which at any time can control and ask questions from that area. What has not been fully achieved, and what outgoing Governor Jelasic said during his interviews in the last few weeks, I do not think we have all been able to properly present to the citizens what the NBS institution is, which are its tasks, which is its role and I am glad that the new law on NBS precisely defines that the basic task of NBS is to target inflation and, afterwards, other tasks, primarily the stability of the financial system. The government's tasks are different, the government has to solve a huge unemployment problem, the government has to solve the problem of the external trade deficit, the government and solve, and it will be even better in the coming period, the issue of increased exports. In this sense, it is important that the citizens of Serbia and the new governor do not expect that he will have any magic wand through which he will be able to play with the course regime and change it in a way contrary to basic economic logic, which is the logic of supply and demand. I hope that the new governor will also be free of that personal pressure, which was very exposed to Radovan Jelasic, that he is responsible for the course and that he has to solve the problem. As for the coming governor of the NBS, of course, full of our support and voting day. The message to Mr. Soskic is that the day for the vote may be the last day when he depends on politicians, from us in the Assembly, that after that we choose him for one period of six years and that he should use previous experiences and that he is fully independent, in collaboration with his partners, led by the NBS. If so, they will have absolute and full support for G17 plus and for their choice and for their work.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43155	Ten minutes and 45 seconds of time have been used by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Rade Obradovic's MP has the word, followed by MP Dragan Šormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43156	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, we have an extremely important agenda today. We need to discuss a proposal for a candidate for governor, one of the most important institutions each state has. All those institutions that correspond to the National Assembly, of all these institutions, the Government and the National Bank, are certainly the most important ones and depend on them for the stability of the financial system, and thus the entire state. It is particularly important that today's debate be high because it is our task, the task of the National Assembly is to allow all that the NBS does to create trust in that institution. The law can be good or bad, but the best law is never a defense and it is no guarantee that this trust will be created. This debate and the very way the governor will be elected depends on how he goes and how the institution continues to operate. We have received, by amending the NBS Act, the obligation of the President of the Republic to propose a candidate for governor. The President of the Republic sent us a biography of the governor's candidate. First and foremost, in order to trust that institution, is the governor of the NBS personal or is it a program issue? Do we need to give unlimited trust to someone based on his biography or should we still hear some programming things for the most important institution in the country? We here have a proposed biography that is very good and very good for a man who is forty years old. He graduated from high school, taught at prestigious universities, wrote a large number of books, but in this biography there is not a single word about anything about his job as governor of the NBS. So the question is, what's this debate supposed to look like, should we discuss biography or should we discuss not knowing what else? If you look at the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we are forbidden to say things that concern private life. It's just not appropriate to talk about things that concern anyone's private life. We should discuss the biography, and we, apart from newspaper statements, don't know what the candidate's position for governor is on any of the issues concerning his job as governor. I've never talked about the personal characteristics of anyone, I'm not doing it today. Why would he talk about things that are indisputable? I've read some of the books, I've known Mr. Šoškovic for a very long time and I have no objection to his professional work at the university, but what I'm interested in is what his views on all the key issues and problems Serbia has and which he will have to solve from the moment he is elected. The other thing that's controversial, that's a key question, we might be voting on the basis of his programme to propose a candidate for governor. We want the NBS to be independent and independent. A way of voting and how it affects political interference in the whole thing. Why weren't we given a chance to vote for the governor's candidate? If we'd heard the program, if we'd heard what he stood for, there was absolutely a great chance that we might be voting for that candidate. 'Now this is how we should vote on the basis of the biography. This is not realistically possible in any serious democratic system. So politics got involved. At the moment the vote is held, the way it is voted will say to what extent policy has been involved in the election itself. What were we interested in hearing from the governor's candidate? A team before we heard from the government, from the coalition that proposed him, that he put out a program for them. Because there were more candidates for the governor. They said, the people of the ruling majority, individual ministers, would choose on the basis of a programme that would be their candidate. Therefore, they had the opportunity to hear what the governor's position was on certain issues, and the MPs who should be told about it do not have the opportunity to hear it. The National Bank has clearly defined objectives, unlike the Government. The objectives of the National Bank are clearly defined by the National Bank Act, and the government has no clearly defined objectives. No law defines what a government program is. It's this fundamental struggle between the People's Bank and the Government, every country, and this one of ours. The government is using money to buy social peace, using money to buy votes. As a result, increased public spending has been increased. Just look at the agreement with the IMF, the only solid document that exists regarding the government's programme. It had to be revised for the simple reason that economic policy was not as planned, because revenues were less than they should have been, because expenditure remained at the same level and the result was an increased deficit, i.e. increased borrowing. There is then a fundamental question that we have no answer to today – what are the personal reasons why Governor Jelasic left? What are these personal reasons? The first time Mr. Jelasic and the National Bank showed complete independence, he suffered serious pressure. His departure is, when we look at what happened in those few months after he left, it's pretty clear what personal reasons he had to go for. Another question that we will face and will face safely and the National Bank, with all those instruments it has to implement – is such a deficit sustainable? Will the deficit that exists in our system, the budget deficit, be able to survive in this, but also in the coming years? The deficit is primarily a reflection of economic policy. The question is what border Serbia will be able to be in debt to. Look at what's happened the last few months. On the domestic market, there's no way we're in debt anymore. In July, all the auctions were quite unsuccessful. You're gonna have to look for a new borrowing model. Is the only model of economic policy filling the budget? Is the sole objective of economic policy to realise the budget? What's going to happen to everyone else, that has nothing to do with it. It is clear that in the months to come, interest will have to rise. Because apparently at these interest rates no one will give money to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The answer to that is the growth of interest rates. The answer to the growth of interest rates is all that follows – the lower position of businesses, the lower employment, the decline in living standards and all that results. What will the National Bank's response be to that thing? How will the National Bank react to the growth of interest rates? It is a key issue at the moment for all of us and for all of Serbia's citizens. We have no answer to that question. The key question is why are loans so expensive? Well, no one can be more in debt than the state. Everyone knows that in every country, the state owes itself at the lowest interest rates, and everyone is in debt at higher interest rates. Like it or not, but dinar interest rates are a real reflection of the economy. Let go of the interest rates that are tied to a solid currency. See how much interest has jumped on loans that have been tied to the euro and to the Swiss franc. We can talk about our economy whatever we want, when we look at what the interest rates are, then you'll understand what state we're in and what we need to solve. What will be of particular interest to us is – what is the answer to the policy of the course? What is the limit to the sustainability of this relationship to the course? The National Bank sold a billion and a half euros and did not stop the fall in course. Because the fall in course is not only the result of interbank trade, but also a reflection of the blood count of an economy. Now the question arises – could these billions and a half of euros have been used better? Should the course defend more aggressively, so try to stop it, or should we apply some other policy? A billion and a half euros were spent, the course today is on record level. The second question – what is the limit to which the National Bank will be able to intervene? Because if you have a current balance that has such a negative, then it's clear that adjustment must be resolved through a course when you don't have a foreign capital inflow. What's the limit when the National Bank won't be able to intervene anymore? A billion and a half euros is practically an entire arrangement with the IMF. Then what's going on? Of course, we have 10 comas some billion foreign exchange reserves, but whose assets are these? Can all these funds be used to defend the course? The other thing is, what are the costs of our borrowing? Because we had a story about us not being a highly in charge of the country, that there's no problem in serviceing our obligations, but look now, the course is changing, we're in debt in foreign currency, and none of these trustees from abroad are going to receive dinars. Anyway, when it's time to give them back that loan, they're looking for the currency we're in charge of. It's the same story with the IMF agreement. Is it public debt or not public debt? That's the least important. The question is, what happens when we get that money back? Will they accept the dinars and say, "Come on, give us the dinars, so you don't have any interference, or will the National Bank have to buy the foreign exchange market again in order to pay them back?" So what happens to course, inflation, and standard of living? All these answers to the questions we expected to hear from the governor's candidate. What will the fiscal responsibility law look like? What does the National Bank have to say about the limits that exist, which should be defined, regarding politics, the fiscal responsibility law? Is the fiscal liability law going to help or will it help the National Bank? Is this advice to the National Bank, with such powers, going to help the governor or is it going to make his work more difficult? How will the governor fight for the independence and independence of the National Bank? In what way will they fight to avoid interference by the government, the businessmen and all those who interfered in the work of the governor? I remind you that Mr Jelasic was one of the officials of the state mentioned in the worst light until he resigned. From the moment he resigned, I don't remember a statement or an article that criticised his work. What does Mr. Shoskic think of all this? How will Mr. Soskic fight for deeuroisation, since the basic question is why is everything indexed in the euro in Serbia? How will they fight for trust, because there's the key again in trust? If the citizens of Serbia had confidence in the dinar, they would not have priced and expressed everything else in euros. The story here is very simple. It's easy to speak with general formulas. In what way will Mr. Soskic fight the pulsism that awaits us in the second half of the government's mandate? Look at what's going on with the projects, what's going on with all the stuff that's going on a lot? In what way will the National Bank be defended by the populism that follows by the government? Finally, I would like to repeat one of the things that, I am sure, is crucial both for the independence and independence of the National Bank and for everything that awaits us – Mr. Soskovic, on the basis of the announcement from the ruling majority, it is not disputed that he will be elected, but he comes as the governor who will be elected after all the governors have left before him after 2000. No governor has welcomed the end of his term since 2000. They were either replaced, or they resigned. We'll see how his six-year term ends. Based on what we've seen and on what this session points to, I don't see that things are going to move any better, and these are going to be worse for the citizens of Serbia than they are today.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43157	12 minutes and 50 seconds of time have been used by the deputy president of the parliamentary group. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43158	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I will not support the election day of Mr. Šoškovic's election as governor of the NBS, we have seen the reasons for the previous presentations, and also because of this way he was proposed to the National Assembly, in accordance with the new law that we recently passed, and when I spoke, I was against that law, as an independent MP. There are two strong reasons for this: first, the departure of Governor Jelasic, who is explained for personal reasons we have never heard of who they are. These days we can see what personal reasons these are, at least in the last ten days Governor Jelasic has given several interviews, which in writing, to electronic media. One of his findings was well remembered, which is that there are politicians in the state of Serbia who think they can and should interfere in everything and know they're doing everything, and when you let them know they shouldn't interfere in your business, then they let you know that you won't do the job anymore. I literally heard it from Mr. Jelasic's mouth the other day in a conversation relaxed on a television set that has a national frequency. In other words, so he told some politician -- he can't do it, he told him -- well, then you won't do it anymore. Surely it was not an opposition politician, because opposition politicians mainly criticised Jelasic and said it was not good what he was doing, but did not have opportunities, because they do not have a majority in parliament to replace him. It must have been done by someone in the ruling majority. The second reason is, here, we've already heard more arguments about why we don't even know why Mr. Shoskovic should choose. His résumé we got is all we got. That résumé says it's about an excellent theorist, a man who's been working at college, who hasn't even been out of college since he got into college. He's an emergency professor now. Since 2009, it's been a year and a few days in the NBS Council. So there's not enough to gain a certain experience, and he's never worked in the banking sector or in the economy, there's no practical experience. The third reason, we didn't hear his program, and we didn't hear if the NBS policy was going to change. It may have been like this or the policy course relationship was good to the economic crisis, but today it is more than clear that it is not good, for the simple reason that banks today buy the euro for more than 107 dinars. That's the situation today. Nothing helps the attitude towards the economy. When we talked about the new bill, I talked about it two or three times. I've been dealing with Mr. Jelasic. I couldn't hear anything from Mr. Shoskovic because he's not here now. I was saying that serious businessmen, especially those who export, some of them export minds, who say the same thing, which is hard to understand here obviously, are hard to understand that there are companies with us that export brains rather than goods, and there are. And they're talking about this flexible course and saying that it takes a predictable course for the economy to function, at least in some way predictable, that the economy could make annual plans and that it could work. We got an answer that fits the speculators. What does that have to do with anything? It's whether it's under the law or not. What are those terms?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43159	Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives answering for a word? Yeah. National MP Momo Colaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43160	Dear Vice-Presidents, honourable MPs, the PUPS parliamentary group in the principle debate on the National Bank Law proposal supported solutions that change certain relations related to the functioning of the National Bank, also related to the election of governors of the National Bank. In this context, we will not repeat what we have said, because we have agreed that the National Bank Act is adopted in the voting day and in that sense we will give that support. When it comes to the resolution of the governor of the National Bank, we will also respect Mr Jelasic's request and vote in favour of his resolution. The assessment of his work and relations in general, we have made several suggestions, suggestions and remarks regarding the debate on the National Bank. I wouldn't talk about it at this point. The thing is to look at what Mr. Jelasic did, but in that context I think a positive assessment can be carried out. When it comes to a proposal to elect a new governor of the National Bank, the PUPS parliamentary group will also support the republic's president's proposal to elect Mr. Soskic as governor. What we have learned about the candidate for the new governor is in a positive sense, especially on several occasions regarding his statements and participation in some professional broadcasts on radio and particularly several professional articles that went public. We believe that the new governor should follow what has been proposed to amend and supplement the law. In this respect, we estimate that it will have a positive impact, above all on monetary policy and changes that follow about this law. In this regard, we will also vote in the voting day for the resolution of the current governor and for the election of the new governor of the National Bank.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43161	Two minutes and 30 seconds of time have been used by the president of the parliamentary group. Is anyone else answering for a word from the president or the authorised representatives? No, I don't. On the basis of Article 27, I would like to remind the MPs and to inform the public about the course of this session, and to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The presence of candidates for the governor of the National Bank of Serbia is not businessly possible at this session. Article 73 of the amendment and addition of the Law on the National Bank, which will regulate or regulate the obligations of candidates for governor after the vote, so when elected, in its last and last position clearly states its obligations and obligations to the National Assembly when it comes to monetary policy. So, the governor at the National Assembly explains the monetary policy programme and the report from this member, not at the National Assembly session. The National Assembly may not provide any instructions on the basis of a submitted monetary policy programme and submitted reports from this member. According to the current Rules of Procedure, dialogue could, widely interpret members of the Rules of Procedure, but could take place on the basis of Article 51. Rules of Procedure, i.e. the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs, in which the credit and monetary and banking system is competent. Under the provisions of the new Rules of Procedure, it is up to all of us to arrange for this session to take place in the future, depending on what the amendments, or what they will look like at the end, after the vote, the overall text of the Rules of Procedure which is currently in the procedure, was the first item of the agenda. Therefore, there is no business opportunity for a candidate for governor to be present, as there is no legal possibility for the National Assembly to give instructions to the governor for monetary policy, and based on the programme delivered. It's the law we all passed. I'm giving an additional notice because I don't think I should remove any doubt that I agree with the greater role of the National Assembly, so any kind of proposal for a new Rules of Procedure will be more than well welcomed when it comes to me. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing, and with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups DSS, SNS and SRS. The three parliamentary groups have filed a joint and single search report on the 12th and 13th agendas. The first registered speaker is Zoran Nikolic, followed by MP Jorvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43162	Today, the choice of governors of the National Bank of Serbia is on the agenda, but let's look at what has been happening to us in the past four or five months, or to do one chronological but logical analysis, from the moment of resignation of the former Governor Jelasic. He resigned on March 23rd, or at a press conference, informed the public that he would resign. Until today, it is unclear why Mr Jelasic resigned. It was a surprise for both the economic and the political public, and Mr Jelasic seems to have remained obliged to give a precise answer why he did it. What happened to us after that? It happened to us that the resignation governor, Mr. Jelasic, had come to this parliament and defended the new Law on the National Bank of Serbia. Is that logical? I don't think so, because it's natural for someone to resign and leave the job of a new law on the National Bank to the new governor. If, by the Constitution, we had an obligation to bring legislation into line, so, among other things, and to pass the National Bank Act, then it should have been done a year or two ago, so that interregnum of a month or two was certainly not of crucial and crucial importance to adopt that law at that very moment. Unfortunately, we as parliament have participated in this illogical situation, too, to discuss the law with the governor who has already resigned. Today we have a proposal to elect a new governor, Mr. Dejan Šoškovic. The promoter is gone, that's the President of the Republic. We are in front of ourselves, therefore, in a place where authorised proposings sit, where ministers, where the government sits, have no one. Is that common, not to say, the normal situation in this House? I think we'll all agree it's not. There's no Mr. Dejan Shoskovic. We heard a reason why he wasn't here, that he was still a candidate. I can take that as a logical answer, but what's also illogical is that we're here to discuss the election of a new governor, specifically Mr. Dejan Soskovic, and we don't have a program on which to choose a new governor. So, the new governor, twice before his election, was kind of octroised. He is not allowed to propose a new law on the National Bank of Serbia, which would be quite logical, and he is not allowed to inform as MPs of a programme based on which he will act and work in the coming period. When we take all of this out and present it, then it's no wonder that the atmosphere in parliament, when we talk about the election of a new governor, is what it is. This atmosphere in this parliament speaks of the hopelessness of the situation in the Serbian economy and in Serbian finances. Certainly, the atmosphere is not optimistic and certainly that, with the election of the new governor of the National Bank of Serbia, we cannot expect any improvement or prosperity. The goals of the National Bank of Serbia are known, it is price stability, other functions of the National Bank of Serbia, and monetary policy, monetary policy setting, the conduct of a dinar course policy, etc., and it is known that the National Bank of Serbia, by law, should be independent and independent. We also had amendments to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, so in these amendments, which were adopted, we saw that the monetary committee, or now the executive board of the National Bank of Serbia, has more powers than the previous case and the interpretation of the law, and I do not think I am absolutely wrong, this executive board will be able to amend certain decisions that the future governor would possibly make. Is this right or not, is this in favour of the independence and independence of the governors and strengthening the position of the National Bank of Serbia, which should, as a rule, be transferred, or independent and in areas for which it is legally authorised, to lead this policy beyond the Government of the Republic of Serbia and other influences? I don't think that bill and that decision-making is going that way. The Law on the National Bank of Serbia, in Article 28, speaks of who cannot be governor, vice governor, member of the executive board. Article 1 states that there cannot be MPs in the National Assembly, members of the Government, officials of political organisations, or members of the bodies of units of local self-government, trade union organisations, members of administrative or supervisory committees, or external bank associates, other financial organisations and audit organisations or other legal entities that control or cooperate with the National Bank of Serbia in their functions. Let's look at it in the light of the performance of the proposed candidate for governor, Mr. Dejan Šoškovic. Was he president of the National Bank of Serbia Council? Yes, it is. Was he also an adviser to the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia? Yes, it is. I'm sorry, but article 28 strictly forbids it. So we are discussing a candidate who, by law, under Article 28, should be prevented from running for this post at all. Let's take a look at some of the other council members. Let's just say, Professor... Nenad Vunjak, a member of the National Bank of Serbia Council. Does he have a certain political function in this country? There are, gentlemen, MPs and respected citizens of Serbia. Professor Nenad Vunnjak is president of the SPS parliamentary group at the AP Vojvodina Assembly. If it isn't, let someone deny me. It's an even more drastic violation of article 28 of this law. Now, based on everything I've said, based on everything that's been happening to us since Mr Jelasic's resignation, we need to believe that the functioning of the National Bank of Serbia and the newly elected governor will be independent and independent. In the debate on the National Bank of Serbia, I said this was an attempt to put the National Bank of Serbia under political control. In the 1990s, we are reminded of what is happening in the country when politics, or government, wants to put under the control of the National Bank of Serbia. We all know what happened to us back then, and all the citizens know how much poorer they've come out of those 1990s. I don't want to argue, but I have the right to be afraid, like all citizens of Serbia, given the duty of citizens, that nothing good will happen to us with this kind of election and governor, and members of the executive board and all the bodies of the National Bank of Serbia, because apparently the government wants to put under its paw this extremely important institution that must, by law and not only by the logic of things, be independent and independent in its functioning. For this reason, to conclude, I think that when we don't know what the future governor's programme is, when we don't have the opportunity, which is another act of demeaning this Parliament, to discuss certain issues with him, then it is clear to us that even the transparency of the functioning of the National Bank of Serbia will not be at the highest possible level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43163	Thank you. Ten minutes and 15 seconds of Parliament time. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43164	Dear fellow Members of the Parliament, honourable citizens, we have just received the explanation of Mrs Comic, in light of her view of the business inability to address us as a candidate for governor, i.e. why the former governor cannot be here and explain, or answer our questions. I am convinced that this is just her sighting, because it is the possibility that the President of the Assembly invites certain persons to the assembly session, it could have been a little more intense to interpret and allow Mr Jelasic to share with us here his views and views on topics that are important to all of us. If he couldn't find himself, as Mr. Soskovic couldn't, then I don't see any reason not to find a proposing here among us, because we like to see our president, who does such a serious thing, made an effort to get the right to propose a candidate by law. Then it's really not the level of jokes when Mr. Rade Obradovic says that we are here discussing a biography or we should discuss in fact a programme that needs to be delivered to us by the future governor. Big differences between what Mr. Jelasic and Mr. Soskovic did, I just don't see it. It's like being replaced by a director in a company, and his most trusted associate or deputy becomes a Caliph instead of a Caliph now. I see that the co-operation that existed at the level of the Council and the governor will probably be continued, because the movement of the course, the melting of foreign exchange reserves, which from the beginning of the year until the other day reached the amount of a billion and a half euros spent on stabilising the course, which has not been stabilised, but is still falling, although every morning, with information about high temperatures, you are fuelled by information about the lowest value of the dinar compared to the euro since the euro was introduced, I don't know if there are any irreparable optimists who can believe in change. What it is is a fact and an opportunity to get me instead of the one who was supposed to do it, which is one balance that this governor found, and what he's leaving with, is the information I want to take out. No, I'm not talking about the size of the squares of the house he bought, the price at which it was bought, the tax he paid. It is the work of some others, but it is also the subject of the moral relationship of one governor, who has thus proved that the work is well paid and profitable work. As much as it's a regular relationship, it's really not my place to judge. It is up to me to compare the state of the debt of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to abroad, and then we called ourselves that, as of 30 June 2002, is a copy of the National Bank of Yugoslavia's website. So it's no fictitious data, where the total debt in millions of dollars was ten thousand 996 million, or $10.9 billion. The list includes all creditors, from international creditors, the Paris Club, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, commercial banks, or the London Club, absolute governments, according to individual creditors, the debt amounts to a total of $10.9 billion. Today, one methodology tries to serve the representatives of the Ministry of Finance's government, similar methodology tries to fool us that we are not a highly-indebted country and representatives of the National Bank, and I will use the credit to maintain the amount of foreign reserves, meaning someone we respected to take money from it, the IMF, to use the simple data they provide. IMF officials say we are at a key border in 2010 and say that at the end of 2009, we had an external debt ratio of 76.3% to GDP. So, no statement on what the authorities are trying to say is 23% to 30% and that this will be 85.6% in 2010, and in 2011 as much as 90.4%. This is the data that was released on 3 November 2009, the author of the text will not tell you, why I would advertise the interviewer, but it is about the IMF's estimates, without new responsibilities, meaning with existing responsibilities and interest obligations in 2011 it means 90% of GDP. The people would say that all we produce is actually almost the value of the debt we're in charge of. Nothing is better when it comes to export and external debt ratios and at the end of 2009, it was 282%, so the debt is up 2.8 times the export debt. It estimates that in 2010, the external debt will exceed exports three times and that Serbia is already in a group of really high-indebted countries. The hand that gives is always under the hand that takes the money. It's an old and well-known saying that the one, and it's called the IMF, that hand above which it gives, will still evaluate where and for what purposes the money we make ourselves, because they give us money to keep foreign reserves, or their reputation for further borrowing. What do I mean by that? Regardless of all the respect of the IMF, as a creditor who tries, and is rich and changing, wanting to remain a factor of the stability that profites and earns, because it is not a charity, we in this country need to ask ourselves, is our economic policy actually foreign policy? If in 2009, we paid 15 billion dinars for both the fascinating and smart policies of repo paper governors, how much we gave to business banks for repo paper. When the absent governor tells me, no, it's not repo paper and open market, open market operations aren't a show, I say, because it's economic practice and science, that interest is on what open market operations do for money emissions. But not by printing metal coins and bills, but through this kind of show that the National Bank is doing in the electronic era of business, by, for example, approving a larger amount of credit or paying interest, without showing anyone the bills, whether or not it printed, or broadcast on an account there called money in circulation, electronic, jury, as it used to say, virmanic, not cash, in fact, money emissions and the creation of direct inflation against which it allegedly fights. So these dinars came out of the market and warmed up the demand for foreign exchanges. The national bank that fights inflation presses unmeasured and not sufficiently precise surplus money, which raises inflation or by withdrawing repo money from the market, when it says there is too much, and no one has brought it here, but it is printing it and making a decision on it, then it pays interest on those repo papers and that paid interest is direct emissions, a direct influence on inflation. They floated out into the market and pressured the euro, and that's why we all have a problem when we calculate our wars and our obligations indexed in the euro. I see the last governor didn't have a vision, but I'd like to ask a new, absent here, or at least his proposing, does anyone have a 2011 plan? When the Vienna Initiative ceases to apply, the Vienna Club or the Vienna Agreement, which is only a matter of moment when these banks, which have said they will maintain the level of credit ratings here, will be dissatisfied with the interest they receive on repo paper. Because the reference rate is falling, their earnings are getting smaller, and when they decide to withdraw, although we give them more favourable conditions for the mandatory reserve, which is not normal – because in the era of competition and the lack of that fourth pillar that we have to build, that competition exists in every area, or in finance, or in the financial market – you cannot give the members of the Vienna Initiative or the agreement more favourable conditions for the mandatory reserve, and the other banks more unfavourable. But it was a modern-day governor who was leaving, so if those banks leave, do we have a plan for what this country will do when they retreat? Is the IMF still expected to help, or are we going to end talks with the IMF in the upcoming pre-election or election campaign, and we know how much this pre-election monetary policy cost? These are the most important questions that will depend on our standard and the life of each of us. So, the fundamental question is whether in 2011, and by the end of 2010, economic policy will actually be an external economic policy in which it will be important that we can repay our debts? The only point of the dispute Mr. Jelasic had with this government was that. He was pushing for early repayment of credit to the World Bank without anyone telling us where these loans went, how profitable and what was made of them. Any bridge, any infrastructure project, so we know why we're returning some loans. No, the governor advocated early repayment of credit, and some others advocated the NIP in the pre-election year – the National Investment Plan, where the governor openly mocked the purchase of benches and chairs as a realisation of the investment plan. He was rightly mocked to call it an investment plan, but he had no right to say why we should build and start schools in places where there are three or five students. It was cheaper that we bought them vans, so we could drive them to bigger and better schools. Is this now the regional policy of equating regional development led by his party colleague, and his function has been temporarily frozen, or Mr Dinkic, who would now be equating development and returning young people to hire them, to build schools for them? Politics such as or such by Governor Jelasic or his party colleague and those who remain silent, which are the pillar of this coalition, is just motivated by the not-long-term plan and by the long-term stable development of the state, not by greater employment, not by the safer lives of each of us as individuals, but by the political benefit in the election that follows. This is also seen from the results of monetary policy and from the debt situation that I am talking about here, and if you want directly from the analysis that the National Bank itself has done for itself and for its own needs, where it is well aware of how much the monetary mass has grown, and we have not printed it either myself or you, Mr. Novakovic, until there are innovations made to this extent to cover up a part of the funds with a particular aggregate now called transferable deposits. I'd like some financial expert to explain to me what these transferable deposits are within the monetary mass and aggregates that he managed to invent this governor. Or that's what it's called, for example. budget reserve, from which you can pay whatever you want, or at one time, which is the only objection to the work of the Social Accounting Service was once called pay traffic channels when the money was held somewhere for some needs, and it was spoken – the money in the payment channels, so it didn't arrive on the road from a point a) to point b). What lies behind these transferable deposits, I'm telling you that someone will have to explain one day, no matter how many paper cutters do, no matter how much fires or arson happens in certain depots that are obliged to keep history, which is for someone, not as my colleague said the mood of the public as awareness of bad life, but the state. When you're hungry and you don't know how you're going to escort your child on a field trip tomorrow or when you give up your vacation as a parent today so your children can go on vacation, it's not the mood. It is a situation for which there are direct culprits, and I argue, and this is only part of the paper that I write about history and claims, that abuses of monetary policy instruments are one of the basic reasons why Serbia is in this situation today.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43165	16 minutes and 30 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word is Mr. Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43166	Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, Dr. Shoskic is not present at this session. We've already heard the reasons. We're against it. However, from another point of view, we understand that his qualifications are much better than the previous governor, because he is a regular professor at the Faculty of Economics, he wrote several books and textbooks. What is not to say, there is a prominent family tradition, in this context and in this sense we believe that it is a happier solution, slightly said, than Jelasic, which did not have such qualifications. Also, we think it's still early to give some concrete evaluations about his work. He will have to show in the next period how capable he is of resisting various pressures and leading a policy that will not only be meeting the IMF, the World Bank and other related organisations, but also one of the policies of the National Bank of Serbia that will take into account and what is most important for us and for all citizens of Serbia, which is the social position and unemployment. No matter how many people from the National Bank have tried to prove to us that they have nothing to do with it and that it is the government's task, it is enough to look at the letter of intent, this since 10 June 2010 and the previous December 2009, and it will be seen that both letters, as well as the previous letters of intent, have been signed by the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, the prime minister and the finance minister. So, if the IMF sees them as one whole, it is completely illogical that they present themselves as having nothing to do with this joint work that reflects on all Serbian citizens. In this sense, Mr Jelasic said in his last interview for the weekly "Nin" since 15.7.2010 that he and candidate Soskovic agree in basic matters and even have the same opinion. In this context, we are asking a question, if so, and we hope not, whether Mr. Soskovic agrees that state-owned stakes in banks in Serbia should be liquidated. This is what Mr Jelasic committed on 13.12.2009 in the letter of intent. So that's that letter sent to the IMF President Mr. Stros Khan and it's repeated in an interview "Blica" 9.1. In 2010, where Jelasic again says the state is a bad owner. We're asking how is that possible, the moment the Austrian state nationalizes Hippo Alps? How is that possible when Sita Bank gets huge help from the state? How is it possible when in Russia the share of the state in the banking sector is increased by almost one quarter? How is it possible when the chairman of the Hipo Alpe Bank Management Board says they will withdraw from Germany, Ukraine, Hungary and concentrate on Austria, Slovakia, Croatia, BiH and Serbia? So something doesn't add up here, or it's about the NBS blindly filling those so-called. recommendations from the IMF or something that is completely contrary to modern and real flows in the financial system. We would also ask, if by any chance Mr. Šoštic were there, how is it possible that, in the light of the law that was discussed almost a month ago here, the model of the NBS is the European Central Bank. How is it possible if it is known that the official currency in Serbia is still not the euro, it is also not in all EU countries. Even Great Britain is not allowed to be part of the Executive Board of the European Central Bank because it does not apply the euro as an official currency. How is it possible for the European Central Bank to be taken as a model, as some kind of untouchable institution, when known as Article 11. The Statute of the European Central Bank that the European Parliament has no practical role to play in choosing the governor of the European Central Bank. Even that article 11 states that the European Parliament plays an advisory role. So, if this is a pattern, if these are European standards in practice that parliament should not choose the governor, then it is difficult to comment seriously. Nice to meet you, This European Central Bank is a fact-finding bank of four countries, which is Germany, which has 20% of the European Central Bank's capital, France around 14, Italy 12 and Spain's bank around 7, and this gives them the opportunity to block all decisions because they have over 50% of the capital. We think that this is a failure in the law and that this is a kind of bad example, and that based precisely on these European basic acts, such as the Mastricht Act, which has been called for by the central bank law, some measures and legal solutions that are in line with democracy and with real circumstances in the Republic of Serbia should be applied. It is more than scandalous and we hope that the future governor, since he is likely to be elected, Mr. Šoškovic will not work in such a sloppy way. We see that the last letter on intentions since 10 June 2010 literally states – ''a few amendments to the NBS law have been adopted, with the aim of harmonising it with the 2006 Constitution', etc., and then cite solutions from the law adopted on 20.9.2010. It states here that a law was passed only 19 days later. It's a scandal. It is simply amazing that the governor of the NBS thus refers to such a serious document, such as the letter of intent, and we hope that Mr. Šoškovic will do his job more seriously. We also hope that Mr. Soskovic, unlike Mr. Jelasic, will do something, since he has powers and has the majority behind him, that Serbia will not be a country that, together with Moldova, is the first on the negative interest-level list in Europe. It is totally scandalous that in Serbia, with such GDP, with wages that cannot be compared to Germany, Austria, Great Britain, there are interest rates precisely for these banks from those countries, which are several times higher than those in the countries of origin. This was once called interest or greening, and the future governor is obliged to stand in the way, not only for his professional function, but also for the protection of citizens. Also, it's just amazing that the interest on the dinar loans for the population has been growing since 2000 29%, then the next 23, 24 etc. In 2009, when the crisis was at its peak, interest reached an incredible amount in this 36% sphere. We tried to ask Governor Jelasic in a reasoned way why he does not stand in the way of that kind of impudence, financial impudence, because we see a little or little in our public you have statements by Mrs Draginja Đuric, who says - we do not think of reducing interest, we have statements from the secretary of the Association of Banks, Mr Dugalic, who also says - we do not think of a reduction in interest. So there are still opportunities, which is not to say, as happened in BiH, there are penalties, especially when it comes to retroactively raising the margin, which is scandalous, meaning the signed contract from both the economic and legal points of view is being raised, and that is because of the fact that the monopoly right here has banks from Western Europe, from the EU, Austria first of all, and the fact that our authorities and the NBS do not protect the interests of their citizens. It is also scandalous that it was accepted in the NBS Law that the governor was not required before the National Assembly to report negotiations with the IMF. We asked the governor why it was like that. He responded to the maltene in an unserious way, that the NBS did not participate in negotiations with the IMF. How is it possible, then, that he signed a letter of intent? How is it possible then that one of the three signatories of this letter of intent, which is actually stronger than any decision by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the NBS? We'd like to know where the foreign reserve is, and that's kind of a secret, by law. Here we had the opportunity to read the 2009 NBS annual account signed by Dr. Dejan Šoštic. There's no mention of where the Western banks have our foreign exchange reserves, it doesn't even give us the amount of interest, we just have a range of 0.75% interest to 6.5%, which you're going to admit is a kind of huge difference. As for the banking margins, they are between 7% and 25% in Serbia and are the most in Europe, which is scandalous and what the governor has to fight, and must protect the vast majority of citizens who use these loans. It is quite unclear to justify such large interest in the Republic of Serbia in an unserious way as Governor Jelasic did, saying inflation in our country is great. I'll give you another example that shows that's not true. The link between interest and inflation exists in Ukraine, and Ukraine is a recordr in Europe at the level of inflation, yet interest is much less. In that sense, there's a big job coming. The governor will have to show some kind of professional courage, which he didn't have, unfortunately, his predecessor, above all in front of the Western banks and their branches here. That's where I think, first of all, the Bank of Intects, which is more than impertinently and monopolyally acting on this market, and it's the biggest bank here. Also, we believe that the governor should protect state and ownership stakes in Serbian banks, because the previous period has shown that there is a need for a kind of bank to have developmental intentions, not just profitous, as Western banks here do. In that sense, I don't think the model can be the European Central Bank again. It is Jean-Claude Trishe, who is the governor of the European Central Bank, who is an example of a political compromise between those countries that have decided in fact in the European Union and the European Central Bank, because he has been known since 2003 as a man who has been involved in numerous affairs. Therefore, the legislation and work of the National Bank of Serbia should be adapted to real conditions in Serbia, and some negative examples should not be seen.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43167	You've used 13 minutes of Parliament time. The word is Mr Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43168	Mr Vice President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, when I was a kid, I worked at the National Employment Service, and we had a single form in that service that filled out all candidates for a particular job, in which, among other things, there was one section that read – personality characteristics, character. One of the candidates, applying for a job, wrote in that section - nice. Let's not forget, today we are not discussing the election of a new governor because the candidate for governor is smart and handsome, but because the previous governor resigned. We learned this in March, when Mr Jelasic informed the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and, of course, Mr Dinkic of his resignation in a sentence – I resign exclusively for personal reasons and there were no political pressures. Let me remind you that in January, the Prime Minister, Mr Cvetkovic, marked Mr Jelasic as one of the culprits for the dinar course. In recent months before this act, Mr Jelasic, everything indicated that he was suffering certain pressures. Because of the dinar course policy, he was criticised by businessmen. Because of his insistence on spending control, he also came into conflict with Mr Dinkic, and that culminated in a famous forum on the Kopalnik. Due to continued freezing of salaries and pensions, he came into conflict with the PUPS in February 2009. There was pressure from Mr. Gilas, of Finance Minister Diana Dragutinovic, even from the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. In his response to Mr. Bulgarin, Mr. Jelasic said that Bulgaria's man is in the service of the tycoon, and that Diana Dragutinovic should know that it is in the interest of the National Bank of Serbia to maintain price stability. In his reply, the President of the Chamber of Commerce, Mr. Bulgarian, answers to the tycoon's strategic goals through private ties in the executive government. As far as I know, the National Assembly and the Constitutional Court are not executive authorities, but rather the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In April, Minister Dinkic says -- the governor will first have to explain his programme when it comes to monetary policy. This year, on April 12th, we learn from the media that the leaders of the ruling coalition have agreed that Mr. Šoštic should sit in the chair he has sat in so far. Apparently, he put out a programme for them to run this country's monetary policy. After that, we were only able to get to know each other from newspaper articles on some programme and some ideas represented by the candidate for Governor Mr. Šoštic, so he said that money from the financial system should be directed towards investments in infrastructure and exports. I totally agree with that. The course is best stabilised by exporting and rising competitiveness of the domestic economy. That's right. There is room for careful further relaxation of monetary policy. And that's possible. The sale of public enterprises should not be in the function of supporting the exchange rate. I agree with that, too. The existence of deficits is a clear signal that the state spends more than it manages to raise funds for its consumption. Greater consumption of the country stimulates inflation and reduces investment resources for economic development. It's absolutely right. However, everyone here today pointed out, and even in previous days in the media, that better co-operation was needed by the governors with executive authority. Does Governor Soskic know who he will work with in the future? When she was last in the House of Finance Ministers Ms. Diana Dragutinovic, she explained in this room the loans the Republic of Serbia took on and then I told her – whoever lives on credit, dies on the wars and that it is the obligation of the state to repay its debts, that the costs be converted to future generations. Yesterday we had the opportunity to be informed by the finance minister that Serbia is in charge of another 220m euros. Once, Mrs Dragutinovic said that during the crisis, the private sector reduced debts and that the state was in additional debt. Since yesterday, we've heard that the private sector has now begun to be in debt and that the state has begun to deprive itself. I don't understand that logic, as 220m euros came to ratification yesterday. Since Mr. Šoškić today is a synonym for independence and independence in this country, I would like to hear from him what is the external debt of our country and when will the collective duty reach a critical limit? For the last time, Mrs Dragutinovic said that the state debt is 10 billion euros, the external debt of 22 billion euros – then we told you in the debate that he would be increased very quickly by two and a half billion and that is exactly what happened – that we are a low-indebted country with about 30% of GDP. Mrs Dragutinovic said the border is between 40% and 45%. Councilman of the Prime Minister, colleague of Mr Shoskovic, Prof. Bajec says Serbia must be in good debt, and then I wonder if it has eased its attention in the government of the Republic of Serbia. Serbia's external debt is 24 billion, which is about 32% of GDP, and if debt is added by arrangement with the IMF, it is 37% of GDP. I remind you that Governor Jelasic made it clear that this arrangement with the IMF is entering our country's external debt. Also, fellow adviser Mr. Bajec said that in 2009, external debt was 35.5% of GDP, that it would reach 39% in 2010, and that in 2015 it would be reduced to 36%. So in five years, he'll be bigger than he was last year. What is a fact is that the average net salary in Serbia is 33,500 dinars and nominally and realistically smaller than in April, that our salaries are among the lowest in the region, and what is the biggest problem, the number of those receiving them has dropped. Out of the total number of companies, only 18% are paying their profits neatly. The biggest profit was made at the state firm and the lowest in private property. Then we come up with an absurd situation that individual employees of private companies require the state to take care of them. According to statistics, social property employment dropped 40%. It's a completely schizophrenic situation, and I don't have an answer to it, we haven't heard it from Mr. Shoskovic or the finance minister. In just three last months, we've had a growth of bad credits and liquidity by 11%, and every third enterprise in Serbia is inequitable. Evidence that the crisis behind us will be the growth of employment, wage growth, the growth of standards and the purchasing power of citizens, and this cannot be achieved by greater employment in the state administration or public enterprises, but rather by the private sector. In the famous letter of intent referred to by the IMF, our government found that economic growth was insufficient and unequal to revive the labour market. I remind you that the unemployment rate in this country is 19.2%. The recovery of our economy won't be as fast as we didn't know it, but they were still hoping. That the government is aware of the risk of the negative impact of the Greek debt crisis on this, we talked about it here, and Governor Jelasic spoke of it, and then resigned because he was not pressured. After all, Prime Minister Mr Cvetkovic, otherwise former finance minister, concluded that we had entered a post-crisis period and announced the abolition of anti-crisis measures by the end of the year and the creation of new jobs. I'd like to know if that advice was given by his senior adviser, Mr. Shoskovic, to make such a statement. Instead of this government cutting costs, it actually cuts wages. We heard from the finance minister, Mrs Dragutinovic, that salaries and pensions were frozen, and from the second minister in the government, Mr Dinkic, we heard that they would be increased already in October. I can imagine that Mr. Cvetkovic's favorite series is "Happy People", that Mrs. Dragutinović's favorite series "The Dollars Are Coming", and Mladjan Dinkic's favorite series is "The Better Life". I am forced to watch Public Service or "Dnevnik" to find out from it who is right and what the country's policy will be, whether what the finance minister or the economy minister says. What is a fact, Mr. Shoskovic will not be easy in the coming period. Unlike Governor Jelasic, when elected in 2004, Serbia has a smaller inflow of foreign investments, there is a downside in the state register, there is a deficit in foreign trade and there is a problem in serviceing its debts. We voted for the previous governor in 2004. Today we had no chance to hear his programme, we only heard his biography and no one today convinced us that the NBS would be independent and independent, so do not expect DSS MPs to support Governor Šoškovic, not even from Bodrum, as it used to be done in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43169	Nine minutes and 30 seconds of MP time were used. I will now say to give Mr. Dragan Stevanovic, as Mr. Antic and Mr. Arsic are not here right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43170	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems to me that this atmosphere in which we are being debated and followed by the choice of the first NBS man in our country is actually saying what we can expect from all of this. First we spent a few days in a debate on the NBS Act, which had to create preconditions for our great president, Boris Tadic, to propose a new governor, and then that great president didn't even allow us to come to defend his proposal, to send someone to do so in his name, and when you look back at the parliamentary benches, only a few of his party members are sitting and listening to this debate, if he listens to it at all, and if they are interested in it at all. Then someone in Serbia today who has the opportunity to follow this debate should get the impression that the new governor in terms of functioning and the banking sector, in general, in the monetary policy of this state, the financial policy of this state, will give some changes, we can expect certain effects. I repeat, the atmosphere in which we do all this suggests that at best everything we have with the former governor, with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, with all those responsible for our lives awaits us. Mr. Novakovic, that's why I'm forced to talk to you, I hope you don't mind, because, I repeat, there is no one in front of you, unfortunately. At the beginning of the debate, several introductory words were said by Mrs Ljiljak, who seems to me to be the vice-president of the Finance Committee, and only a few weeks ago we heard that the NSRS Finance Committee should not propose a candidate, that it is not his function or to the most large extent is not work and obligation, so they convinced us that the president should do so, but I repeat, President Boris Tadic is neither there nor sent anyone. This career and biography, I don't want to be incorrect so I can say it's not impressive, but the question is, is it enough for all that the NBS and the governor are supposed to offer to the state? We do not want to dispute Mr. Šoškovic's professional credibility, but there are some things that I will talk about that really raises doubts about whether Serbia has yet benefited from Mr. Šoskovic's professional credibility and whether Serbia will have after his election as governor of the NBS. Here's why. Since his professional, if he has it, and it says he has it, the quality was important, he in no way affected the work and functioning or at least influenced the work and functioning of the NBS. The problems encountered in the sphere and in the area have surfaced because other segments of the held administration have interfered, or the RS government has not been prepared to ensure the independence of the NBS. That's why his credibility has been seriously questioned. If you look at what it says here, you will see that in 2000, it means from October 5th and so on, there is almost no period in which Mr. Šoštic was not present in public and various forums, which is professional, which is banking, which is governmental. The question arises whether Mr. Šoškić, all those years or almost a decade in fact, or indirectly supported politics, which is the one led by the NBS, which is the policy led by the government. A simple question – what benefit did Serbia and the banking sector, i.e. public finances, have from the fact that Mr. Soskic, with all his qualities, was present in public, or political life in the Republic of Serbia? It also writes here – a special adviser for financial markets in the NBJ from 2000 to 2002, a consultant for economic policy at the Council for Economic and Legal Affairs of the EU, again the same period, from 2002 to 2003, member of the NBS Council from 2003 to 2004, member of the Economic Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia 2009 and President of the NBS Council. It was all Mr. Šoštic, and we feel very good about our skin what our economic situation is, what the state of public finances is, what our monetary policy is, what our policy of course is, what our course regime is, etc. This is something that seriously raises such professional quality – is Mr. Šoškić credible enough to resist the pressures of Germany 11? Certainly not, gentlemen of the Parliament, because if he did, he wouldn't be a candidate. And that's our problem. There are papers and documents that are not SRS' position, but which in this context seriously disqualify it. Now look at this, I repeat again, here we are breaking up by discussing personal, financial and any other independence of the NBS. We took it from the board's jurisdiction, I repeat, the candidate's proposal to entrust it to the great president, and then, right after Governor Jelasic's resignation, imagine no less or less, the prime minister appears. Be careful what he says, a source of RTS: "The Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic proposed yesterday the president of the NBS Council, Dejan Šoškovic, as the new governor of the central bank. Soskic is a professional, is not a member of any political party and is therefore a candidate," the prime minister said. What kind of personal independence are we talking about here today? Afterwards, the prime minister suggested that the assembly majority or on behalf of the assembly majority, the prime minister, the assembly majority accepted Dejan Soskic, or that he was acceptable to him. It was eventually proposed by the President of the Republic of Serbia. We are talking about independence today, Dejan Šoškovic's election should give us a guarantee that the NBS will allegedly resist pressures from the government in the coming period. I asked, if you remember, this is Mr. Radovan Jelasic – what does it mean, Mr. Jelasic, your statement that you listened to politicians wouldn't stay this long? Mr. Jelasic did not want to answer that question. Even in public, you couldn't hear the direct answer to such a thing that the pressures even existed. Why almost half the resignation term? And the fact is that the government will be pressurised, it is fully agreed and Mr. Soskic. Mr. Šoškić, as a candidate, is paying attention to what kind of statement he makes – I believe I will be able to defend myself against influence, otherwise I would not accept these functions. He is also unelected governor of the National Bank of Serbia knows what awaits him, but he is obviously a man with a higher tolerance threshold, much more flexible than Mr Jelasic, so he is willing to "suffer" to co-operate with the government of the Republic of Serbia. If I were wrong, it wouldn't have been 10 years of his direct and indirect participation in the creation of this country's economic policy. Now we need to realize that after Mr. Jelasic, something else will come. We need to understand that the government will change its relationship with the People's Bank, a government that has no agreement within it, a government that cannot agree on a policy of tax reform in the next period, essential reforms that need to be defined economically and every other life in this country for the next five or 10 years. So last night, in the debate on amendments and additions to the Tax System and the Tax Procedure, you could hear dissonant tones. Representatives of a ruling majority political party are using this to attack the finance minister over the structure of taxes in Serbia. Some say -- it's not good, the minister defends herself and says she disagrees, and both for 10 years lead both fiscal policy and tax policy of this country. What's left, I repeat the question from last night for us from the opposition? What kind of questions should we ask? Then some things get back together and that's how it all works out. You're reading a report from the National Bank of Serbia for the previous year. You're reading the report of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You can't find a single critical word and a critical reference to the work of those organs. We're wondering in the SRS who's to blame for these problems we have here today? There are no challenges that the government and the NBS have not responded to. We know they owed loans indexed in euro, when the euro was 80, and today we pay them back when the euro is 104 at least. We also know that exchange rates and deposits in Serbia ranged from three to 18%. The government and the Bank convince us of the stability of the banking sector. Well, only a lunatic who owns a bank here can't be stable and can't do business with profits in Serbia when conditions are paid or deposits are what they are. Where was the role of the NBS to be interested? NBS officials boast that the stability of the banking sector has been ensured, among other things, that big business has been done in the trade of state records of securities of value. It's something both the Bank and the Government should be ashamed of. Why did they provide, or offer, records to that extent, and securities of value? Because these funds provided and covered the budget deficit with dinar funds, and the budget deficit because you have public spending that Serbian production cannot handle. Instead of being ashamed and hiding it, that's what we do for pride. Of course, banks traded securities because it was worth it, and they didn't sell their loans, which is basic function and business. Why didn't they sell loans? Because in Serbia, citizens are creditworthy. They can't pull the loans anymore. There's something called a credit bureau, so in the government circles, they're still thinking about improving the credit bureau in Serbia, so that our debt to municipal services, for the phone, for the electricity, for one, for the other, for the third, and that it's burdening us all in the context of credit borrowing. It is a picture of Serbia in which we live today, a picture of Serbia drawn or created by people who suggest Dejan Soskovic, people who are 10 years associates of Dejan Soskovic, and Dejan Soskić didn't mind all that, with all due respect for his professional qualities, if he has them, and it says he has them. As for us, to absorb the story of the personal professional qualities of Dejan Šoškovic, Dejan Šoškić will not bring anything new into politics. He boasts that the swimming course regime will be maintained. It's not something they came up with. The People's Bank gentlemen are forced to do that. They are forced no longer to support the import lobby, so the euro course is not synthetically fixed, but was forced to let it go, to become swimming. He's swimming today, the way he is. It's only being maintained thanks to NBS interventions, but it can't be done forever, because in this context you're limited, because your foreign reserves are limited, and to the greatest extent, it depends on how many foreign banks that have their own exposures deposited money here with the NBS. You could have done this by now because foreign banks didn't withdraw money because of the Vienna Agreement, but if in the next period their money lies dead in vaults and banks here, they'll withdraw that money, we'll have foreign reserves melting. There won't be room for a course-preserving intervention, and then we'll get back into one grey and one economic nothingness, which you all know well what it means when the course starts to wild, God forbid. Therefore, all these stories of yours, praises for the new governors who could be heard in public, NBS, course policies, etc., because of the atmosphere as it is, which I was talking about at the beginning, really fall into the water. Serbia will not be able to expect any of these personal changes to the NBS, because there is no political will in Serbia for economic, political and all other relations to change, to put on healthy legs so that we can all expect a better and happier future. With you, your political profiles, it will remain as it has been.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43171	15 minutes and 25 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word is Mr Milos Radulovic. The time at your disposal is four and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43172	Today, we have on the agenda a proposal to resolve the governor and elect a new governor, without knowing the reasons why the governor, formerly, but Radovan Jelasic, resigned. He said he did it for personal reasons. But first of all, the opinion of the public, and also of us here, is that he did it because, esteeming the government's policy and at all what this government is doing, he said that because of too much debt, we have a Greek scenario ahead of us. Many in the government have seen this as a harsh and irresponsible statement. I would like to compare that with the epitaph standing on Branko Miljkovic's grave, a famous poet - he was killed by an too many words. That's why we're obviously choosing a new governor today. What's sad is the number of people in the Assembly when we speak to the governor, and we know that the governor is the most significant function in the state, because he's the guardian of the cash register. Today, we choose a governor based on the proposal of these two papers. On one note is a biography of future Governor Dejan Šoškovic, and on another paper is a proposal from Hope Kolundzhija, a national MP, to include the point in the agenda. In doing so, we choose the governor without submitting a proposal for the future governor's programme, Mr. Dejan Šoškovic. The Democratic Party of Serbia tried to improve its amendments to the Bill on the National Bank of Serbia, however, there was no hearing that these DSS amendments would be accepted. That's why we choose the governor this way, where the explanation of a president from the ruling majority was -- let's choose him because he's a nice and good boy. The main goal of the National Bank of Serbia is to achieve price stability, and in addition, the goal is to preserve financial stability. So far, it has been pointed out on several occasions that the biggest merit of this government and the National Bank of Serbia is precisely price stability. I'm going to give you a picture of what this, respected citizens of Serbia, price stability is. Projected inflation is 6.2%. We already have 5.2% this year. In doing so, what all Serbian citizens are worried about, and in due time I will have to read quickly, it is that those prices that the government controls have increased: the electricity kilowatt has accumulated 11.6%, heating, respected citizens of Serbia, up to 61%, the telephone impulse 56.6%, the city's 58.7%, the communals only increased by 15% from January to today. Do you know why, Serbian citizens, inflation is what it is? Just because Serbian citizens are unable to buy goods of broad consumption, they do not have enough money, which is why prices are falling because the offer is much higher, the demand is much lower. The government and the ruling majority are doing everything possible to make life difficult for those citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43173	The word is, in this order, Mrs. Lidija Dimitrijevic, so Mr. Milorad Buha and finally Mr. Vladan Jeremic. Mrs Tabakovic, I apologize, if I understand correctly, Mr Antic and Arsic will not be there. Mrs Dimitrijevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43174	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, in the middle of the economic crisis in March 2010, the National Bank of Serbia was left without a governor by resigning from what is said to be personal reasons. Although we are in the midst of an economic crisis, many of our officials are denying it, they say we are coming out of the crisis, however, reality is denying them. The National Assembly recently adopted amendments to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, we talked a lot about it, we held a debate with the former governor, as part of the agenda is the proposal to elect the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. The MPs received a biography of candidates, however, in writing, the programme of work of the future governor was not delivered. We think it was necessary after all. The new governor is elected to the six-year term and it was certainly necessary to present the intentions on how monetary policy will be implemented in Serbia. A few days after the resignation of the previous governor, from the then-president of the National Bank Council, and now also from the candidate for Governor-in-Office of Professor Soskovic, we had the opportunity to hear that there should be no more significant change in monetary policy, that the National Bank of Serbia has precisely defined legal jurisdiction and internal regulations and that there should be no need to expect any instability in its work. We in the SRS want to believe that this will indeed be the case, however, we are of the opinion that one short work plan should have been honored by the National Assembly, which, on the proposal of the President of the Republic, elects the first man of the National Bank. I'll make a comparison now. You know, if in some unit of local self-government you still have more serious authority, in order for someone to be appointed head of an administration, he has to make a plan of work, to define what he plans to do during his term of office. The importance of an institution like the National Bank of Serbia really does not need to speak specifically. Much has been said, following Mr Jelasic's decision to resign, about certain pressures and disagreements with the government of the Republic of Serbia, which he was a partner in creating a common economic policy. Some of these considerations in the implementation of economic policy are witnessed by former governors - that the drop in dinars is the result of government spending beyond the state's ability, that the rate of dinar must be influenced by the fact that you are setting budget deficits from 4 to 4.5% of GDP and you spend up to 100, ten billion more than you earn, that everyone had to know that when you adopt the budget and that they can't say that the governor is guilty because they won't spend the reserves. This is enough to say that there have been disagreements between the implementation of monetary and overall economic policy, despite the fact that foreign exchange reserves have been spent to a good extent. The latest data suggests that 1,496.000,000 euros were sold in the interbank foreign exchange market in order to defend the dinar course this year. In June, 238.1m euros were reduced and at the end of that month were 10,492,800,000 euros, while the net foreign reserves were 5,682,000,000. In June, otherwise, the euro-based dinar was nominally depressed by 1.6%, the decline continued in July, so today's average rate is 104.89 dinars per euro. What's important for the SRS Parliament Club, and we haven't had a chance to get to know each other, is what the future governor's intentions are on this matter. Since he had previously expressed disagreement with certain pressures to sell even more foreign reserves than I mentioned, we are interested in how the new governor will treat this issue. Will decisions be made similar to those made before or will they be corrected in relation to certain requirements of the Government's representative, who, on the other hand, have the demands of individual influential people who demand that their interests be put first? Some other things are important to the representatives of the SRS. One of them, for example, is the position of a future governor on the establishment of a development bank. The development banks, as a rule, do not collect deposits or businesses and give favourable loans to projects that contribute to economic growth, export growth and the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. The Serbian government has ordered a study of the justification for the establishment of a development bank. This study was commissioned by the German development bank KFV, and in addition to the results of the study on whether the bank will be established and if it could be established, it depends on whether the state will be able to provide initial capital. It's also important, if this bank is established, whether it's going to be a brand-new bank or if some existing bank, in which the state is a shareholder, is going to be transformed into a development bank. Another important item we're interested in is the opinion of the new governor on salaries at the NBS. We all remember the violent reactions of the previous governor to the freeze of pay. For him, it was falsifying and pulsing. We had the impression that he saw the NBS as an institution under a glass bell, which should not share the fate of the entire economy in Serbia and because of that impression, it is important to us how the future governor sees it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43175	Seven minutes and 10 seconds have been used by the MPs' group. The word is Mr. Buha. The remaining time is thirty-five and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43176	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished citizens of Serbia, three months ago you received information from the governor of the National Bank of Serbia to resign for personal reasons. In light of this resignation, he said there was no political pressure. But the next day and the next, we were witnesses through the media, when he made statements the governor said there were a lot of political pressures, and he even went to determine all those politicians who were pushing. Now I don't have time to elaborate on who took part in political pressures, but it is important to stress that political pressure was involved. If there was political pressure, then there is no statement from the governor that he is resigning for personal reasons. Some other reasons are at stake. So the governor wasn't honest when he resigned. Political and other pressures on the governor, the National Bank Council, the Monetary Committee and all other institutions of the National Bank were particularly important. It was his place here today to give an explanation of the 'personal reasons' and the political pressures that were present in these six years of his desk at the place of governor of the National Bank. Furthermore, it is common in practice in the modern world, including with us, to prepare an adequate programme for such a responsible function. If this is common, that the president of the local community council submits a specific programme to work on the council of the local community, the president of the pigeons' association to submit a programme, before it was the obligation of the governor to come, to be chosen by the majority, to form a programme, to be heard here and to evaluate it as such and to evaluate it in the light of all that he proposes. Unfortunately, we don't have a programme today either, we don't have a governor, with very poor practice that we in this National Assembly so far, as far as I know I've been in this Parliament for five or six years, haven't considered a single report on the work of the National Bank of Serbia. This clearly indicates that the National Bank lives as a special plant, watered by individual politicians and benefiting from it. What's important in this area? The important thing is that after 2000, and especially after four major banks were shut down, we lost a lot. We lost the flower of banking, we lost real banking experts, who, along with those four big banks, and the shutting down of other banks, disappeared from working in the banking sector. How did they disappear? There's new banks where they're usually, we're witnesses every day, when we go to the bank then we see who works there, workers up to 30 years old, inexperienced, young, but well educated for that segment of work they're doing. The old quality personnel, who were the bearers of the banking system, are no longer in banks. This is the new banking system that we received after 2002, following the bankruptcy of almost all the state banks that were operating in the banking system of the Republic of Serbia. Today we have 34 banks that operate and work, and it's interesting to say a little bit about the results of their work. Twenty banks did business with profits and 14 banks with losses. The gain of these banks was 30 billion dinars, and the loss of these 14 banks is about 13 billion dinars. When we talk about business results, we need to create a parallel with the position of economy and the position of citizens. When we talk about the situation of the economy, especially the SRS has for years pointed to huge problems in business business and huge problems in business with banks. Why does it matter? There's no real economy without good banks. What did we do? We've made healthy banks, very profitable banks, big-earned banks, big-earned banks, and we've got an economy that's choking. We've got a huge number of blocked companies, we've got a huge number of companies that we've driven into bankruptcy. So we have healthy banks and sick kids. That's the result of government work, and so is the National Bank. When we follow the development of the banking system, here I will point to the basic characteristics of the development of this banking after 2002. And then we see the active banks growing between 25 and 40 percent, so the capital grew, almost so did the profits of the banking system, and the children who are supposed to enjoy the benefits of the banking system are convulsing in problems, both the citizens and the economy. Let's see what's going on with the bank's activity. In 2006 1.169 billion dinars, 2007 1.564 billion dinars, 2008 in 1,777, 2009 in 2,160 and here in the third month of 2010, 2.237 billion dinars are the assets of the banking system. Now, if we had such indicators in the economy, it would be good to do a parallel and see how much the economic system of the Republic of Serbia is going down, and the benefits are coming out of the banks. In capital, it's a similar situation. In 2006, the banking sector's capital was 216 billion dinars, and in 2010 it was 470 billion dinars. I said something about the bank's profits, here only in 2006 the bank's profits were 200m euros, in 2009, also 200m euros, because of these problems that banks had to collect, etc., because part of that gain was hidden and transferred to certain other flows. What's more important to emphasize in the banking system? A huge amount of interest and margins charged in banking business. Serbia is in line with countries with the highest interest. They say economic and banking experts that Moldova is the first, we are the second largest interest. This impoverished population, this impoverished economy pays such high interest, it's highly unacceptable. What makes the National Bank and the Government change this relationship, that this fact changes and that the interest rates paid by citizens and the economy out to at least 50% of what is in Western Europe. We know how much interest there is. I'll tell you one thing, it's not the first time I've said it here, but it has to serve as a fact that neither the government, nor the National Bank do anything to make these established facts, these negative phenomena about margins and interest rates change, adapt and correct them. At the end of last year, the prime minister of this country participated in a forum on the global economic crisis in the UN and there he used this sentence that I am now going to say – the margins that foreign banks, or individual banks with foreign shareholders charge in the Republic of Serbia, are six to seven times higher than in the countries of origin. He used that sentence in the UN, but he didn't use it here in this House. He didn't use this government's active policy. If that's really a problem, and he is, then it's the prime minister's task, the government's president's task, the finance minister's task, and the NBS's task is to do everything they can to bring you down to at least twice as much as it is in the home countries, not six to seven times. The banks have concluded contracts and taken over the foreign currency from our citizens of 6.5 billion euros. What are interest rates, passive interest rates called in the banking system that citizens get from banks? Somewhere around 6%, some more banks, but it's about 6%. Since banks sell foreign exchanges to businesses, citizens and third parties? At least twice as much as that, even three times. It's easy to do business and it's easy to get a profit. It's a similar situation, we see it every day, in the sale of foreign currency that banks buy on the foreign exchange market organised by NBS. When you look at the course lists, then you'll see that it's some middle course by which the NBS should sell foreign exchanges. We don't know that. We don't know at what rate the NBS is selling foreign exchanges to those who buy. Who's buying? They buy banks and buy importers. That's our guess, but that information is a secret. It can't be a secret. It is about state resources and every citizen of Serbia and every citizen of this world would have to know who buys those foreign exchanges. You hid it. You deliberately hid it. It's a catastrophic mistake of this government, but you know what it was made of. Because of the tycoon and all those involved in that deal. So, when the bank buys that exchange, here's today a course of about 105 for the euro, close to 105, that's a middle course, that every citizen today can check on the exchange rate lists of banks, banks and foreign exchanges for 107.5 to 108, and even over 108 dinars. It's easy to be smart again. So the banks have a bunch of dinars, they buy foreign exchanges, and they sell these foreign exchanges with a difference of about three dinars. Now take the bank one today to buy 10 million euros, so times three, that's 30 million. Buy 100 million, that's 300 million, etc. Here's how the banks get rich. Here's how shareholders have serious dividends. Because of the weather, very short. The governor must appear here as soon as possible to bring in the programme, to clearly state what the perspective of the banking system, which are the tasks of the governors in the performing period, how to overcome all this that plagues predominantly in the area of economy, particularly in the area of financing, in the area of development, etc. Without it, we will have this situation again: huge deficits, huge losses and all the acute problems that plague both citizens and businesses.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43177	It's been used for fourteen and a half minutes. There are 21 minutes left for Mr. Vladan Jeremic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43178	On March 23rd, at a regular press conference for journalists, Governor Radovan Jelasic announced that he had resigned from his post, that he had requested a break-up of work relations with the NBS for personal reasons, not because of political pressures, whatever he thought of the governor and the NBS policy, what is evident is that the moment for such a thing was least desirable, because we must bear in mind the fact that the state register is quite empty, that the exchange rate is insecure, indifference of ever more present and widespread, and the famous agreements with the IMF are almost under continuous review. In doing so, what is particularly interesting, Mr Jelasic did not speak out at the time with Serbian Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic whether this has something to do with occasional differences in views of co-operation between the government and the central bank. He'll probably show us the time he's in front of us. I'd like to start by touching those theories a little bit that probably every resignation has a direct cause, even when there are longer and more serious causes for it. When it comes to the recent governor of the NBS, approximately chronologically, some three reasons or three information could be connected. I remind the public that first of all, five financial regulations were adopted in the National Assembly that partially alter the proposition to meet the current budget deficit, which should not mean that it can be filled in by printing money. Of course, that would be unconstitutional. Then we had a statement from the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Dinkic, that the government would approve the subsidized consumer loans in dinars, with a grace period of one year, a three-year repayment deadline and a currency-free war, and that the volume of these loans would be 30 billion dinars. I guess that's the deal with the business banks. Finally, and perhaps at the very beginning, even the public was informed that pensions would be shared on Thursday and Friday, which should mean that the fall in budget revenues we are facing, which at the beginning of this year was 18.5%, was somehow bridged. However, at this point it is completely unclear whether it is possible for these three events to be connected or because of something else, so, between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the NBS, I also remind you of some correspondence, but it could be concluded by one of Prime Minister Mirka Cvetkovic's replies in an interview published by Belgrade's "Politika" on March 21st, I will paraphrase what Mirko Cvetkovic said there – I really cannot understand the remarks that monetary authority is referring to the government. Any type of criticism is spent a lot on me is completely groundless because public spending is within the framework of the planned budget. That's why I can't understand the criticism of fiscal policy. The prime minister then noted that since the new year he has been in contact with the governor and that he is talking to him about the measures imposed by monetary authority, and that the removal of the mandatory reserve has been specified with the government. To the direct question whether the Greek scenario threatens Serbia, the prime minister responded absolutely resolutely, as our public debt exclusively refers to borrowing for infrastructure projects and that part of the public debt is shifted to budget reserves, i.e. It's not spent. Even these seemingly measured prime minister's words can act as a considerable criticism of the work of the governor of the NBS, and I will remind only of what the prime minister also said that the NBS is transferring its own responsibility to the finance ministry in the context of the dinar's decline in value towards the euro. So it is possible, if a little deeper analysis is made, that Radovan Jelasic estimated that such a model of economic policy is being prepared and that he will not accept responsibility for it, or that he may have estimated that this model is not acceptable, above all for the IMF, whose reaction to his resignation may also be very important in the context of the whole story that is being led around the credit arrangement with this international financial institution. If this is in mind, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, and when the candidate for new Governor Dejan Šoškić announced that there will be no change in the conduct of the current NBS policy if he is elected to this significant function, on the one hand, it can be understandable, if he is practically in this new function he should come from the position of President of the NBS Council, so that he is practically co-responsible for the results of this extremely significant institution so far. On the other hand, if the future governor really thinks that he is continuing with the policy he has led over the past period, this means that as citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we cannot hope for any fundamental change, because all of the governors so far have pointed out as one of the most important achievements of the NBS is that he is provided so-called. a stable course of dinars and so on. a healthy banking system. It is almost clear to all that these alleged NBS results also have some consequences for the Serbian economy and its citizens. I would use this time, or participation in today's debate, to try to point out one of the biggest problems that is still quite wrapped up in the veil of secrets, and from the domain is the work of the NBS, or the future governor, and as far as this policy is concerned, the policies of the NBS foreign reserve, where apparently on the lack of funds, their allocation, the decision makes practically one man. During the previous months, even years, we could have informed ourselves that NBS foreign reserves have reached a record high level, and as is known, foreign reserves are not held in the NBS Treasury, but are placed in the national bonds of others, as a rule, rich states and thus cover the deficits of their state budgets or are held in the form of deposits in the banks of the most developed countries. The exchange reserves of economically less developed countries, whose category includes Serbia, are obviously only used for the placement of the richest countries, because they are there, of course, the most powerful, most professional banks and government bonds. Interestingly, compared to this phenomenon, we also have the fact that Serbia's external debt is constantly growing and that it also reaches a record high level, and that Serbia is obviously a country where there is a lot of illogicality. Credits are taken from other countries, international financial institutions, large Western banks, at relatively high interest rates. Serbia also pays high interest on the vault records it broadcasts to raise funds to cover the state budget deficit. Official data on where and under which conditions the NBS foreign reserves are placed are not available to the general public, but it is known that the interest rates on these funds are symbolic, from 1% to 3%, so our country cannot count on some significant contribution from the foreign reserve. In any case, it is multiplely less than the contributions made by countries or financial institutions where Serbia is in debt, covering the deficit of the state budget. Accumulating large amounts of foreign reserves, placing them in government bonds or deposits of rich banks or, better said, Western countries, and at the same time borrowing among those where foreign reserves are placed, it is absolutely in the SRS for both the economy and society in general, as it is in the state of Serbia. In doing so, a special consequence can be a cause for the country where politics is conducted, so-called policy. a stable course of domestic money, as is the case in Serbia. All of this raises one logical question – where then there is some justification or economic logic that we finance, at a symbolic interest rate, budget deficits of rich countries, while at the same time these same countries, directly or through various financial institutions, grant us loans, at high interest rates, to which we finance the deficit of the Serbian budget. On the other hand, the real question is perhaps – where is the logic of placing foreign exchange reserves in deposits of Western banks, with a symbolic interest, and those buying with that same money the vault records of our Ministry of Finance or NBS records, which carry a high, usually double-digit interest rate, or approve loans to Serbian citizens at interest rates? On a short-term loan to the population at the end of 2009 they amounted to as much as 36%, making huge profits using our financial resources. If we already have such high foreign exchange reserves, we think that it would be much more rational to use one part of them to repay foreign loans, at least those that the state took under the most unfavourable conditions, and that, in part of the previous calendar year, it would reduce the huge external debt, or at least pay off all those liabilities in due time, which, according to data from the end of the previous calendar year, amounted to $2.87 billion, of which one quarter of the waste is on regular and tight interest. In this way, at least those tight interest payments are avoided. Fellow Members and colleagues, we really believe that instead of taking expensive foreign loans, which cover the deficit of the budget, part of the current high foreign reserves of the NBS could be used, instead of placing them at a symbolic interest, in the bonds of the Western countries, covering their budget deficits. From all this to date, there is no economic rationality and sound logic in the fact that Serbia, which is already over-indebted and under increasingly unfavourable or better expensive conditions, is in debt abroad, while at the same time increasing its foreign exchange reserves that I repeat, are being placed in banks of rich countries, with a symbolic fee. Foreign exchange reserves are an inefficient way of investing surplus capital, extremely inefficient for both countries and citizens at their disposal, but an extremely lucrative job of financial intermediaries from countries I have already talked about. Obviously, that's a great reason why it's done that way. All our attempts during the previous months in terms of criticism of such a non-rational foreign reserve policy have been caused by certain reactions, especially that of the government, or economists, who believe that the state should be in a position to be in a state of foreign debt and at the same time to increase foreign reserves, and that a reasonable response should have been to reduce the country's large external debt and at the same time to reduce excessive foreign reserves. When it is known that the external trade deficit in Serbia was less than two billion dollars a year by 2000, and directly before this current global economic crisis was billions of dollars a month, and industrial production was 5.37% less than in 1998, the year when the economy had been operating for six years under international economic sanctions, it is clear why we are quite critical of the sphere of monetary policymaking. Especially when it comes to what I said at the very beginning of the presentation, which is a statement by candidate for the new governor, Dejan Šoškovic, that there will be no change in the management of the current NBS policy. So there's a lot of questions, and we'll see if there's gonna be an answer. As a congregation majority, you will certainly vote for what you have reached agreement, but what we should certainly get answers to the question, which is – what is happening, why the dinar has begun to lose sight of, what is the cause of such a course movement, whether the course has been affected by the offer and demand on the financial market, how will the NBS refer to businessmen who insist that the dinar is stabilised and is that even possible, and what would happen in that case if the state met them? So there are a lot of questions, and if there's going to be an answer, we'll see when you pick a new governor of the NBS.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43179	Thank you, Mr. Jeremiah. You were the last to be reported on the list of parliamentary groups. If no one else answers for a word, who hasn't used his right to Article 93. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint Single Search on the Proposal for a decision to suspend the position of Governors of the NBS and a proposal to elect the Governor of the NBS. On the basis of Article 85. Rules of Procedure, I'm setting a break of one hour. We will begin work in 14.55 by reviewing the candidate's proposal to elect a member of the High Council of the judiciary from the law school professors' order. Have a nice lunch and thanks for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43180	We continue work in the afternoon session. Before we move to the 14th item of the agenda, I remind you of a notice given to the National Assembly before the opening of a joint single search of points 12 and 13, which have just been completed in the afternoon, that we will be working after 1800 hours today, and by discussing the point of the agenda which at that time is the subject of our debate. On the basis of Article 85(5), given the way we work, this means that if we finish the debate on the 14th item of the agenda today, we will move to a search in detail on the second item of the agenda – the proposal for a law on trade. We move to the 14th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a MEP OF THE SPECIFIC COUNCIL OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF COURT OF COURT FOR THIS POINT OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT FOR THIS POINT You have received a proposal for a candidate for an election member of the High Council of the Law School Professors, which was established by the Joint Meeting of the Faculty of Law in the Republic of Serbia (number 119-1851/10 of 7 July 2010). You have also received a report from the Committee on Justice and Administration on the examination of this proposal. Before the search opens, I remind you that according to Article 163(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I realize that the time for debates by parliamentary groups is the following: the parliamentary group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 group plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MP group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS-Vojslav Kostunica parliamentary group - 24 minutes; the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Salad group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS parliamentary group - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them on these points of the agenda: MP Aleksandar Martinovic, the SRS parliamentary group. I'm opening an investigation into the proposal for a candidate election member of the High Council of the Judiciary of the Law School Professors. Does the rapporteur of the Justice and Administration Committee, MP Bosko Ristic, want a word? No, he's not there. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43181	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the debate on this agenda item may have about two dimensions. As far as the proposed candidate, Mr Predrag Dimitrijevic, is concerned, it is indisputable that it is a prominent legal expert. It is indisputable that his professional and professional career is impressive and I, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, sincerely hope that the distinguished professor and dean of the Faculty of Law in Nis and the candidate for a member of the High Council of Justice will be able to manage, of course if elected, in the work of this high judicial body in the Republic of Serbia and will give its scientific and professional contribution to the High Council of the Judiciary's work better than it has done so far. About the proposed candidate, I think you can say anything beautiful. What should be said, however, when it comes to this point of the agenda is the state of justice of the Republic of Serbia, given that the reform of the judicial system in our country is largely done according to the model proposed by individual current members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. The reform began at the end of 2008 with the adoption of a set of judicial laws, and it was finally completed with the election of the highest judicial titles in the Republic of Serbia at the end of last year. What can be said about judicial reform in the Republic of Serbia from 2008 to today? It can be said that it is such a reform or change that those who know the procedural right would say is "reformio in peius", that the change is worse than the situation that existed before this reform. Of course, in 20 minutes, it is difficult to point out all the shortcomings in our judicial system, but what is evident, among other things, is the fact that the pressure of the executive authority on the judiciary has increased, and not just ministers, but even certain state secretaries in certain ministries. It has now become a common phenomenon that executives in the Republic of Serbia comment on court rulings that have not even become legal. The most recent case is the pressure on one judge, and I'm going to stick to the Ciceron maximum – the dent odyos nomin, so now I'm not going to mention specific names so that someone doesn't have a problem with this discussion, but I think you all know what it's all about, and it's about the process of some fans with regard to the threats being made to journalist B92. If no verdict is reached, as has not been reached, however, the verdict is not yet legal, and if no verdict is reached as the representatives of the executive government are expected, the media campaign is moving, the media campaign is being conducted by a judge who allegedly had the courage to pass such a verdict, and there is no question at all – and what was the indictment, did the public prosecutor make a mistake in the proceedings? Could he not have carried out or suggested all relevant evidence that the verdict would have been different? There are a lot of such cases in the judicial system of the Republic of Serbia, which basically means that the principle of judicial independence in the Republic of Serbia remains only in the norms of the law, in the textbooks of criminal procedural law or civil procedural law or constitutional law, but in practice this principle has not been implemented in the legal sense of that word. What else can be said about judicial reform in the Republic of Serbia? It can be said that the judges, the prosecutors, that the deputy public prosecutors became minor commercial travelers. Today it is a regular phenomenon that in the streets of Serbian cities you see judges, you see prosecutors, who, with their full hands, with bags full of objects, travel from one place to another. An ugly scene to say someone who judges in some criminal cases, in cases that are not naive at all, where they can impose years of imprisonment, with these cases in their hands, enter the bus and travel to the place where the trial is conducted. It's a practice that, we believe in the SRS, there is absolutely no well-organized and civilized state. However, we drew your attention to this at the end of 2008, when you passed judicial laws. You didn't believe us it would be like that. Here, in 2010, it is now showing how wrong the reform of the judicial system in the Republic of Serbia is, how perceived on the wrong basis. Today, the judge, today the prosecutor, rather than considering the case, is considering how to make a legal decision, must consider how to travel 50, 100 or 200 kilometers to the place where the trial is being conducted. I had a chance to see judges hitchhiking in Serbian roads with their thumb up and begging God for someone to stop them. It was usually a lady, someone to stop them and drive them to the place where the woman lives, as the trial took place some 50 kilometers from where she has her place of residence. Here, it's about the state of the judiciary, it's the state of the prosecution today in the Republic of Serbia following reforms. Not only did the SRS point out that judicial system reforms in the Republic of Serbia are bad, even your partners from the EU pointed out. They told you, the Society of European Judges, that what you intend to do with the Serbian judiciary is not in line with European standards. You claimed to be. You have voted these laws, elected judges and now, seven months since the judges and prosecutors were elected, we can see in practice how Serbia's judicial system works. What should also be said more when it comes to this agenda point is one case that has intrigued the very public of Serbia. It is about an attempt or staged assassination attempt on SNS President Tomislav Nikolic. That is why in the Serbian public, great dust has been raised in Serbian media. You remember those hearty scenes from the press conference of the party, where the leaders of the party claimed that they were allegedly from Boris Tadic, the president of the Republic, received a text message saying that Tomislav Nikolic's life was in danger, and then Mr. Aleksandar Vukic said at a press conference that only he and Tomislav Nikolic knew that all the shahts in Krusevec were closed so that someone wouldn't accidentally shoot Tomislav Nikolic, and that they were deployed around the surrounding buildings, quoting Mr. Vukic, our snipers. Then Tomislav Nikolic got security from Mr. Ivica Dacic, and then he gave up security and eventually accepted him again. What the SRS considers to be the whole case, we expressed our views in criminal charges against the journalist's "Blic" list, which first published that incorrect information that Vojislav Seselj of The Hague tribunal ordered the murder of Tomislav Nikolic. Of course, we have also filed criminal charges against Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandr Vukic because the SRS has come to the indisputable knowledge that Mr. Aleksandar Vukic has agreed with the lawyers Milos Simovic to allegedly deliver a message, we still do not know who, whether someone from Bije or someone from the MUP, that he was supposed to be the perpetrator of the assassination of Tomislav Nikolic. Of course, today it is clear to all citizens in Serbia, firstly, that Vojislav Seselj does not have the physical opportunity to order the killing of anyone in The Hague tribunal, or to kill Tomislav Nikolic; that Mr Vojislav Seselj never ordered anyone's murder or supported anyone's murder. Vojislav Seselj is monitored through cameras in The Hague tribunal 24 hours a day. You can't get to Vojislav Seselj in Sheveningen without passing two checkpoints, where the malts strip you naked. You can't talk to Vojislav Seselj on the phone without the Hague tribunal recording it. You cannot talk to Vojislav Seselj at the Hague tribunal detention unit in Sheveningen without at least two or three armed guards and a detention unit attending him. What, however, sheds a brand-new light on this whole case, as well as on a previous case that has also upset the Serbian public is a new light on the background of the murder of Serbian Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. First, the SRS is using this opportunity to ask both the Minister of Interior and the Director of Bija and the President of the Republic of Serbia: how is it possible that two prominent members of the Zemun clan Sretko Kalinic and Milos Simovic have been hiding in the Croatian capital since 2003, and that the Croatian police, both public and secret, that the Croatian judiciary, the highest Croatian officials do not know about this fact? In other words, the SRS raises the question of what role is Croatia playing in the murder of Zoran Djindjic? Since 2003, it is impossible for the two to hide in Zagreb without anyone living for it, only before Sretko Kalinic was born from the region of Zadar, a team before he participated in war activities in the areas of Republika Srpska. By the way, he was in training at the so-called. "Alpha Centre" with Captain Dragan and today there is the possibility that Sretko Kalinic, under pressure from Croatia, will testify in the process against Captain Dragan. How is it possible, who is responsible and did anyone in Serbia know that Croatian police literally handed it over from hand to hand to the Serbian police, Milos Simovic? How is it possible for someone to participate, allegedly according to the rulings made in the Republic of Serbia, Milorad Ulemek-Legija and Zvezdan Jovanovic, in the murder of Zoran Djindjic and that the neighbouring state of Croatia does not know about it? What we are interested in is whether the President of the Republic, Boris Tadic, took the opportunity to ask the new Croatian president, Mr Josipovic, does he know anything as professor of the Faculty of Law in Zagreb about how it is possible that two people suspected of participating in the assassination of the Serbian prime minister are, behold, miracles in Zagreb? I've been surfing the Internet a little bit and I've come up with some very interesting data. Croatia is a state that counts today slightly more than four million people. More than a million inhabitants of Croatia are doing what they do in local self-government, as in state authorities. There was no physical possibility that Milos Simovic and Sretko Kalinic were hiding in Zagreb for seven years without Croatia knowing about it. Croatia knew about this and the real question is what is the role of Croatia, what is the role of the Croatian intelligence service in what happened in Belgrade on 12 March 2003? These days against Vojislav Seselj and the SRS are being led by an unprecedented media hack. It is clear to all of us that Vojislav Seselj has managed to defeat The Hague tribunal, that all the prosecution's witnesses have become witnesses, that no one has said an ugly word about Vojislav Seselj, and now it has become clear that Vojislav Seselj will soon, in a few months, be found in Serbia. Someone's obviously afraid of it. That someone is the one who launched the false news that Vojislav Seselj intends to kill him. Of course, that's not the first false information. I have to remind you that this is the alleged fifth or sixth time anyone's been working on the head of Tomislav Nikolic. In the fall of 2008, just after being separated from the SRS, Mr Tomislav Nikolic launched false news that he wanted to be killed by a certain Niko Gajic from the Krtkovics. And otherwise Vojislav Seselj was indicted, among other things, for rallying in Krtkovci on 6 May 1992 by The Hague tribunal. A police check found that such a man does not live in the territory of the Croatian local community at all, or anywhere in Serbia. Then false information was released that Tomislav Nikolic wanted to kill the Duke of Vasilija, the Duke of Vasca. Anyone who knows this man knows that man is very hard to move and without other people's help can hardly go to the bathroom, let alone kill anyone. And now, when it became clear that Vojislav Seselj would return to the country as a free man, a media campaign was launched that he on the one hand ordered the murder of Tomislav Nikolic, on the other hand being part of a clan that allegedly participated in the preparation of the assassination of Zoran Djindjic. In 2003 and 2010 the Serbian Radical Party asked for one and the same, to establish the true political background of the late Zoran Djindjic's murder, to light up, we repeat once again, which is the role of the neighbouring state of Croatia and its intelligence service in the murder of the Serbian prime minister. How is it possible that no one knows that Sretko Kalinic and Milos Simovic are hiding in Zagreb, although it is a public secret that the Croatian intelligence service is an extended hand of the CIA? How could there be a man hiding in Zagreb who could easily fall under Croatian legislation and be charged with war crimes in the territory of Croatia, I mean Sretko Kalinic, because he was a member of Captain Dragan's formation? And just like that, there's nowhere to hide on the globe of the Earth, can you imagine, but is hiding in Zagreb? This is an important topic, and we are interested -- is the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Boris Tadic, who allegedly sent a text to Tomislav Nikolic, asking Ivo Josipovic about the role of the Republic of Croatia, its intelligence and police structures, in the murder of the man that Boris Tadic inherited at the post of president of the DS? Otherwise, the SRS is taking this opportunity, as it is a very important topic, to ask the president of the Republic of Serbia, the government of Serbia, the justice minister to Mrs. Snezani Malovic -- what fate will the exiled Serbs from Republika Srpska face if they go to the Croatian embassy here in Belgrade and ask if they are on some secret indictment? What fate will Serbs who have been expelled from Republika Srpska go to Zagreb to question whether they might be on a secret indictment? Whether these people will be handcuffed and told – yes, sir, you are on the charge of this and that prosecution from Croatia, we are now bringing you in and now we are going to judge you for war crimes. I did not notice that Ivo Josipovic's visit or the president of the Republic, and the minister of justice was opened in the right way. It is scandalous that you, a friend of the Republic of Serbia, think of your European partner as a country that is now secretly pursuing several hundred Serbs, who are absolutely not responsible for anything other than fighting against Tudjman's regime that announced the new genocide that Serbs survived during World War II. I also don't know, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, whether you missed the statement by the president of the Republic of Croatia, Ivo Josipovic, in Subotica, that he felt not as a guest, but as a host. Now imagine that Boris Tadic goes to Knin, spins his head from DS, I say he said that and you know that he said it, but now I ask you – to spend Boris Tadic or any Serbian official, including one of you, the MPs, to go, say, to Knin, to go to Benkovac and say – I do not feel like a guest in Knin, but I feel like a host.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43182	I am informing the National Assembly that a representative of the LDP parliamentary group has been authorised to act as the 14th National MP, Judita Popovic. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43183	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, indeed it was time to decide who Serbia's legal colleges would represent in the Supreme Council of the Judiciary. Indeed, the Liberal Democratic Party has nothing special to point out, challenge or in any way comment on the person proposed for a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. We believe that this body should be fully established and organized to function in full composition. We've received some information on this candidate's biographical data. We find biographical data very impressive. It's about a man with years of experience in scientific work, pedagogical work, professor of the Faculty of Law in Nis, who taught at the universities in Nis, at the Palace, a man who did doctoral dissertation on the responsibility of the Indemnity Administration, which is also very important, given that it's a person, a man who will and how to know what it means if the administration doesn't shut up, or if the court doesn't do what it's supposed to do, and that's primarily to judge, and not to be passive and to delay incessant court proceedings. The silence of the administration or the passivity of the court has very harmful consequences for the citizens of Serbia. Therefore, as for this person as a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, the LDP supports this candidacy and we are ready to vote for the gentleman who was proposed in front of Serbia's law school. The Liberal Democratic Party has pointed out from the very announcement of judicial reform that this reform is necessary, that it is necessary to reform both courts and prosecutors, that this is the backbone of reform in Serbia, that without a thorough, real and serious reform of the judiciary we cannot talk about any reform of society. If the judicial reform is well implemented, in this case we will also have a market economy, we will also have an economy that will be able to bear all that the transition time expects from the economy. When we passed a set of judicial laws, there were many words about whether these laws were the rights that would really lead to judicial reform or only laws that would bring even greater interference in the work of the courts or prosecutors. Normally, every beginning is difficult and it is normal that reform can never be seen as one moment, but one process in that segment where it really wants to reform something. Therefore, this past period of just over a year certainly does not mean that we today can make a serious cut of the effects of this reform, given that this reform obviously faces very many obstacles which are part of a subjective nature and a good part and objective nature. The reform of the judiciary fell first and foremost on the burden of the Justice Ministry, and for the better and for the better part, judicial reform must be carried out by both courts and prosecutors. Why would I share that responsibility with these two reformers? Because the Ministry is what the laws propose, the Ministry is what creates the conditions for this reform to be implemented, and the courts and prosecutors are the institutions that implement this reform and if in one of these segments something gets stuck, in which case the whole procedure is in crisis. There seem to be a lot of misunderstandings about this reform. First of all, for this reason, because one part of the reform went on and continued untransparently. First of all, it is important that those actions, which can be shown to the public, be shown as clearly as possible, as more comprehensively and as objectively as possible, without allowing any guesses, not to be allowed to fantasize and play too much with this serious subject. First of all, it may be necessary to explain to the public what the general choice means and what re-election of judges means, what is in the process, whether a general choice of judges or only re-election has been made in Serbia. I would like to remind you that in Serbia the re-election of judges and the general choice of judges was made in the earlier period. For example, it is forgotten that the general choice of judges was made even after the 1990 Constitution was passed, when the composition of courts and prosecutors was changed to a good extent, given that a new constitution was adopted. So when the Constitution was adopted in 2006, the provisions of the constitution resulted in the need to also make a general choice, therefore not re-election, not re-election of existing judges. This means that it does not go to the selection of these judges by whether or not these judges meet the conditions, but rather by reducing the number of judges to a large extent and moving from zero to select judges as in the general election procedure. This means that anyone who graduated from law school, who fits the conditions that he could run for office and file for his candidacy and request to elect a judge, could have done so whether he was a judge or not. This is a big difference between reelection and general elections, and it seems to me that there are very big public concerns why some judges have not been elected, why some have been elected, and I think it would be good for the Ministry of Justice to explain and explain to the public the whole procedure that took place during the general election of judges. As far as the courts and prosecutors are concerned, I think it's clear that when judges and prosecutors are elected, that in this way they have not acquired one loan for their entire future work, in that they will no longer be called to account, that no one will question what the results of the work, what about the quality, what about the quantity of work, that no one will pay attention to whether the courts and prosecutors are really doing what these institutions are doing. Therefore, there is a great burden on today's judges and prosecutors, given the serious situation with regard to organised crime, corruption, and, indeed, because it is unfortunately not applicable laws or laws that can become good future generators of corruption. Why am I saying that? For this reason, since the judge, in addition to having one of the knowledge needed to perform a judicial function, and this also applies to prosecutors, above all, must be a person who will be able to respond properly, responsibly and responsibly to this challenge to judge in organised crime proceedings, in cases of corruption or in cases where the law is rather vague, confusing and giving various opportunities. Therefore, the judge must be a complete person who can assume the role and role of one measure in society, which will measure to what extent justice, justice and availability of justice will be provided, presented and given to one average citizen of Serbia. Unfortunately, today we are witnessing that somehow this reform of the judiciary does not go at that speed and does not go in such a quality as we expected and hoped for. Unfortunately, some mistakes seem to be walking. Some mistakes don't fix. Somehow, the control by the authorities gave in, so we have situations that courts are largely limited in their work, that they are overwhelmed by objects, that some things that can be simplified, that can be accelerated in various ways, it just doesn't seem. It does not seem that because of obstruction, it does not appear that because of ignorance or perhaps because someone dares not say it out loud, yes, certain mistakes have been made and these mistakes are now causing the situation to cause a great dissatisfaction of the citizens. Why can't that situation be corrected, that people wait hours to verify the most ordinary signatures in the courts? Why is it that only one court is appointed for the signing over, if in a big city such as Belgrade, there is the possibility that more courts are doing this? Why is this the case with regard to bringing cases into court registers? Why do you need such a complicated procedure? Why did we even bring this computer down to only one typewriter, instead of using it as one tool that can speed up and deliver more quality results regarding the registration and conduct of Serbia's trial. I think it's mistakes that and how they put all their work into work and lead to a great suffocation. In doing so, it is out of the question that to a large extent statistics are being misused, so I believe that no one has the right from the Ministry of Justice, and I do not think that judges or prosecutors have the right to do so, that the entire reform of the judiciary and the results of that reform should be reduced to statistics, but they are obliged to implement this reform until the end. They are really obliged to engage maximum, to control daily the work of courts in terms of errors that occur. That statistics and how they are processed and that it is not exclusively about some quantitative results, but that it is about to see if it really is about the availability of justice for the citizens of Serbia. Therefore, I underline once again, the LDP supports judicial reform, regardless of who is implementing it, but we cannot possibly support the bad steps, the bad procedures and the mistakes that seem to be, or which will appear in the future. It's one long process, one long walk in torment, but that doesn't mean we can look through anyone's fingers and say, well, that's hard, well, that's hard. There is a long period behind us where justice, justice and the availability of justice and how they were threatened and how they were marginalized. That's no excuse to continue with that practice. So the judiciary has to develop. It must develop with participation, with the support of the whole society, and above all through those institutions that are and how competent. The High Council of the judiciary is one of those institutions that is obliged to do everything in order to really reform the judiciary gives good results. Unfortunately, we are witnessing that not enough has been done so far, that it has not worked hard enough, but we expect that this will be done and that the public will be timely informed of all of that, of all the moves that will be taken precisely in favour of this reform, and not that this reform is being thrown into something that is contrary to it and simply raises their hands from the reform, as it has many times seemed in some other segments of society. Therefore, without reform of the judiciary, there is absolutely no reform of society, and above all there is no progress in the development of the economy. It seems to me that the economy is the sickest point of this society and it also needs to get foreign investment. Foreign investments run from countries where there is no judicial reform, in which the judiciary does not work because where courts and prosecutors do not do their jobs, capital is not safe, these investments are not safe and normal that no one who considers serious work and seriously invests in Serbia does not want to lose their capital and does not want its capital to be compromised and with a high degree of risk. So if they fail in judicial reform, I don't think we can expect any progress in society. We support the election of another member of the High Council of the Judiciary, and I think it was really time to finally agree on a coalition in power which of the professors of law is worthy and professional enough to be a member of the High Council of the Judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43184	16 minutes and 45 seconds of authorized representative time have been used. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a search for a word in writing, and with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: New Serbia, DSS – Vojislav Kostunica and the Serbian Radical Party. The first registered speaker is MP Srdjan Spasojevic, followed by MP Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43185	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, the respected citizens of Serbia, are today ahead of us the choice and practical completion of the High Council of the judiciary from the ranks of professors. Of course, like my predecessors, there's nothing wrong with saying about this proposal of the candidate himself. What New Serbia wants to point to is – why hasn't the High Council of the Judiciary been in full shape since the beginning? Why, if everyone points out the quality of this professor like this, it has not affected the choice of a large number of courts, because the practical choice of judges and prosecutors is over and it must be said that it is practically this solution when better solutions could have been found in the elections too late, because only in individual cases will it have a practical impact on work. Of course, this is the time to point out some other things when it comes to the work of the High Council of the Judiciary. You know that there have been a lot of problems, that the High Council of the Judiciary, according to the objections of the Society of Judges, some international institutions, has had a lot of failures in its work and, of course, the consequences are certainly felt. First of all, the consequences are that, here, specifically, because of these major objections and some contradictions that have occurred, we have a situation that the unselected judges will most likely receive another six months of full pay. So New Serbia has nothing to do with it, but can the citizens of Serbia in this major crisis pay for the practical failures of the High Council of the judiciary? Six more months, these people will be getting paid. We know there's a law to set up and elected faces, that the deadline is six months. Only if it matches some retirement deadline, then that deadline can be extended for a year. So we're interested in what basis is this extension allowed? Of course, the fact needs to be pointed out why unselected judges for violations in this country are exempt from this situation of receiving salaries for another six months? Of course, the consequences of our knowledge are that the High Council in all these things was quite busy. You know how many problems and conversations were there, even the unkind scenes, when the Society of Judges gave its objections and international institutions, so now we have one completely unnatural situation – that we have a deadline that has passed for V.D. The presidents of Serbia's courts. Practically, they've broken all the deadlines and we just don't know on which basis they're more guided as V.D. The President of the Court. So the election of the president of the courts was supposed to be over long ago. Of course, because of all these failures, it's very late. We don't know what we've achieved? So if we wanted to reduce the number of judges by who knows which instructions, we certainly did it, or the ruling coalition did it. As far as efficiency is concerned, we got practically nothing. We got that in the King, for example, in litigation, the trials were scheduled month after month, and now they are scheduled for three or four months. Simply, Serbian citizens who are trying to exercise their right will wait very long to achieve it, especially on a large number of non-executive executions. So 5,000 executive judgments are currently in the King that are not executed, and the number of IV cases is as much as 20,000. We will practically adopt such legal solutions and incredibly expensive court fees for citizens of Serbia and for those who want to exercise some of their rights, practically solve all the problems in this country. The people simply won't be able to stand trial. The last thing that in these difficult times, in a crisis situation, someone will want to exercise someone's right in a court of law, to prove something, because he knows that when there's a judicial verdict that happens in an executive procedure, he simply virtually deprives every opportunity to exercise his right. In addition, as I have stated, six more months these unselected judges will receive salaries, and we have a situation that is a huge number of judges from town to city, from place to place. Some even have the right to separate lives, some to paid accommodations, some have the right to transport costs. Then we must rightly ask ourselves what are we, gentlemen dear of the ruling coalition, saving? We're nothing. We have now collected everything that can be collected when it comes to the maintenance and service of the judicial system. Who knows what's gonna happen in six months? There may be some instructions again that unselected judges, due to unresolved status and poor work of the High Council of the Judiciary and poor elections, can't say that all bad choices are, but a large number of, that's the best evidence, this extension that will take six months, that there have been a lot of mistakes. It's a practical recognition of the High Council of the Judiciary that the choice was wrong. The truth must be looked into the eyes. Therefore, even some legal solutions are not being implemented. In criminal law, we have instituted guilty confessions. New Serbia has responded with the amendment, where we have been able to move this by amendment to twelve years, the height of the threatened sentence, relative to the original proposal. I don't know, and even in consultations and conversations with his colleagues, that guilty confession institute hasn't come to life at all. We make legal solutions that don't work out at all. When we look at all this, then we must clearly say that judicial reform in Serbia and the prosecutors, unfortunately, has failed. At least it didn't work for now. I hope that it would be very good for the citizens of Serbia to make a certain move, but this is how you started and that work will certainly not be a significant improvement. I am sure that the citizens of Serbia and the judges and prosecutors themselves will face major problems because they are literally buried in cases. When you get out of one judicial system at a time of 800 people and you have a complete one reform that's so fast, you remember that even the amendments we've tried to extend that deadline a little bit, wouldn't it be better if these people, who are now receiving these profits for another 6 months, were able to judge at least for a year or two, so that by one natural selection, given that many legal solutions have been changed by natural selection in terms of what kind of results are achieved in some period, that by these criteria the choice is made? I'm sure a lot of them would be in a bid. This is how we have a vicious circle. There's always some prolonging, like with other legal solutions. We also have a situation, as we had 15-20 days ago, that completely incompetent people suggest, that the President of the Republic propose such a solution from which each MP would turn in his head for the Constitutional Court judge, but these are some political compromises that must be respected and, unfortunately, such judges will comment tomorrow, or give their opinions, judge in some very specific situations, value the Constitution, appreciate some constitutional solutions, etc. We have seen these days that decisions by the Constitutional Court have significantly affected political life in Serbia, that decisions have been retroactively applied. And this morning I was talking about, that the judicial judgments of the District Court in the King are being interpreted retroactively in the wrong way, that the electoral will in one great city, such as the King's, is completely changing, and that is the consequence of all these things that I've been talking about. So, Serbian citizens, God help you when you need to speak to a judicial institution, because there you don't know what's waiting for you. Know for sure that you are facing extremely expensive court fees, which, given our receipts, are so great that it's amazing. A few days ago, when he was a minister of justice, I suggested that the law on the executive procedure be changed urgently, that court fees be charged after all proceedings have been completed, which will force the state and those judges who judge to quickly end cases in the interests of Serbian citizens. Courts exist to protect the right, both individually, and collectively and secondly. If you have a nonstop trial, a simple people's language, and you can't do it, then we haven't done anything that we're sitting here, then they haven't done anything to the citizens. But what is devastating is that decisions and conclusions of the government end court decisions, interpret court decisions, not only of the Constitutional Court, but of the Administrative Court. I have to admit, the Administrative Court was doing its job properly. In such a way, the government's conclusions, as I said, are changing political life and surely that what can happen, one day the government and some judicial verdicts, when it comes to criminal proceedings, may happen to the government's conclusion, I end up with someone not guilty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43186	People's MP, the time available to the MP's group has been used. The word has a folk MP, Milica Radovic, followed by the people sent by Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43187	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing the election of the last member of the First Council of the Judicial Council, bodies that have been largely established, and that, in fact, today and today, not all of its members have been elected. This is the body that played the most important role in the re-election process. I will remind you that it has made a decision on the number of judges required, that it has proposed candidates for the first time to take office, i.e. for the first time, and that it has played an important role in the re-election process itself. All these activities have been completed recently, without two members of the High Council of the Judiciary, one from the line of lawyers, and the other from the ranks of representatives of the Law School. The high council of the judiciary has made very controversial, but at the same time, unfortunately, crucial decisions for the Serbian judiciary in an incomplete assembly. It seems to me that this information, that he has worked all the time in an incomplete assembly, is not something that too much merits the public's attention and something of great importance, even though it is information that calls into question the overall election process and the validity of the election of judges now elected in Serbia. How many shortcomings in the re-election process are also best shown by the European Commission's report, which pointed to concerns primarily the composition and independence of the VSS and the State Council of the Prosecutors, which relate to the application of objective criteria during the election itself and the procedure itself, i.e. openness, transparency of the proceedings itself and reliability of the proceedings. This is completely right for the Serbian public to feel like a big slap when it comes to the Serbian judiciary. Now, as VSS has worked in a secure manner and performed the role it had been assigned to him in the reelection of judges, it is best to show that, unfortunately, among the re-elected judges, a judge who had recently passed away before the election, two judges at the same time found themselves elected to two different places in Serbia, that one person was first elected as a judge and later also a deputy prosecutor. Should I mention that two members of the VSS, at least two members, are in direct conflict of interest, because they participated, one of them, who, as VSS president, participated in the election and promotion of his son to a higher court, and another member of the VSS participated in the choice of his wife as judge? Do I need to talk about the VSS having an obligation, but somehow he forgot that, to make his decisions in writing, to make a written correction of such a decision and to assign them individually to judges who have not primarily passed the re-election and to those judges who have been re-elected? In this way, the right of those judges who were not chosen to impose a legal remedy was exercised. That's why all this chaos we now have at the VSS and the Constitutional Court. These are cardinal errors in the functioning of the VSS, which deserves to be resolved, but the law unfortunately does not foresee such an option. This body is not intended by law as a body that can be resolved, even if it does this sort of thing, more specifically, it's irreplaceable. It is true that they are running out of mandate soon, but if they are not resolved, there is no legal possibility for them to do so, it is understood that they have worked fully in accordance with the law. The first meeting of the High Council of the Judiciary is, to remind, chosen by one special, privileged procedure. I note that the members of the High Council of the judiciary did not pass the re-election and that they had privileged office in that sense that the moment their mandate ended in the VSS, not only did they secure their position as judges, but they ensured their position to become judges in a higher instance. During the election of the High Council of the judiciary, much was taken into account that they are somehow thinking the same way, that there is no excessive leap, at least when their thinking and opinion on individual candidates are at stake. That may be why we have waited this long to fill out the composition of the High Council of the judiciary, primarily on members of the law department and members of the law school professors. A member of the law office was recently elected, but his choice is controversial because he was not proposed by that institution which was legally competent to do so, it is primarily the Assembly of the Bar of Lawyers, but was done by the Management Board of the Bar Association and thus directly injured by Article 36. The law on the High Council of the Judiciary. It's about a lawyer from Nis. I think this definition is much more important than his name and name. To make things even weirder, and today's candidate, who I personally don't mind, also comes from Nis. If more information is added to this – that the chairman of the National Assembly's Justice Committee is also from Nis, and he is a member of the VSS, then it is to conclude that somehow Nis has become a real part of the highest quality legal staff. When a member of the High Council of the Judiciary of the Office, primarily I think of the professors of law school, he could have been elected in October 2009, but since he was at the joint session of the dean of all the law schools in Serbia for the sole candidate, Professor. Zoran Tomic, because he was either not responding to the ruling majority or not responding to the VSS composition, is a point, without too many words, removed from the agenda of the National Assembly. As for today's candidate, I believe that the outcome will be something different, because unlike the previous candidate, this professor and candidate comes from Nis, which I believe is a much more important provision and what is still the most appreciated today when it comes to selecting members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43188	Eight minutes and 15 seconds of MP time were used. The People's Messenger Mirko Munjic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43189	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a proposal for a candidate for a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, a candidate who, in accordance with Articles 35, 37 and 53. The law on the High Council of the Judiciary suggests a joint session of the dean of law schools. We have that proposal here. At the beginning of this debate, I would briefly refer to something that represents one assessment of this joint session of the law school's dean, which concerns the failure to elect a member as proposed by the law school's dean. In their assessment, the law school deans point out that they have no responsibility because so far, one candidate has not been elected, that they are not responsible, because of the two candidates proposed after the January 2009 session, none of the candidates here received the necessary parliamentary majority, and the required assembly majority was not given a candidate who was proposed after the September 2009 Joint Meeting of the Law School Dean. So they claim they have no responsibility for it and it is certain that the deans of law school are right that they are not responsible for it, that there was no need for the majority here to accept one of these proposals. Whether the majority of them didn't want to give VSS, whether I stood up to Bosko Ristic or someone else, we don't know that in this case, and it doesn't matter that much. As for the concrete proposal given this time, which concerns Professor Predrag Dimitrijevic, from these features that we could read, related to this candidate, it is evident that it is one of the top experts and it seems to me that there would be nothing to add or subtract. However, what I could wish a man as a candidate who, I suppose, would be elected by this assembly majority, is that in his work, as a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, he will not be in any way as specific to the work of the VSS, as some other members of the VSS do. If all the characteristics that go with this candidate are correct, and we have no reason to doubt anything that has been given with his work biography, I believe that this candidate will have enough power to rise above the individual members of the VSS that have already been elected. One of the basic principles on which each judge and prosecutor's office should operate is in fact the principle of personal responsibility. This principle implies, sublimes, an entire combination of personal, professional, moral, and above all human responsibilities. In doing so, all of them should strive to make the most correct, fairest and most objective decisions and decisions based solely on unarmed evidence. So if the responsibility of those who are holders of judicial and prosecutorial functions is so complex and so great, then the responsibility of those who choose them is even more complex and even more complex. I think it's clear and unequivocal and by the very logic of things. You know, if someone suggests someone to a function, especially a responsible function like a judge and prosecutor, of course that someone should be a role model to whoever is proposing it. Simply, these should be persons of extraordinary professional, moral, professional, and, I say, most of the human traits, and those with a very extensive sense of justice and justice and a very expressed sense of personal responsibility. Finally, these are persons who should be behind the proposal to choose that and that prosecutor, that and that judge, etc. So these are persons, I'm talking about members of the High Council of the Judiciary, who, on their shoulders, need to bear the burden of greatest responsibility. Not less responsibility regarding the proposal for a member of the High Council of the judiciary should also be given to the joint session of the Dean of Law, who this time also proposes to us the candidate of Professor Predrag Dimitrijevic for this very responsible function. I don't want to comment much on the professional, professional and other qualities of this man, I just want him to be in his professional work, and I want him to actually rise above some members of the High Council of the Judiciary that have been elected so far. I'm going to say something about one of the qualities that each individual has or that adorns certain members of the High Council of the judiciary, and in some ways this body in general. That trait, like a boomerang, is passed on to judges and prosecutors, and that seems to me to be the most painful of ordinary citizens. It is also a matter of some arrogance of certain institutions of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, and it is also a trait that is passed on to judges and prosecutors, and this is about their personal arrogance and their untouchableness, especially when it comes to numerous, I would say, thousands and thousands, perhaps tens of thousands of unresolved problems, unresolved procedures that lie in one's drawers because someone wants it. It's, of course, clear to you, political-party decisions. In the people, there is a much more plastic expression for this arrogance. Unfortunately, that expression is not quite enough for this tall home, but it expresses these character traits of some people much more plastic. In order to explain to the citizens and to illustrate the situation that no vote of a member of the People's Parliament here can reach out to certain members of the High Council of the judiciary, no matter how directly we speak to them from here. I had such an opportunity here when I addressed one occasion directly to the members of the High Council of the judiciary, Mrs. Malovic, Minister of Justice, and Mr. Bosko Ristic. When my voice as a MP couldn't be heard here, conditionally I say hear, or he couldn't reach them as members of the High Council of the judiciary, how would they be reached by the voice of the citizens, so those who have thousands and thousands of unresolved problems? I really wish that at this point I could, just today when the election of this member of the High Council of the Judiciary is being made, to say all these problems that bother these citizens, but I have said it before and now I repeat it, it is thousands and tens of thousands of these problems, and since that is impossible, I will say just one example of how many MPs can't reach the members of the High Council of Justice, as far as it is some arrogance, blatantness, etc. In my own time, I, from the Assembly's pay phone, have in some way accused two members of the High Council of the judiciary of one judge, Jelena Curcic, who was elected this evening for one responsible post here in the Assembly, that, as president of the Electoral Commission, she made eight different decisions at eight different sessions, eight different decisions without any session of the electoral commission being held. I repeat, I said that in front of two members of the High Council of the Judiciary and nothing. Seven months ago, criminal charges were filed against her and some other responsible persons for the crime of abuse of official office. I hereby invite and inform the members of the High Council of the Judicial Council and members of the State Council of Prosecutors, as well as the Minister of Justice and the Chief Prosecutor, that the case has been held for seven months in the Main Prosecutor's Office in Cacca, together with all necessary and relevant evidence, along with statements by ten witnesses supporting all of this. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what else does it take to get an object out of someone's drawer after seven months? There is a fine sentiment, which in translation from the Latin to the Serbian around, this sentiment cannot be applied directly, except indirectly, perhaps to our judiciary and our High Council of Justice, refers to another area and says – save God, that the surgeon does not start thinking about the afterlife during surgery. I'd say, God forbid some members of the High Council don't choose the judiciary or propose judges and prosecutors. But fate has set us up with a different scenario for now, so that's exactly what's going on, and by when it's really going to be, we're going to see.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43190	12 minutes and 50 seconds of MP time have been used. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43191	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will remind you briefly what we are discussing today, which is the choice of a member of the High Council of the judiciary from the law professors' order in Serbia. Namely, the High Council of the judiciary is a constitutional category and it was established for the first time with the Constitution like this and in this form for the first time with this new constitution. It has been said that the High Council of the judiciary has 11 members, three per position and eight elected. Under the post, without elections, the justice minister, the Supreme Cassation Court president and the chairman of the Board of Administration and Justice are automatically entering. Six members are judges, making sure that the president of the court cannot be a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and two members are elected from the ranks of prominent lawyers, with 15 years of working experience, one of which should be a lawyer and another prominent professor of law. Dear colleagues, remember when at the last session we had the choice of one judge of the Constitutional Court and you saw what the biography was like. What I have now, I hope you have, too, see that it's in more serious form. Something to conclude when reading the biography of this candidate, Professor Predrag Dimitrijevic, which I can conclude is that a man loves his great Serbia, because he taught legal papers in Serbian Sarajevo, taught in Pristina, taught in some other places. He was born, graduated, lives in Nis. If something and could be resented, even though my colleagues did not point out, it does not matter, he has shown interest in international legal discipline since 2000. Mostly his attending these courses or training, as you like to write and say with the modern jargon, it was in the western part. Here only perhaps a little follow-up is missing and the parallel right would be more complete for Professor Dimitrijevic, if he had attended those trainings and those lectures in the east. I'm sure there's something you can learn there, but that's less important. If this candidate is elected 11 members of the High Council of the Judiciary, it can be concluded that in 2010 she was professionally for him, in private we certainly want him to be such, but in a professional sense quite successful, because he was also elected Dean of the Faculty of Law in Nis on 14 May. Now if he is elected a member of the High Council of the Judiciary, it is a very successful year. In this way, and if he is elected a member of the High Council of the Judiciary, I think the structure of the members of the High Council of the judiciary will be quite satisfied because he is someone who has the right of speciality. Given that out of 11 members are a total of six judges, then it is certain to conclude that we will have one per structure perhaps a quality composition. As Col. Milica pointed out, we have one of these 11 members of the Nis High Council. This is the representative of the Bar Association of Lawyers, not the Assembly of the Bar Association, our colleague Bosko Ristic, as chairman of the Board of Administration and Justice, and finally Professor Dimitrijevic. So we have three candidates in one space. I don't know if anyone may be thinking, not certainly Professor Dimitrijevic, but Bosko Ristic, perhaps, that the Police Academy has its headquarters in Nis, or maybe some training or some training that won't take place in Nis. I tried here a little bit in a funny way to bring this up, but really not jeopardizing Professor Dimitrijevic's professional competence, about this and this time and later, it must be taken care of because I am absolutely certain, as well as other fellow MPs, who spoke and you who do not talk about this subject, that there are quality experts in other parts too. It would be a good opportunity for what you're always talking about, but it seems to me that it's just declarative, that the other parts should be equally and evenly and developed and treated. But you're just talking about even development here, and he's not like that on the ground. I've recently had a chance to confirm a statement in Loznica where the local tax is 70 dinars and the Republic's administrative fee is 720 dinars. Now I'm asking you -- is this a desire for even regional development or are we going to make some regions, and there will be no talking about regional development? It must be taken very seriously. This is a good opportunity to say something about the reforms of the judiciary that have begun, I would say and dare say so, in a negative sense since 2000. There has never been a serious and significant function to the judiciary, a role that it and the Constitution, and it simply deserves, for the needs of our citizens, but never more serious collapse in the justice system, including the prosecution, has certainly not been as it has been since 2000, because since then, negative selection has been dominated, which, you will admit, no one seriously wants. But it seems to me that many serious people don't even want to be serious about this issue and the fact that today we're talking about this subject suggests that those who support the government and the executive government, who are most directly involved in the system, in a particular branch, which is a judicial branch, has no intention of pointing to anything. If today and if there is an agreement for this candidate to be elected, which has not been the case before, twice and almost two years as the High Council of the Judiciary is working in the british composition and was not a representative of the law school, although at a joint session on 29 January 2009, they made a decision and proposed three candidates, and in the meantime one gave up, and later in September 2009, it was also proposed by the legal colleges of candidates, but it was not elected here, it did not get the required majority. If you have agreed on this now, but this candidate on your part deserves a word of praise or perhaps not to express our suspicion that he is trying to convey a significant influence in one part, and it is certainly not because of Professor Dimitrijevic, nor because of this lawyer who is a member of the High Council of the Judiciary, but probably because of the chairman of the Board of Administration and Justice. Because if we were to take care of some interests, then someone who deals with law enforcement, even though the Constitution said that the chairman of the Board of Administration and Justice and a member of the High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, and since the man is a professional lawyer, then it would be logical to resign as chairman of that committee. It's safe and we have the data from practice, in the election of judges, that there was a lot of influence. The choice of judges is done in such a way or re-election, call whatever you want, and they know what the Serbian citizens know, and we know what it was about, is done by giving political parties supporting the government certain quotas. I spoke when we talked, when it was a fundamental topic, it is now and as it touches this subject, that certain judges have been admitted to a particular court, and that they neither competed in that court nor in that court at all, but perhaps elsewhere. Then we had such a situation that they were admitted there or told by someone from the High Council of the judiciary or by someone who was delegated from certain members of the High Council of the judiciary where they should compete because they will be admitted to that place, and no other place will be accepted. Here we were assured, when there was a choice of judges, that it would now achieve efficiency, that everything that was wrong would be eliminated, which hadn't been right for years. One of his colleagues said that he would no longer have to attend in Mionica, or the judge would not have to be inadequately dressed because the room was not warm enough. That's not what citizens are looking for. They are asked that when they come to court, they can exercise their rights. It doesn't matter if the room is air-conditioned, even though it creates good working conditions no one will object. Have we achieved today after that election, do we have such a situation in Serbia today? I'm sure we don't. Update is not at the level at which it was and now we would have enough understanding and patience, we as parties that can appear in court proceedings, if we were at least sure that this choice was good, but it certainly wasn't good. Members of the High Council of the judiciary play a huge role and importance in establishing a good system in the judiciary. Will all of these be able to answer these questions and be able to accomplish such a thing? I don't know, if there's a way of choosing and members of the High Council of the judiciary, and especially how the judges were elected, and that was also political distribution and agreement. I can also understand that a political agreement can be in force who will be the director of a public enterprise, but in court, politics must never be undominant, but must have no influence at all. Because, finally, by law, these are the people who decide the freedom of each of us. If so, then his choice must be completely clean and completely out of the influence of politics. He was gone. We don't see how the judges are now elected, that they'll be moved, that it's eliminated, but on the contrary, it might even be strengthened in the area of justice. But somehow it happened to us, maybe when we adopted the Rules of Procedure, that is, those who did the Rules of Procedure should have this in mind. Here, several points of the agenda, such as the election of the governor of the National Bank, such as the election of members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, as was the choice of Judge of the Constitutional Court, we have no one on behalf of these people, on behalf of the promoter who might appear here. If sometimes something was not regulated by the Rules of Procedure, then it should have been when we adopted this Rules of Procedure that we have in mind, and I have to send this as a small objection to the current National Assembly, respecting what she as a People's Parliamentarian and Parliamentarian with very high experience knows and skill, perhaps in this sense you could have submitted some amendments, so that we could talk about this very serious topic, and the previous one was extremely serious for both the MPs and the citizens of Serbia, that we had representatives and that we know what we are talking about and that people could express certain views and opinions. I don't know who I could make this appeal to. We don't have law on law enforcement, we don't have law on notaries, we don't even have it in the assembly procedure, and maybe it's topics that someone could have talked about, and everything about this agenda point. I hope you choose this candidate. If that is the case, I appeal on behalf of the SRS to be professional, quality, that what has theoretically been taught to apply, and in practice as a member of the High Council of the Judiciary, as well as to simply assist the courts that are now in Serbia. If Srdjan Spasojevic's colleagues were not here to talk, but every day about the government's conclusion and about the decisions of the District Court in the King and about the decision of the Administrative Court, no one would know what it was about and that the electoral will of the citizens of the Kings was misused. When I say so, I don't share them by party membership, but I share them with those who had the active right to go to the 11 May 2008 elections and that, on the basis of their will, local authority is formed which was, and in no case can the electoral will of the citizens of one city, including the Kings, change the conclusion of the supposed Government, which is certainly just one minister, Mr Markovic. I don't think that's gonna serve him any honor in his professional career.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43192	Fourteen minutes and 55 seconds used by the MP's group. The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43193	On the grounds of the motion of a candidate for a member of the High Council of the Judiciary, I must first of all give an explanation as to why I am an economist on the subject. As for the Rules of Procedure, since it is not adopted as a law every day, for many of us there have been unknowns that a single search has also covered amendments, in which we have, in some cases, spoken on purpose about our amendments that are essentially not adopted, simply in today's work, we did not expect that two important topics, the resolution of the previous governor, the proposal for a new one, were so quickly completed and that only three opposition parties participated in this debate, using their time until the end, to be a subject simply not interesting to the rest of the parliamentary opposition. We suddenly come into a situation where our work on the subject, the proposal of a candidate for a member of the High Court, ends before six o'clock and that at six or 1800 hours, as someone likes to say, we discuss the details of the Trade Act. Not wanting this debate to begin six days ago, I and my colleague Veroljub Arsic will also announce it, because it is your turn to announce what you will do when you are serious, all the 45 minutes that the parliamentary group has to take advantage of, trying not to begin today's debate on this next important topic in particular. But if you think I'm gonna spend this time giving you a chance to warn me, or say I'm not talking about the subject, you're wrong. Because there's not a topic that's on the agenda that you're not giving us enough space to criticise. Why according to the Rules of Procedure, both the old and the one to be voted on, you are already a planned day, we from the opposition are less important, valuable, our plans are irrelevant, we do not know when to vote, there is no way to explain candidates for a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Respecting Professor Mirko Vasiljevic, the man with whom I once made my full contribution to work one of the first contracts for the Beocician cement factory, which later served for abuses, sold at a lower price, when the war was already over, means, out of respect for him, out of the lack of a business way of presenting this candidate to a member of the High Council of the Judiciary, first of all, to read what Prof. Mirko Vasiljevic wrote. He says that from the chairman of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, Mrs Nate Mesarovic, he received a letter on 1 July 2010 that, as dean of Serbia's oldest law school, he schedules a joint session of the Dean of Law Colleges and that, in accordance with the provisions of Articles 37 and 35. Law on the High Council of the Judiciary, do the job. He held the joint session of the dean on Monday, July 5th 2010, at the University of Belgrade Law Faculty, with the presence of all ten deans. The unanimous assessment of the dean is that this body has done everything that the Law on the High Council of the Judiciary provides and that it has proposed its candidates in two degrees. Here, already criticises the current authorities and these reformers of the judiciary, which, by this proposal, Mirko Vasiljevic warns that he has done his job as the law predicts already in two strokes, meaning on two occasions. Three candidates were proposed at the first joint session since 29 January 2009. By the session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, one candidate withdrew his candidacy, and the other two did not get enough votes to vote. At a new joint session, held on September 29th, I am now warning you, meaning from January 29th to September 29th, a full eight months have passed, a candidate has been proposed. So someone was instructed to do the late job, but the candidate did not get enough votes from the MPs, which means that the candidate apparently, by some silent criteria and criteria, did not correspond to the ruling majority of 126 hands. It's obvious from the exposed that this is a body, says professor. Vasiljevic, did his best to elect a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and to come in the way the law provides, from the law professor's order, and it is not responsible that the choice has not been made so far. From this I conclude that someone called or not to use a harsher word, pressured them to suggest that they did not do their job in a responsible way, as soon as they were literally defending themselves. The college deans are unique in the assessment that the theoretically unacceptable interpretation of certain assembly committees or bodies, the loss of passive voting law, or that once a proposed and unselected candidate for a member of the High Council of the judiciary should not be a candidate again. If it doesn't suit anyone tonight that this session lasts longer than they planned, enough reason for us to be satisfied is you, Mrs. Komic, and I, in this sentence. College deans are unique in the assessment that the theoretically unacceptable interpretation of certain assembly committees or bodies is that losing passive voting rights is when you propose a candidate and he is not elected, that he cannot be a candidate again. What colleges were completed by members of these bodies of the Assembly, which were proposed by the teachers to now come to the theoretical conflict of the professors of law and members of this body, or we return to that wonderful Italian professor, whom you and I, Mrs. Comic, had the opportunity to listen to in the Small Hall of this House, Mr. Franccini of Italy. He said that those sitting in assembly halls very quickly forget their profession and responsibility to the citizens and just as the national parliaments in the European Parliament have been expelled to the last bench, so the professional conscience of many MPs has been driven somewhere into the drawers of the locked conscience of MPs sitting in this House. Notwithstanding the previous position and in order to protect the integrity of the professor, three candidates for this post have been proposed at the meeting, in accordance with the adopted Regulation on how and procedure for selecting candidates. Article 5 The rules on the way and procedure of selecting candidates for a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary are provided for candidates for members of the Council to be seen as candidates who receive most of the votes of the deans present. So, regardless of the fact that the professors were theoretically right and did not give the rights of members of the body of this congregation home, they were still forced, if they wanted to participate with their candidate in this body, they had to agree to the dictatorship of the congregation committee. And they did as they were commanded. After a secret vote was held for all three candidates, the majority of the votes, six out of ten present, received Prof. Dr. Predrag Dimitrijevic. In accordance with the provisions of Article 53. The Law on the High Council of the Judiciary, which takes into account the results of the vote for the proposed candidates, set out a proposal for a member of the High Council of the judiciary to propose Prof. Dr. Predrag Dimitrijevic, dean of the Faculty of Law in Nis. They sent us a biography and a statement from the candidate to accept the candidacy. In signature – Prof. Dr. Mirko Vasiljevic. In the second part of my presentation, I'll say something about the candidate's biography. Now I want to take the opportunity to give my MP group's position to Serbia and my party, the Serbian Progressive Party, as in this country and the meaning of the word "law" and the sense of the word "right" can be changed if it needs the current authority. As one professor of law school is believed to be a member of the High Council of the Judiciary and that it is not any negative cumulation of functions, according to this analogy, we have been entertained for two days by a proposal that mayors can also be MPs, where the original proposal of the Anti-Corruption Agency was to disable the cumulation of functions and that each person performs only one responsible function. I am truly sorry and surprised, because I know the maturity of politicians such as Mr. Dragan Markovic Palma, to be abused, to promise him most, by promising support for such an amendment, and then the problem turns out to be that the amendment should be withdrawn because it is a cumulation function. No, I don't. It is not a cumulation of functions, it is an unconstitutional reading of laws that treat the matter of what the executive authority is entitled to, what it can perform simultaneously in one person legislative authority, executive power and what the Anti-Corruption Agency is obliged to apply, in accordance with this law. By submitting amendments to that law, we in one of our amendments to Article 29 of this Anti-Corruption Agency Act, I am just talking about those who are not clear about how this is about the subject, that we wanted to protect such excellent candidates, professors, who are working under the circumstances in the state college, where there is State participation, mostly or in any percentage, so that such people, who have significant theoretical knowledge and can make a very large contribution to the work of some authorities, which could be interpreted by this law as conflict of interest, cannot be disabled by the law itself, which we have done with the amendment, but at the same time we have met with the abuse of those who would suit themselves, so that it can be translated into their case. We have been facing the question all day – does our amendment to Article 29 of this Law, where we foresee exceptions, mean that in fact the province's MPs could perform one more function or where could the mayors remain MPs? Whether in our legal system that is being converted, freely and conditionally I can say, in the anti-system, there is a problem that everything that you try legally, with the best intentions, to introduce it into a legal procedure, is at the same time seen as an opportunity for abuse or for the use of functions in such a way that one to whom it would actually be able to read that amendment. Listening to the discussion of all colleagues yesterday, even from the ruling majority, I even think of Mr. Dragan Markovic's party, where a man with the right to be surprised that there is someone in the conflict of interest on the school board, while at the same time he is a committee of local self-government, where there really is no conflict of interest, nor can there be any abuse of conflict of interest, and that is one of the cases that can be brought under our amendment to Article 29, we have faced the explanations that the mayors could read this as a possibility that they would perform two functions at the same time. What does it mean, what am I talking about? You cannot read the laws by treating the cumulation of two functions in incompatible functions. So where the Constitution is clear and prescribed, under Article 4, that there is a division of the legislative, judicial and executive power, an MP who is in the legislative body, the mayor who is an executive body, simply writes that these are branches of authorities that are incompatible and there is no other law, Lex Specialis or do not give God the amendment that would allow it, and that actually means breaking the Constitution, because the Constitution needs to be respected. On the other hand, the functions of the committees and MPs are also incompatible, because one authority is laying down regulations and the other one is fulfilling them. It is also something that can be read unequivocally from the Constitution. According to these views, or regulations, it is not possible for anyone to have two functions directly chosen from citizens. So I would really like those who feel that there is an evil intention to hear me, because this is a unique opportunity to explain the purpose of the law, the bodies that interpret these laws, and also the High Council of the judiciary, which is not without direct connection to the Constitution and its interpretation. So it's impossible for someone to be elected to two functions by the citizens directly, on any system that is, majority, or president, or any other, without coming into conflict with the Constitution, at the same time serving two functions, executive and legislative, and having the Director of the Agency for that, for example, give him consent or leave him a deadline to coordinate or select one of these two functions. What I want to point out is this. What you deliver to us, and in a short time you say, at 3:20 p.m., at 4:00 p.m., when we're done, we'll start the Law on Trade, the debate in particular. For example, I left the material in Novi Sad. It doesn't matter, I can do it without the material, you'll see if we can get there, if it doesn't work out to try to spend the time by 6:00. But when you give us a deadline Friday night to analyse what you have imagined and to submit to you the amendments by Tuesday when the session begins and you are now trying to interpret in that part of that amendment to Article 29 a direct choice to function as is appropriate by the authorities, you get such a reminder as you received from the dean of the law school, Mr. Mirko Vasiljevic. He says -- we did our job the way we should in January. The fact that you didn't want to vote for our candidate and that after eight months of convincing us to do it again, that's not our problem. It's a problem that you want in every function, it's called that function in the regulatory body, especially when it's called a function in an independent body, it's actually someone who's willing, a picture and an opportunity of who you've imagined, in the same way that in the largest number of public procurements, you draw pictures of someone who needs to get a job. Now, a little crackdown that the public procurement laws produced not only the company's tax evasion phantom, but, for me, it was a newspaper, and we also got the company's fan of the Public Procurement Act, which after recalibrating these companies that actually get the job so they don't file a complaint and delay the process of getting a job. Are you able to see what some laws, which you bring here and to which we make observations, bring you into practice? There's another kind of phantom company, they show up in bankruptcy, they pay a down payment to take someone's company, so if someone doesn't give them a racket that requires them to give up or make a deal, the company goes away. Keep in mind, and let those who listen to this record be accounted for in time, until the exceptions become a rule. What do I want to point out about this? So, because of someone who is a member of the school board and a council member in local self-government, he has a problem at the bar, but, for example, he is not in Belgrade, because the school boards are appointed by the City Assembly. When Mr. Petrovic presented the problem, I listened very carefully, I felt that there was often a problem in Belgrade that I was living with in Novi Sad. That's funny, one of my colleagues used to say this. Maybe one day a warrant comes in and we all have to come to work tomorrow. The fact that there are no tram tracks and trams in Novi Sad, doesn't matter, says - do them. In fact, we can expect them to say – make them. So, the law we are talking about in the wake of the election of a member for the High Council of Justice is a completely lost distinction that the boards for school committees in Belgrade and the province differs in the way of proposing and choosing. The Law on Local Elections says the committee member cannot be in a post appointed by the municipal assembly. It is our view that no one can be in office in an organ that appoints and controls another body in which he is a member, because it is clear that it is a conflict of interest. Or it brings, for example, the regulations that the other one applies. That's about the Agency's position, that's the position on this case on the Agency's website. In connection with this, the President's proposed seven instructions, imagine now analogy, and attitudes, because as no one knows who should, here's an example but to know who should, that this should be done by the Committee, who is already doing so. In an attempt to take the executive power itself to decide on the choice of each candidate individually and to take the role of choosing each man in the image and opportunity of his own idea and to think that tomorrow he will decide, start acting as well as those who run the regulatory bodies, and you are trying to introduce order and the oldest institutions, and among them is the proposal of this member for the VSS, which is the Faculty of Law in Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43194	22 minutes and 19 seconds of MP time were used. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, and before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43195	Here, I'm just going to use a few more minutes, since the others aren't interested in talking about this subject, to say that Professor Predrag Dimitrijevic, born on September 9, 1959 in Nis, because I really promised to tell the candidate what it was about, who finally got most, six out of ten of those who voted and really deserves someone to read, because there's no official proposal, something about this man from his biography. During his studies at law school, he was awarded the Charters of the University of Nis for the success of his studies. He was awarded as the best student of school 1982/83. A year, with an average score of 9.87. I'm really proud that a man like this can get a post in the VSS, and I know some who have graduated from college with this average, showed exceptional work results, so because of their mobbing and threatened health, they had to quit their jobs. Since 1984, Mr Dimitrijevic has been working as an expert associate on legal issues at the University of Nis. A doctoral dissertation titled "Responsibility of the Indemnity Administration", with special reference to the silence of the administration, defended it with excellent grades at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade. Mrs. Komic, I think that man would probably know nicely to explain that he cannot be silenced by the administration, like when Mr. Djelic refuses to ask me a question in that question day, and you understand that by doing nothing, so he doesn't give me the right to explain my parliamentary question, so we'll ask an expert from that area first handsomely, and when I need some advice from the physics field, I'll be happy to address you. Here, I ask Mr Dimitrijevic to explain to him, when we congratulate him on his choice, especially you, that the administration has a responsibility for inaction, under which means the silence of the administration as the primary responsibility of the administration when it does not give an answer to the asked question. Doesn't the termology itself tell you that I'm right? In the course of his professional career, in addition to his regular work obligations in teaching and working on his scientific and professional training, Dr Dimitrijevic was also involved in the work of professional bodies and bodies in and outside the university. He was a member of the draft committee of the Faculty of Law in Nis, director of the Computer Information Centre at the Faculty of Law in Nis, his participation in the "Serbian Civilism" seminar at the Faculty of Law in Nis was observed, and I single out only some important parts. In the organisation of the INVENT International Organisation from Berlin, Germany, he attended an intensive seminar on local economic development promotions, participated in many international projects organised by the American Congress for Political Sciences, etc. He is a member of the Law Theory Group at SANU, the Legal Information Society and the Association for Legal Theory. He taught from 1996 to 1999 from the administrative law case at the Faculty of Law in Pristina, which is a particular reason why I am proud to point out this man, because I am personally proud of the completed Faculty of Economics in Pristina. Because some people say -- if you're not done in Belgrade, your college isn't worth it, and I always say -- it's more important what you learned than where you learned, as some college people only bring diplomas, some knowledge, but if they don't bring home the basics, they throw away everything else. That, unfortunately, is forgotten today. Since 1996, he has been teaching in the administrative law of the Faculty of Law at the Palace in Republika Srpska, and in 2002 he was elected as an emergency professor and as a regular professor for the narrow public field of science in 2007 at the Faculty of Law, etc. In March 2001, he was appointed a member of the State Administration Council of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as the government's professional advisory body, where he served as chairman of the Commission for the Reform of Administrative Law, transferring his theoretical knowledge in the adoption of laws in the field of state administration. The function produced for finance at the Faculty of Law in Nis took place between 2002 and 2004. On 14 May 2010, he was elected Dean of the Faculty of Law, University of Nis. I hope that in the day of voting you won't take him for the evil that, not by his will, I have read his biography and promoted this member as a candidate for a VSS member, because I hope that the time when the opposition considered himself second-class people in this country has passed, and you can go ahead and deny me.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43196	Six minutes have been used by the deputy president of the parliamentary group. I'm concluding the search on the proposal for a candidate to elect a member of the VSS from the law school's class. After we've done a search, the National Assembly will decide in voting day on a proposal for a candidate VSS member from the law school professor's office. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE TRADE LAW (specificity) pursuant to Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Mrs Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, has called for the hearing in particular on the second item of the agenda – the proposal for a law on trade, in addition to the representatives of the promoter Slobodan Milosavljevic, the Minister of Trade and Services, to invite the sittings to attend: Ljiljana Stankovic, Dusan Protic and Nebojsa Lazarevic, as well as Stipe Lovret, special adviser to the minister. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Marković, Nikola Lazić, Dragan Stevanovic, Zoran Krasic, Milorad Buha, Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antić, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladović, Borisa Peljević, Mileta Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Djotić, Lidijan Jeremic, Nenad Popović, Arsen Djurić, Mladen Grujić, Dejan Mirović, Dejan Mirović, Nikola Žirić, Nikola Žirić and Jokrić, Jorštajić. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Before we move on to a review of the draft law in particular, I remind you that the Legislative Committee is, on the basis of Article 148(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, rejected as incomplete the following amendments: to Article 2 submitted jointly by the MPs Nenad Popović and Arsen Djuric; to the 18th, who were jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Popović and Arsen Djuric and to Article 68, with a correction, which was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. In accordance with Article 148(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, rejected amendments cannot be discussed and are not voted on. I would also like to remind you that a group of 21 MPs from the Prosperity Group of Serbia has withdrawn the amendment to Article 41 in writing. It's a bill of law. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, and pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Before I read the amendment to Article 1, I remind the National Assembly that representatives of the 2nd item of the agenda are authorised, MP Sinisa Stamenković - PUBS MP, MP Zoran Ostojić - MP group LDP, MP Zoran Kasalović - MP group SPS – JS, MP Donka Banović - MP of the DSS – Vojislav Kostunica and MP Dragan Stevanović - SRS parliamentary group. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43197	On behalf of the DSS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1(2). The view reads: "trade is done under conditions and in a way regulated by this law and other regulations governing the transport of goods and services, as well as good business practices and business morality." We felt that it was necessary after the words "The trade is done under conditions and in a way regulated by new law and other regulations governing the transport of goods and services" to delete this part of that section relating to good business practices and business morality. In an explanation for why you did not accept the amendment, you wrote that the amendment was not accepted for reasons that would unnecessaryly narrow down the provisions of this law. Of course, the idea of the DSS was not to narrow down the law's reach, but to specify what you want to arrange. The law, as it is given before the MPs, is indeed full of terrible inaccuracies, of vague formulations, of ambiguous expressions, and when one law is such, it always leads to disagreements and later problems. These subsequent problems are mostly related to the trader-market inspection. That's exactly what the merchants were complaining about. Like us, I think you've been written by various associations that say, here's just one example of these inaccuracies, and you here have a lot of these things. Let's say "seeingly pointed out." What does that mean? For a time there was a hit inspection in a big city that visited small shops and shops with a small window and punished entrepreneurs because their name was poorly visible, according to the inspector's assessment. So we're talking subjective assessment. So is your subjective assessment here when it comes to good business practices and business morality. Good business practices for you, Mr. Minister, may mean something quite different from what they mean to me or what they mean to every MP in this room, and those who need to be covered by this law are interpreting this differently. You see, in a simple term, there are so many different interpretations. I don't quite understand why you in this way introduce such inaccuracies. I don't understand if it's necessary for the law to be imprecise, was your intention to make it imprecise? If you refuse the amendment or change this in a way that makes it clear to everyone what it means or deletes it, then you're asking that your law be imprecise. As you wrote it, this is an expression that is appropriate if you write a pamphlet or if you're a student and you write some literary work, but it's not if it's in the law. What is in the law must be extremely precise and cannot depend on the subjective interpretation of anyone. That when a subjectively interprets an inspector, when he subjectively interprets a minister, a civil servant, a merchant, then he just has problems. That's why I think our amendment should have been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43198	A minute and 20 seconds have been used by the MP's group. The word is by MP Vlatko Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43199	Just for a little while on the amendment. Fellow Members and colleagues, good business practices, business morality is not an inaccurate formulation, it is a legal standard that exists in many other positive regulations of the Republic of Serbia, in the Business Society Act and many other laws. Therefore, trade as a matter of activity, as provided for in Article 1. The bill must be regulated and guided under this law, other regulations governing the transport of goods and services, but also on the basis of good business practices and business morality. It's not a formulation that will allow some different interpretations. So when courts decide in business disputes, they also apply rules of business morality and good business practices. It is a legal standard that exists in the right of EU countries, which also exists in the positive right of the Republic of Serbia, and I therefore do not think that this amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43200	A minute and 20 seconds have been used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? If not, MP Zoran Krasic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. The government has accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The government has accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic and Nikola Lazic together submitted to the title above Articles 7 and 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43201	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. This is an amendment to Article 7, and Article 7 is within the scope of Chapter II. This head bears the title – Trade principles – and is somewhat attached to the discussion of Article 1, which we also had the amendment about. In fact, even when we discussed the principle of this law, I think that all the MPs who spoke about this new Trade Law said that it was really necessary in Serbia to pass a new law on trade and that now the applicable law was over 17 years old, and that it was perhaps one of the few system laws that had not experienced some changes and additions in those 17 years, so that you have a reality or practice that was significantly different from the law that was 17 years old. 17 years ago, they weren't even familiar with some forms of trade. The need to pass a new law is absolutely clear and we from the DSS also support the adoption of a new law, but not any law. My colleague spoke about the fact that there are many declarative places in the law, where practically the proposer in those particular members said that he would like the trade to look. Why declare it? Here, a colleague replicated the amendment to Article 1, where he says that business morality is something that is known, that it is a European practice etc., but I found nowhere exactly where it is stated or whether there is a law on business morality. It's something quite inaccurate and unclear and not only that every trader can interpret what it is business, moral or immoral, but every person and every customer, therefore, everyone who participates in the market. This amendment applies to Article 7 and this article bears the title of the Principle of Honesty. By the way, these principles look like a list of good wishes. Yes, it would be very nice if there was a principle of honesty in the area of trade. In practice, it's not like that. A colleague calls for EU practice and that it is a European standard. I took a look at the laws of the states in the environment. However, they are not members of the EU, however, especially one country that already has candidate status and plans to become an EU member in a few years, there are no such inaccuracies in their laws, but everything is clear. Therefore, the principle of honesty is, as you have suggested, that traders are obliged to act fairly in the competition, in a way that is not aimed at harming other traders or customers, as well as at public interest, and in line with business morality and good business practices. It would be wonderful and wonderful, I think the desire of everyone since there's been a store that traders are fair and that the game is fair. So this is a really nice wish, but it's just a nice wish. I stress that in other laws of other countries, when it comes to the law on trade, there are no such principles, perhaps in a strategy or in certain visions, but not in laws that should be very precise. We suggest erasing this principle. The fact that this is also a declarative indication that they are not in criminal provisions, which are located somewhere near the end of the law, is not stated anywhere that the trader will be punished or distracted by the fact that he is unfair and participates in the creation of an unfair competition. Yes, it says there in one article if someone is the victim of an unfair competition that can claim compensation in court, but it's already a different procedure. I understand that because any lawsuit would be different from the one before. However, the legislator, if he had already seriously considered that all those involved in the competition had to adhere to these principles, including the principles of honesty, he could have anticipated some kind of sanctions in case the trader did not adhere to the principle of honesty and when the trader is unfair. I can use the word unfairly because you say they're obliged to act honestly. The only way to ensure that good ambience and fair competition are created, contrary to the unfair competition, is that our laws are good, that they are accurate. The next step is for all those who participate to uphold the law, and if they do not abide by it, to have an effective and good inspection and supervision and after that punishment. It's the only way to secure a fair match, not by listing some principles. Those principles sound wonderful, that would be wonderful, but I've been repeating since the world and the century, unfortunately, there are those in that area who are not fair.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43202	Four minutes and 25 seconds of the authorized representative's time have been used. The 8th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. He wants a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43203	On behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 8, but before I say anything, I need to read the bill. In Article 8, the Proposer suggests the following: "Traffickers are obliged in an appropriate manner and in accordance with their capabilities to provide conditions for maintaining the stability and supply of the market, especially with regard to goods and services of existential importance to the population". From the point of view of the SRS, we have assessed that this Member should be corrected, that principle, the principle of stability and the supply of the market, so we have suggested that the words "and according to their capabilities" be deleted with an adequate explanation. I'm not going to read the argument now, given that the amendment has been adopted, but on this principle we need to look a little wider and all the principles that you've provided for in this bill are considered a list of good wishes, they're general, they're unarranged, they're very narrow, they're without sanctions, they have no legal essence, they don't have legal depth, and as such they won't be in office. To stay on Article 8, on the formulation you listed here. It says – to provide conditions for maintaining stability and market supply. What market? What does it mean to create conditions? What are the conditions? What does the stability of the market mean? Are you at national level? Is it regional? Are you in town? Is it local self-government, etc? These formulations were interesting during the period of socialism, when we had principles like this and when they were brought to life. In what way? In the operational and organisational sense, we had social companies that had their own organisational units in every village, even in small local communities by several objects. It was taken into account that in each of these facilities there was a sufficient number of products to meet the most essential needs of the population, citizens. Can we get that to the dealer today? We can't. You didn't see it coming here. Because if you were going to go more seriously into this principle, then you should also prescribe conditions for a trader who must satisfy, further, clearly define the products, the volume of these products, even the prices. But you didn't do it. So this is overwritten, this isn't designed enough. The principle, as such, is a dead letter on paper. If you were serious about making any of that principle, you would have anticipated sanctions. Sir, think of the merchant, you haven't met the conditions that we've prescribed for you, you haven't supplied your shops, your sales facilities to all the necessary products that we've prescribed, which represent an existential minimum, therefore you answer by a member of that and you punish yourself with the fine and that, based on the application submitted by the competent inspector. We don't have it all here. This is an empty normative-legal formulation that doesn't make sense and thinking about whether to delete it completely, it has its legal essence, material essence and commercial essence, and then we have defined that we are still going to innovate this article with this formulation, with erasure, etc., to get some essence, but still it's a dead letter on paper.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43204	Two minutes and 20 seconds. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43205	Mr. Buha, like all the other MPs who have submitted the amendments, I am taking the opportunity to thank you for your interventions. Some of them we respected. This particular amendment has been accepted, but now that I'm listening to you, I have a dilemma about whether we should have accepted it. I have the impression that you are closely interpreting the law and the members of the laws to which you have submitted the amendment. If you have a dilemma on which market this formulation applies, then you have not read the whole of the law, because in Article 6 of the law, it means to the member before you have submitted the amendment that has been accepted, it stands – the market of the Republic of Serbia is unique and comprehensive. It continues to refer to the single and comprehensive market of the Republic of Serbia, so there is no need in each member to mention that the importance of the market refers to that market. The need for the market to be supplied, to be stable, is something that is understood, and the general story of both Mrs. Banovic and you about principles is otherwise general. They can't be the subject of sanctioning and punishing, they need to help understand the essence of the law, and that one area, which is an integral part of the life of all, such as trade, and in some, let's say, moral codes that have been in force since the world and the century are installed and connected to them. When we talk about it, it's ideal to have an honest merchant. If you take the Bible, open it, and read it there, saying after Job, I don’t know the exact specifics more precisely, the Bible says — rather the camel will pass through the needle’s ears than the merchant will go to heaven. This means that there is no ideally honest merchant, as there is no ideally honest businessman. Everyone's trying to make a little profit for themselves at the store, and some little profit for someone is a little loss for someone else. So the principles just serve to understand the essence of the law, and one who is considered to be damaged has the possibility in some case to exercise his rights in some court proceedings by proving that in some case, he is specifically damaged.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43206	In my system, MP Miodrag Stoilovic was reported to me. Is that a mistake? Okay. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Nikola Lazic put together the title above Article 10th and Article 10th of the amendment. The word is Mrs. Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43207	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first I'd like to read what we wrote the amendment on, that's Article 10, the title above it is the principle of co-operation. Article 10 reads: 'In market surveillance matters, all competent state authorities and public authorities are obliged to cooperate with each other. ''It's interesting that we got the exact same answer which is why we don't accept this amendment as in other cases. So you have type answers to the non-type amendments, and then you say - the amendment is not accepted for reasons that you would needlessly narrow down the provisions of this law. I really don't see the connection between these two things, especially you say – in relation to the coordination of market surveillance matters, which, of course, does not stand. What we've responded to, it's actually what we've pointed out many times so far, it sounds wonderful, it's very declarative, and it doesn't oblige anyone. When you say – in market surveillance transactions, all competent public authorities and public authorities are obliged to cooperate with each other. If you hadn't written this in this way, it would have sounded really funny. Is it possible that you are using this law to invite public authorities to cooperate? That's totally ridiculous, unnecessary and ironic. This is clear that they should and must cooperate. The other laws that have been passed here invite them to do so. Is it possible to think that if there is no such principle, which I have to replicate to my colleagues, Ratkovic, who has said something about these principles, we also have a way to read parallel laws from the environment, even those that are much closer to the EU, for which the EU says, we will receive you to you. They didn't write the principles. They're nowhere in any other environmental laws. They probably also prefer to go to the EU, like you, a colleague. I believe and many experts in this area have said that the principle was not necessarily introduced here. When you brought them in, you had to say what would happen if they didn't cooperate. You know what, my deep conviction is that as it's written, it's supposed to mean something completely different. This is about you being in laws, which you've brought so fast that the Assembly couldn't speak of them for a long time, or to commit itself to each member individually, actually trying to resolve something that you've done by noticing in multiple laws. It's that it's come down to the fact that various state authorities have the exact same powers, so you've mixed their jurisdiction, so you don't know who's responsible for what, and then that's the problem. Take the laws in the area of agriculture. Take their agricultural inspection, take a veterinary inspection, take a market inspection, take a municipal inspection, take a sanitary inspection and take a look at their jurisdiction. You won't know who's in charge of something you've prescribed here. It was supposed to be administratively resolved by what you said was the principle of co-operation. Look, because we're going to be crossing these days, I mean today or tomorrow, the Traffic Safety Act. The exact same authority is given to the municipal police as the police. Let's see what happens then. I invite you, look how some others did it around you. You didn't make up the law, of course, nor do I assume that the law is infallible and that you are infallible. Look at what this looks like in some other cases, so you can just regulate it. Speaking of some business morality that's ideal. The idea is many things in many laws and not just in laws, and in art is the ideal thing to argue about. But we're simply talking about a specific situation in which this country is, we're not talking about an ideal. We are talking about Serbia today really being the scene of everything and everything. For example, you as a minister certainly know that lead-based makeup is imported. Nobody's talking about it until something in the media shows up. Then women try to find out what they're buying. Then you have an example of a wonderful business morality, that some of our stores import Hipo children's food that is on the verge of a term of duration or has just passed, as well as many other things you will find in our shops. So let's not talk about ideals. Let's talk about the real situation where our country, the real situation where citizens live and buy in shops, markets and similar facilities. So let's see how we regulate it. We'll talk about ideals some other time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43208	Thank you. Three minutes of Parliament time. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43209	I'll use the time of the authorised representative, Mr. Novakovic. I would briefly like to comment, Mr. Secretary, on this article 10. The law and what you said, and what my fellow MPs said. Taking into account the practice, what is happening on the market, then the conclusion is that these principles that are insisted here in several initial members of the law actually stemmed from the need to create a new modern format of law writing. These principles did not exist in the laws that you have delegated by this law. When you look at the Trade Act, which will, of course, be out of force after the adoption of this law, you have a Article 3 that says – the trader deals freely, on equal terms on the single market, in accordance with good business practices etc. Then, Article 11, which speaks of what is a distortion of competition, and Article 22, which speaks of what unfair competition is, etc. Therefore, all this has been present in the legislation so far. But the question arises how respected he is. The question arises, as regards this Article 10, which speaks of the obligations of the state authorities to co-operate in market surveillance procedures, as far as they were willing to comply with the principles, or whatever it was called in the current normative acts or regulations. This congregation in front of you, who knows how many times I've opened one topic and pointed through that story in one small community, to the absolute weakness of state and state bodies. I was talking about two solutions from your ministry, which one public firm is required to return prices, they're not going to do that, they're sending another ministry from your ministry, from the other one to the third, from the third one to the first ministry, that's how we've been sent back to you for a year in a circle. The damage has already entered over 10, 15 or 20 million. The problem is with the state authorities. This problem cannot be removed from these principles, if you have no good will, you and your associates. I don't mean you specifically, but whoever sits in your seat and your chair. So what do they do based on these principles? Then we react to the judicial authorities, and the judicial authorities take it for collegiate relations and put it in a drawer, so it sits in their drawer for months. I can name and last name tell you a deputy public prosecutor who won't start the story. Because of the political, private and any other links with those responsible, the culprits of the problems your ministry has reacted to on two occasions with a solution to return prices because they were raised against the law and the citizens of the Surdulic municipality were damaged by how many millions. Now that those of us who are burned with one such experience believe the principles that the state authorities will cooperate and ask the question is that true? Is there any point in you insisting on this in law? You really have to show good faith that the principles that you offer and serve in legal papers, to which you, as state bodies, are bound, are truly ready through practice to apply them and implement them in practice. Do you know how local officials control your market inspectors? Do you know what they're doing to them? They're playing with them. You have to show by fighting such manners that you are truly defined that what you assure us and convince us really makes sense, that there is no dead letter left on paper. That's what I said in the principle debate, Mr. Minister, and you weren't there on that occasion. I'm afraid this law, because of these writings and these experiences of practice, does not experience the fate of the Law on Electronic Trade, which you said only a few months after adoption that you are not satisfied with its application and that I do not state what you are doing next in your interview or attitudes regarding the public. So I think these criticisms have meaning, and practice makes us react to these things that you put into law the way we react.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43210	Four minutes and 35 seconds. Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43211	We're discussing one law that contains system law, and this isn't about technical law or sector law, it's about one law that essentially codifies regulations in the area of trade. According to Serbia's legal tradition, nomotechnics and modern experiences, such laws should contain principles in their opening provisions, as is the law. If we start from logic to imply that the state authorities cooperate and are obliged to cooperate in the exercise of market surveillance, etc., then we could say that there is a principle of the single market and the principle of free trade and, following that, no principle should stand in this law. We are at the opposite point of view, i.e. we believe that this law should contain these principles and they are of general basic character and they are elaborated through later provisions. In addition, market surveillance is regulated later in a special chapter of this law. We see that the powers of the inspection bodies, therefore, and the Ministry of Market Inspectors, local self-government, are very important. We also have provisions on the Center for Trade Development and the integrated system. So there must be one principle of general character that is later developed through these provisions. We cannot accept the logic that something is meant and that it burdens the text of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43212	One minute and 45 seconds of Parliament time. Mrs. Donka Banovic and Mr. Velimir Ilic also answered the words. First Mrs. Donka.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43213	I'm using the time of my authorised representative. Mr. Ratkovic, it is true that when it comes to the laws that many things cannot be left for free interpretation and meaning. We are not talking about how everything needs to be understood, but we find it simply unusual that there is a principle in one law that all public authorities and public authorities are obliged to cooperate. That's what we think has to be understood. I guess it makes sense that all those involved in the market and the competition, and those who exercise supervision and inspection, including the Ministry, that they are obliged to cooperate and that is understood. Many legislative proposals have passed through this congregation, so we did not have members of the law who say that everyone involved in a particular business is obliged to cooperate. It is understood that they are obliged to cooperate. We had a preschool law, so we didn't write that the school board or the board of directors was obliged to cooperate with the school director, etc. I guess that's what that means. Now we had a proposal for a new Rules of Procedure, so you didn't put a member there that the Assembly was obliged to cooperate, to cooperate with citizens, with the Government, so that the working bodies of the Assembly were obliged to cooperate. If public authorities and public authorities are obliged to cooperate, this should be understood in a normal country.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43214	One minute and 40 seconds of authorized representative's time. The word has Velimir Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43215	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have come to the Assembly to work and I can see that the ruling coalition has made a huge impact. Not to mention that in one year to adopt 400 laws at once, it's fully developed one country's system, relations are completely changing, that God can't handle all of it. Look at our effect, the appointed governor, elected new governor in one day. The election of the High Council of the Judiciary and it's over, and now we're moving on to 80 amendments from the store and we're fighting a battle until we finish work tonight. It's got to end because it's burning under your feet. I don't know who's burning it. What's going on here? Imagine these three areas, which have nothing to do with each other, do in one day and make it through midnight tonight. It's important to do, to finish, to praise someone tomorrow, to turn around and say, "Look what we've done today." Mr. Minister, did you have a cow on your feet that you're in such a hurry to discuss this after six hours and get over this in a hurry, these smart amendments from the opposition that were offered? There's a lot of good amendments. It's all thrown away. I'm watching you do it on committees. I run a committee. There was a group today, brought in two amendments. Come on board until two amendments, report tomorrow, they've got another amendment. Let's do another amendment. There someone makes a deal, brings the amendment, presses, blackmails, and they say, "Let it pass, please let it pass." What does that look like? Where does this institution go, this parliament? What will this look like if it continues at this rate? After all, you socialists fight to be able to perform all functions. Your people can do anything, they're universal, and here you are fighting that one man all functions in that city, the region, the Republic, don't drop anything, hold like a terrier when you catch up and don't give up. And that's where you change the laws and don't come to the Assembly. To you, parliament is like a road stop. There's a couple of these sitting here, tearing off, taking a nap, coming around a little bit. This gentleman in the first row, I find very likable, he commends everything. He's here on duty to commend, to say how nice it is. You're still missing this one from Nis Bosko about the judiciary to talk and he's complimenting everyone, and he's completely buried the judiciary. Where are you going? I don't know what your role is here. Sit down. Is there anything for you that's wrong in this country? Is there anything you'd like to say-- people, this doesn't make any sense, this is past all the measurements? Mr. Minister, as far as the store is concerned, no one pays anyone anything at the store. Do you know that? Did you know that the store, with its payment, with its chains, with individual monopoly, has buried the entire Serbian economy? Do you know what an import lobby does, what an export lobby does? All the same people. It can't be imported, exported, etc. You here have a few sentinels who come, who receive instructions to praise everyone, attack if anyone opposes anything. They move right then, they go into the O.R., and they don't give it right away, they don't give a word to say to the government. Just guard the government and don't give it to the government. Don't give it to the last drop of blood. Serbia can fail, watch out, watch out for Simovic and this Sljvic in the King, I repeat, only the two of them will remain in the municipality, everyone else, if necessary, will take them out of the municipality, disintegrate them, remove them, but must remain and maintain power at all costs. What court? I don't know, I'd ask Mr. Bosk, he's not here, he's not coming. However, he is now busy with many functions. I don't think he knows how many functions he has anymore. As far as the judiciary is concerned, when you ask him something, he says -- people, I don't have time to breathe. He took the judiciary into his own hands, to completely destroy it. Yesterday I asked Ms. Malovic why she couldn't resign, why she'd be so embarrassed? She's sitting here in your place, she's getting confused, she's passing some law and she's ashamed of what she's bringing. I've been watching her and asking her - excuse me, why don't you resign? That's honorable, that's fair. The man resigns, gets out of the way, signs the election, so let the people choose. You see, people, there's nothing you can do. If you hadn't had this Josipovic here, walking around Belgrade these days, it couldn't have gone anywhere, what interesting thing would you have brought to this Serbia during the summer? You were making bachanals yesterday, the day before yesterday, and you did it, and that's how it ended. There's nothing new. What's in the economy? You were talking about the Sharicians, for example. Now you're not talking about them, either. Someone told you to break up, I guess, someone ordered you. What happened here, I don't know. You were so active here. How long were you around Satellite active? You said the affair would be exorcised, and when Davinic came out, he brought out the data and told him who ordered it, how and what, you shut up. Now the store can't touch anything. You like a kitten around a well. These amendments, they can't catch anything, nothing to touch and remain what's happened. So this is a shame that we are sitting in this number in this heat today, in this heat, and we are discussing, in one day about the election of governors, in the day when the dinar is disastrously bad, in its history when it has the least value compared to the euro. It's today, Minister. Is that right? Today has the smallest value in its history. We chose a new governor. No one says how much money was spent on stabilizing, no matter how long it came, no matter what happened, no matter how much money was injected into the vault, where, how, how. Guys, we've become wonderland. We're hitting bridges that haven't yet been designed by a free contract, like free hands. We're setting up a cornerstone now for something to build who knows when, maybe next year. We're setting up a cornerstone for something that wasn't designed. Maybe he'll miss that cornerstone. Were you ministers at the opening of the foundation stone? How do you know where to stab him if he hasn't been projected yet? They say the project's only been completed in three months, and you killed some stone there. You're the one who cut through the Dark One. You know, during the renovation, when he had that stone in the trunk, he took it out, put it in the trunk of the stone, and let's go on, six, twelve municipalities today, and let's go. And you're doing it now. Are you making the election? What's going on in this country? Does anyone have anything to say? Here's the prime minister coming out and publicly saying the crisis is over. He said that all citizens in the second half of the year would feel better. This is the second half of the year. You have a calendar. We've been in the second half of the year for a month. Gucha comes and goes to school, over. So this is all sad and funny. It's really pathetic and pathetic that in one day, a serious assembly is discussing the shift of the governor, asking the new governor, resolving the issue of the High Council of Justice and saying – there's no giving up until the amendments are over tonight. Prepare yourselves for the good of the messengers, and enjoy yourselves, and sit and work. So, I don't see what the rush is. Serious states change every year 10-5 laws, debates take months. Here's your friends, you keep saying you're for European Serbia, here's a look, and we're for Europe, but we're for the real Europe, not what you're talking about. Europe is discussing, for example, three months of one law of importance, and we here end it all in a moment of business. Now we've changed the Rules of Procedure, and now it's going to hit as far as you can. You go out at night, you give a lecture, you cheer up the pensioners to get 5,000 dinars, you cheer up these in the public sector – 5,000. You know what that means? It's a miracle for the state. Do you guys realize what time you're living? Do you know how many citizens are starving, can't survive, can't pay taxes, can't pay basic obligations, can't buy anything, can't be treated? The affairs of the affair are being put under the carpet. What happened to oncology? Is it or isn't it? What happened to the vaccine, Minister? You want to figure out where that vaccine is? Well, you're not in charge of anything, I don't know what you came here for today, we could have done this without you to beat up these amendments, but there's no one to come.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43216	Please, no direct dialogue. You have four minutes, or four minutes, to connect now all of this to the amendment that is on the agenda, which reads, "The title above Articles 10 and Article 10 is deleted". Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43217	Mr. Chairman, it's very difficult for me. You can wipe whatever you want, I'd rather wipe out this government, give you severance, people, here's all the dispatchers retired. Let us also dispatch you and discuss the election, let this people choose, some normal people. He doesn't have to be here or I don't know who he is, but something's gonna happen. There's no life with you anymore. This is what got us out of here. We don't know where he's going. We're in a dead end. No one pays anyone, no one pays what they do. Here, Jura came to Ratche, 900 employees, it's been waving for two months. Mr. Minister, there's no work. The corridors aren't working. It's a story. Only 80 people work on the north side of the corridor. We're talking about millions of jobs, etc. Everything's stopped, agriculture-- killed the city. Some municipalities, you heard, have two missiles. They had three missiles in the King. They were the richest. With two councilmen, they wanted to shoot, out of opposition. This whole thing ended the way it ended. There's nothing to connect here, but I'm asking you to stop this lardy at 6:00 p.m. That's enough for today. You've done a good job today, you can tell your boss later that you've had a good one. Celebrate, brother, the election of governors. Come on, make some cocktails, do something. Congratulations to the man. Don't just bring and bring here, and you don't even know what you're bringing anymore. These martyrs, when they come to vote, these days when you bring them in here, they don't know what they're voting for, they won't know what they're voting for, or what's being voted for, or what's going on. Take the work of this House seriously, Mr. Chairman. This has become a joke. Here, I can see this doesn't look like anything and it doesn't lead anywhere. Some embassies, some serious people. Did you see what the deans of law school wrote to you? It's a disgrace to read. What do people tell you from your waist? Let's not get into any more trouble, but give it a little bit, take this Parliament's work seriously, that it has its own working time and slowly. Here, you've run out of time. I don't know why you're sitting here in this scapsy, but here, thank you. I just wanted to warn you that it's gone too far. Mr. Chairman, you're a serious man. I highly appreciate and respect you, and I expect you to stop this lardy and that's enough for today. With so few MPs this important thing, this big decisions to make in one day, which is a lot, it's a lot.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43218	The time foreseen for lively exposure of the head of the New Serbia Parliament Club has expired entirely. The People's MP Srdjan Milivojevic came to the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43219	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, I didn't understand what this exposure has to do with the amendment and the existing Trade Act. I understood that there was a stone foundation for some bridge and stone foundations for some economic buildings. Well, I'm traveling a little bit around this beautiful Serbia of ours, and eight years ago, I traveled to Cachak, and where there's a track today, and then there's a pit stop, there's a happy society, twenty priests and a pretty large number of people. They laid the foundation stone for the tobacco factory, the cigarette factory. And then I was in Chakotay, and today, that cornerstone is no longer visible. That's where those horses are still chasing. There is no tobacco factory anywhere and so much about the fate of the country's cornerstone and crying over the stone foundation. As for the subject of today's agenda and the Law on Trade, we have concluded the debate on the governor. I don't think that's a topic anymore, but we didn't choose the governor today. If it's hard for someone to work after 6:00 a.m., if someone is in a hurry in Guch, to the trumpets' parliament, they should leave immediately today without being late and leave those who will and can work. I think you should work as hard as you need to, and there's a lot of work to be done in this country. Do not call on your discussion and criticism of parliament's work on countries that have long ago done this job. The countries that entered the EU by five laws adopted daily, both Hungary and Poland and the Czech Republic, and Romania and Bulgaria, in those months when they ran that race to join the EU, did not even translate the laws from English. If someone isn't in a hurry, if someone isn't, if they're going to go to sea, I don't have any problem, let them go, Parliament will work without them, but if we're talking about parliament, then let's talk about facts, not talk about voters. The facts are as follows: today we conclude discussions on all important laws, including the law on trade. This is a law that also promotes this area in RS, as the law will not read, all amendments have not yet passed and all amendments have not been discussed. But what I'm saying is, it doesn't matter how many laws this House makes, it's much more important than how these laws apply. I don't know that any law that we have passed in this House has not been applied to the RS and that it applies to someone without being subject to it. If someone wants the minister of justice's resignation for hitting the Darka Saric drug clan, it is his problem, and it is not a problem of ministerial justice, but RS will certainly hold the sword of justice firmly in its hands and drug dealers' arrests, however much it hurts and as much as it hurts to move, complain, complain, justice, law and order in this country must be respected and introduced.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43220	I would ask all of us to respect the Rules of Procedure and return to the agenda. (Velimir Ilic, from the site: Replica. You have no right to a replica. The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 21-nation MPs from the Progressive Serbia Group. The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic. Mr. Ilic, you have no right to a replica. We're done. Here you go, Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43221	Serbia's Progressive Party, the Progressive Party, has submitted an amendment to Article 11, where point 1) is requested to change and read as follows: "Employors selling their own products". This means that the disputed point 1) of Article 11. Proposal for a farmer's right to sell its products conditioned by registration and restricted only to products subject to registration. We feel that such a restriction is simply not acceptable, because it simply makes it impossible for a large majority of farmers to sell their own agricultural products, and that which they produce in their gardens, orchards, and it is time for someone to register to be a problem, and the source of income for survival is what you produce in your own garden. A significant number of farmers are not registered for a variety of formal reasons, especially those for which this is an additional profession. You know that registration is mostly done in order to exercise the right to incentives and obtain some privileged funds and that this is especially the case in agricultural culture production, such as sunflowers, corn, sugar tails, etc. This is neither a condition nor a condition for what is produced in the garden or in the orchard, nor should it be. You are in the argument that you reject this amendment and have written that it is "contradictive to the concept of the bill regarding the subjects having the property of the trader. "You say that "the registration of farmers or family agricultural holdings and their members, in accordance with the Agriculture Act, is not exclusively carried out in relation to the creation of conditions for the exercise of the right to incentives" - means that we are wrong when we say that this is primarily because of incentives and regressions and is done, but because of this now listen to this – "the monitoring of agricultural policy, the recording of agricultural land and family agricultural land, as well as for the management of statistics and analysts in this area. "And where is the interest of these petty unregistered that what they produce, beyond what they need, and sell and earn for themselves, and these are not enormous profits? So, you don't argue that you don't think about them here, but that you take care of your interests, which are mostly records and statistical policies. The registration of farmers in the register is not mandatory, but within the meaning of Article 11(1), point (1) is a condition for the participation in the transport of agricultural products as traders, when these products are intended for the market, and not only for the needs of the household. You give us the right, explaining our amendment, that the very categories that little over their needs produce, should be excluded because they are not traders. We have also stated that it is a category of people who are most often of the supplemental profession. I really don't see that this kind of release and exemption will put you at risk of implementing a policy in the field of agriculture and will, to some extent, destroy your statistics and records on that. Because if we have untrustworthy statistics on the budget deficit, foreign debts, where the IMF says the debt has reached 80% of GDP, and the government claims 34, not to take into account the debts of the economy and citizens, they are the debts of this state, because they participate in creating GDP and the sovereignisation of that debt will sooner or later have to be executed. So if in key areas of economic life we can't rely on statistics, is it important here to have the most accurate statistics and embrace what's being sold, you know, in front of a market or somewhere at a crossroads in a smaller village, and I really don't think that's the reason to refuse this amendment. Please reconsider your arguments.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43222	Three minutes of MP time was used. The word is Mr. Milosavljevic, so Mr. Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43223	Dear Mrs Tabakovic, we understand the intensity of your amendment and the desire to allow everyone, not just registered farmers, to sell their products, however much of these products. However, a few things here are very important. First, registration is free, free, voluntary. Anyone who deals with agriculture can register and enter that category every year. Whenever he decides to produce for the market and to have an surplus, he can also gain the property of a trader and this law does not prohibit it now, nor will it do so in the future. The second thing, very important, is the safety of agricultural and food products, that is, the need for us to follow from the field to our dining rooms, kitchens, etc., the quality of these foods. The fact that someone is in the system, that through the Ministry of Agriculture for example, purchased fertilizer, fuel, seed material, for which the delivery and the fiscal account, gets an incentive from the state, and is in some way a guarantee that one part of the input sizes, or input in production, are somehow controlled. This guarantees greater safety and greater quality of products that we all use. The third thing, you mentioned something that, as an economist who has long been engaged in both the market and the economy, should not come out of your mouth, and it concerns small farmers who, for example, are outside. the supermarket or some other sales facilities sell their agricultural products, whether they are green salad, potatoes or not, which agricultural product. This in some ways disrupts what those who have seriously invested, did, provided, bought legally. Now imagine the situation for a big supermarket to come in front of some grandmother, blanket or already someone, to bring out their salad, eggs or cheese, all day long standing at a high temperature of 30 degrees and some degree, and the price is probably something lower, and all that is legal, originating, safe, correct, is in that supermarket. Simply, the time of such a trade is for us and those who want to deal with production or serious or small market surpluses, whenever they decide to enter the system, register and sell their products legally, in accordance with both this and other laws. That possibility to sell farmers of agricultural products, if it were the way you suggest it could be misused, so, for example, farmers sell in front of self-service oranges, bananas, is that they're food products, which is something that's also out of line with this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43224	Before I give my word, just one piece of information to avoid yesterday's confusion. We'll be on direct TV by 7:30, same as yesterday. Now first Mr. Ilic, then Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43225	I want to take advantage of the party time we have - 10 minutes. Mr. Chairman, you violated the Rules of Procedure, you gave Mr. Milivojevic the word to replicate, and there was no basis at all, it was not the subject of my discussion. He always replicates when he's supposed to defend himself, he's one of those pillars of the government's last defense. I want to explain some things to you. First, I support Mrs Tabakovic's amendment. Secondly, Mr. Milivojevic has brought forth a series of lies and should have given me a word for the replica, and now I'm using a party time belonging to the NS, for the simple reason that no one can spit here and bring forth lies and lies. It is true that we wanted to build a tobacco factory and that we got all the papers and permits signed by the late Djindjic, and Vlahovic as the then minister, and it is true that Dinkic promised some others that in Senta he would give them the factory, so he conditioned that government, and it is true that they did not know how to end our investment in order to do with "Philip Morris" and other jobs they agreed on on on big ones. They wrote one argument, like the government I'm still guarding. They are for the factory with both hands, the whole government, but there is one problem – there are no five megawatts of electricity in the area and they will not be in the next I don't know how many years. They suggest investors to resolve the issue of electricity supply, that is to say that they have a coal site, that they create a retail thermal power plant, to build a factory. That's ridiculous.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43226	Mr. Ilic, I apologize, I have no doubt that this factory story has its end, but I ask you to stick to the Rules of Procedure together. You're right when you say they don't come out here, and it's not nice, and it's forbidden to tell the truth. So, I haven't given Mr. Milivojevic any right to the replica, and I'm trying to get you back on the subject. So far there is one sentence, which is – we support Mrs Tabaković's amendment. Please explain it or I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43227	Please, you have to accept something. You made a mistake and you broke the Rules of Procedure. You gave the word to the messenger who insulted him, and you brought forth a series of lies. He said that yesterday we passed laws that were strong in application. That's not true. We adopted amendments to the anti-corruption law yesterday, which should be applied.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43228	Thank you. Obviously, we didn't understand each other. You'll have a chance to talk about the subject in the future. The word is Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43229	Mr. Minister, I appreciate your wish, and I can only understand it in one way, that everything that is done in this country should be introduced into legal flows. I will support the intention of solving the problem of the black market, the gray market in all other areas, except for the one I'm talking about. Small agricultural production of fruits and vegetables in their own land. Oranges and bananas, don't mind, they don't work in our backyards. You took that as an example, and I don't want to get caught. Is the correctness of a product of someone who in that household isn't very proud to come out so he has to spend some time on the street to sell what little he's produced, does a guy with such material opportunities have the ability to buy any fertilizer at all or, God forbid, genetically modified seed goods to endanger me or you? When someone is poisoned by the eggs or milk that someone has brought to his house or there, it is traded with people who are mostly familiar. Each of us knows these peasants who squat in front of the Maxi market in Novi Sad, who I know, or sometimes in my Ulpians in Pristina where I lived. I'm not talking about those categories that can be registered, or those categories of goods. I have to admit to you that, as someone who loses his sight for years and wears glasses and reads very carefully the deadlines of production, I was in a position to buy a beautiful label in large, sound and legal markets and only after using the food product I notice that the product of the expired duration has been given a new label, and where I, where there are small children in the environment, sold a product that can be a source of very health-threatening health, as a health failure. It's probably an exception, but why is there a general doubt that someone is going to sell me broken, and there's no doubt that legally at the market I'm going to buy a worm cheese that isn't well stored and guarded? So that's not the reason, it's not the amount that can't be controlled, it's not the type of product that can be questioned to some extent by the implementation of your agricultural policy. You say registration is free and free. I'd be happy to quote Professor. "Dear Rabbit, who says this, "I enter into the community and say good day, and they say, "can't. "When registration and completion of business is done in this way, regardless of what is a funny illustration of the difficulty of addressing bureaucracy, believe me that many times it is true and that whoever has to go to bathe, to swim, because there is no machine, and whoever does not use fertilizer, but weeds, there is no time to go and sit and wait, and it is not free. You know everything someone needs to sign and issue as a confirmation, even if you have the right to do so, I don't know how much it all costs. Now because of that other story that is intertwined through any law, which is that we have twisted the values of many upside down, so that the smallest corruption begins right there – come tomorrow, not today, I leave, today is late, this one takes the child to the doctor, the man loses his will. Admit to me yourself how many times you've been in a situation not to exercise any of your rights, even though you're a minister, just because you had to go to a few counters? I am, not because I'm lazy, but because these administrative procedures and that disrespect of the other counter made it impossible for me to achieve my right, because I had other and more important jobs to do. I'm really asking you, on behalf of those aunts and grandmothers we know and people to whom it means a lot, I'm not asking for those who sell smuggled textiles on the charts, I'm not asking for those who miss the borders to bring smuggled goods in buses, in secret boxing, I'm asking for those that each of us knows, and you're the one who knows you to find a way to distinguish the merchant from the one who sells the goods produced in his orchard or garden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43230	Four minutes and 50 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43231	I really understand the intensity, but it's not a word here, and I don't doubt those grandparents' intention to sell us a quality product. It can be about ignorance, it can be sprayed, it can treat peaches with chemical means or some other product, it can bring them out in front of that supermarket in Novi Sad, Pristina, Belgrade and that, without intent, we take something that can be harmful to our health. I agree, it's also happening in trading facilities that are legal, but when something like that happens, you know where you bought it. Besides you or me or anyone here in the O.R. who knows who he buys from and random people and buys from, so it happens, God forbid, they buy from, they don't know where there's some infection, health problems, etc. That is the key reason why this amendment cannot be accepted. I fully understand and humanely support those people you support, and on the other hand, every year several hundred thousand farmers are registered. You have those who enter the system and try to do the best they can, to take advantage of the state's subsidies, to come to the opportunity tomorrow for these registered orchards, vineyards, cereal fields to receive EU subsidies and they must be the basis for future Serbian agriculture. How to explain to the 300-400 000 owners who are registered annually that those other non-registered have the same right to sell their products and, conditionally speaking, to deal with trade, and then there is an inequality of market participants, and you will agree that one of the basic postulates of the modern market economy that the laws and rules of the game are equal for all. I understand the intensity, but these are the reasons why this amendment cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43232	The word has a folk MP, a graduate agricultural engineer, agronomist, Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic, on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43233	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, but above all respected citizens of Serbia, for the sake of truth, I have used, as I have now, the time of the parliamentary group that is at my disposal to talk about amendments that are on the agenda. Now I'd also like to talk about that amendment. I understand that Serbian citizens may have a problem registering agricultural land and I understand that in some cases in some municipalities, this right to register agricultural land cannot be achieved quickly and efficiently, but I cannot accept the fact that no one has registered that agricultural land because of bureaucratic procedures, because I do not say that, statistics say. If we look at the number of registered holdings in Serbia, it is the best indicator whether you can enter a municipality, register or not. I don't like to bid, but you can see how many tens of thousands of registered agricultural holdings there are only in central Serbia and Pomorava, where I come from. I don't want to talk to the cornerstones any further, there were stone foundations not only for the tobacco factory but also for the clinics, there were cornerstones for the King's toilet at the train station. I would like to talk about what is on the agenda and what is my profession, so as a graduate agricultural engineer, I believe that the arguments presented by Mr Milosavljevic are in the explanation, why these amendments are not acceptable, quite clear and quite accurate and there is no need to repeat what we have all heard from Mr Milosavljevic, who is a minister of trade, and not a health minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43234	Thank you, Mr. Milivoevich. Mr. Arsic and Mrs. Tabakovic also reported. Mrs. Tabakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43235	Mr. Chairman, member 104 has been injured. I don't want you to disrespect the MPs anymore, when you allow a gentleman who can replicate and speak what comes to his mind, and you close it afterwards, you don't give a word. I warn you and beg you as a serious man, I said, who is chairing this House, that you must either not allow anyone to open questions, open replicas, and open some problems and some questions, and if you please, you must give a replica. So, what Mr. Milivojevic is doing, no one is doing this. Who is he in this country? Who is he in this House that can come in and tell him what his will is and that no one can replicate it to him? He's not so important that we pay attention to him, but these insults he gives, and then he comes in the hallway and pulls me by the sleeve and begs me – I'm sorry, bro, you know this, you know... (President: Compare dictionary. I just want to tell him - shame on you and shame on you, who are you representing?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43236	So there are no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. If anyone insults him here and tries, it's you, Mr. Ilic. Thank you. I assume you're satisfied with the explanation I intended to give. The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic, so Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43237	I'm going to have to answer a specific question for a very short time. You said how to explain to registered agricultural holdings that those who are not registered, and I say, they are the ones who sell from their gardens and orchards small surpluses, that difference in access to the state. Explain to them exactly the state's relationship to the taxpayers and the different attitudes towards those who settle and those who do not comply with the tax obligations. On several occasions, the state has shown that it appreciates tax indiscipline, so that those who owe tax write off part of it, allowing the rest to be paid off to wars. Yesterday we had a bill here on tax administration, amendments and additions, where only the application of one who did not settle the tax obligation is treated so that he pays taxes to the state, and will not be treated by law before the criminal authorities, or the court. So, exactly the state is showing how they can treat different people, and not those who are good and pay taxes, but they're just being kind to those who don't pay or lose taxes, but if they're willing to pay something, they'll all be forgiven. You know that registration obligations are for those who have land, even a few acres. Do these agricultural producers exercise the right to a farm pension? How long does it take them to pay so they can get that right? Don't, please, let's move on to this story. There's a way for different treatment of this small circle of people for a small circle of products precisely defined, we know where it works. I'm really not going to show up anymore, but there are no arguments that can be rejected, because this does not pose a significant threat to tax policy or agricultural policy, and it means a lot to those who survive in this way. And it's not dramatic. A lot of people survive like this. Some survive selling only flowers in front of the market. You have to admit that you felt very uncomfortable when suddenly these people start to feel like the weather's moving. You think there's a storm coming, and it's going to be the inspectors. How's it going? How can anyone know how to handle it and make a promise? Don't, please, this won't save the government's register and budget, nor will it violate your ministry's reputation, and it will really mean keeping someone alive naked.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43238	Three minutes have been used by the MP's group. Mr. Veroljub Arsic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43239	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I'd still like to ask you a little attention when you use some expressions. You're saying it's okay that there's a midwife or an aunt who sells eggs, potatoes or carrots in front of some supermarket. I claim that it is much better to stand, because the basic difference between supermarkets, hypermarkets and them is that they sell their product that is exclusively made in these areas, unlike hypermarkets and supermarkets that mainly sell imported agricultural products. This story about whether or not the food is healthy, I can tell you that in most cases it's more correct than the one we buy at the hypermarket. Do you know why? Because instead of artificial fertilizer, a stable was used. Because instead of the funds against the weeds, the weeds were used. That's why she's healthier and more upright. Take care of something else. You're saying it's okay for them to be allowed, if we already have the agricultural holdings that register, is that okay with these bosses? Yes, because these don't have the right to other subsidies. They have no right to money per hectare of farmland. They do not have the right to refaction of VAT and these two factors are quite enough that no one can say that these are placed in some privileged position. Don't, when it comes to this subject, get involved more. It would be best to remain on your own account why this amendment is not accepted, and that is – for the implementation and monitoring of agricultural policy, the recording of agricultural holdings and family agricultural holdings, as well as for the conduct of statistics and analysis in this area. This is one of the reasons why this amendment is not accepted. The second is to protect importers and hypermarkets.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43240	Two minutes and 30 seconds. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I apologize, I will allow the minister to go to the MP, Jorgenka Tabakovic, just to show her something. But very briefly, please, we continue the work. Thank the MPs for understanding. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. The word has been made by Mr. Stevanovic, who I once again apologize to, the minister will be back soon.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43241	Here, using the time of the authorised representative, to comment on the amendment of counterpart Lidija Dimitrijevic and the amendment of counterpart Vladan Jeremic. Of course, above all, the amendment submitted by Mrs Lidija Dimitrijevic was more of a language character, but in the explanation offered by the government it states that the amendment is not accepted because the formulation was given in the provision of the bill more precise and linguistically correct. If we take into account your political attitude and your political view of this law as you have done, I can understand what you've put in place that what you've written is more accurate. But what Mr. Minister can't accept is that you wrote that it's more linguistically correct. For the SRS, the language is what is written as said in the Constitution, its Article 10th, and according to the Law on the Use of Language and Letters, it is that in Serbia a Serbian language is spoken and used a Cyrillic letter. In this article and in a few other members, you have entered very specific and clear words of English origin, not only in Serbian, or in the Cyrillic letter, but you have written them in the original in English, grammar or spelling in English and in the Latin letter. You can't say that your solution is linguistically correct. That's not true, but we can assume that by you, from your political profile and angle, it's more politically accurate. For the SRS, the law in Serbia is clear in writing and in any other sense only when everyone who uses it understands it. I assure you, Minister, a third of those to whom this law applies don't understand what "cash end dogs" means, they don't understand what any of the other words you've entered into this law, and unfortunately, they'll be forced to make such a law, which you'll most of it, as you'll already provide, adopt and implement and make an effort to understand what you've written here. I think you had room to accept this amendment, because the concept in this article didn't change you, and it was more linguistically correct. Now, as far as my colleague Vladan Jeremic's amendments are concerned, I would like to ask you, and I would also ask fellow MPs to just listen to the explanation that you refused this amendment. Now listen to this. The amendment applies otherwise to the discretionary right that belongs to you in this article. Now, look at this: "the amendment is not accepted for the reason why the provision of the bill is given more comprehensively regarding the adequate level of dynamics of the legal framework for the regulation of the given area". They repeat because of you and your colleagues, watch this – "declare the provision of the bill more comprehensively regarding the adequate level of dynamics of the legal framework for the regulation of the given area". Minister, if I had read this and asked you – what does Article 15 refer to, I sincerely hope you have nothing to do with this argument, because this would really discredit what you are, in principle, representing the Ministry. This argument that we asked that the regulations of this member be brought not by the minister, but by the Government. What does this have to do with anything? With all my, as my colleague Martinovic says, humble mind, I couldn't understand, who could, admired and respected. What did we really want? You, Minister, as you said in your explanation, have delegated three laws with 150 members to 80 members of this one law, and then you have entrusted yourself as a minister in over 15 members or, I repeat, to some next minister, 33 powers. That's why we thought it would be more comprehensive that when it comes to trading formats, everything that implies sublegal acts and that regulation sublaw, you bring to the government. This is not the only law to be passed in principle and formal terms, and then everything is out of the law, or everything is entrusted to ministers, which to the Government, which, I don't know, I don't know which state authorities and then we can only guess what the Ministry and the Government are going to bring, what in these regulatory and regulatory acts are going to take into account. This way, Minister, this really spoils the picture of whoever wrote this and who's trying to introduce himself and is passing modern and serious laws that will give certain effects in application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43242	Five minutes of authorized representative time, Mr. Stevanovic. Thank you. Anyone else? No, I don't. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted the 17th amendment together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 18th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word is Mr. Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43243	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here is another similar amendment that is related to the amendment to Article 11, which has already been submitted by the MPs of the Prosperity Group, Serbia's SNS. So this is about who can do all the shopping for personal offerings. This activity is therefore carried out as a work of traveling merchants, carried out from door to door, the activity of organising special promotional sales meetings, bag stores or other transmission equipment, trade through the personal call of consumers. So, in point 3, it is said: a trade in personal offering is carried out at the right time and in a way that is not properly harassed by the person to whom the offer is directed. Then Article 4. whose erasure we have sought, agricultural food products cannot be sold by personal offering, except for special promotional gatherings in accordance with the conditions under specific rules. Mr. Minister, I completely agree with you that food products, especially in the meat industry, when it comes to a baron product or a semi-permanent product, could not be sold by personal supply. Also, I can't agree with you that just when we mentioned those grandmothers and aunts, they can't sell their goods with a personal door-to-door offer. You know, back in a few dozen years if you get up early in the morning, you go through a little bit of a bigger town, you'll see dozens of women with a bucket hanging from a bicycle driver going and passing milk. By the way, sell some eggs. You'll see how they go and carry their apples from door to door to sell, something from vegetables. I cannot understand how this and how it can be dangerous for consumers. It seems to me that there is only one goal here, which is that this concept of the regulation of trade, which you have designed, is exclusively done through large trade chains and large systems, not through trade. This law protects large chains and large systems, not small agricultural producers or traders and entrepreneurs. That's the problem with this law. Supposedly, you want to put everything under legal channels and put everything under control. There are still a few amendments, and in particular you assure us that your wish is dishonest only if we look at one member who allows the retail trade to be done on a small scale and that each of your concepts loses its meaning.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43244	One minute and 35 seconds of Parliament time. The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Grujic. There's no answer for word. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. The word is Mrs. Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43245	Mr. Secretary who's not here, I apologize for saying hello, I'm going to use the MP's time, I'm sorry, I didn't notice Mr. Secretary coming out. So my colleagues have submitted an amendment to Article 23, that member they think should be deleted. Since it's my group's time, I want to say a few things, because obviously I won't be able to get a word in any way when I answer. So during the final football championship, all the citizens of the world were practically, perhaps for the first time, able to hear the term "invulsed." These are the specific trumpets, whose task was to interfere with the opponent and thus simply influence the result. The Vuvuzelas have come to the Assembly these days. When opposition MPs talk about facts and talk about the laws they have and how they read to write amendments, then these "invasives" appear to tell us that we are not talking about our amendments or our facts, the facts we defend or attack. When we talked about it, and the DSS MPs were also talking about how laws are being passed per kilo and to a degree, and not by really discussing them in the right way, when we talked about not applying to all citizens, that some citizens are more equal than others, then we experienced being told that we are talking nonsense, that there are laws in large numbers, because that's how we have to, and we sit here while they're gone, and that these laws apply to all citizens. Here's just one example. As an MP for the opposition, I must point him out. In October 2008, the Anti-Corruption Agency Act was passed. It began to apply in January 2009. Only two MPs, a fellow sitting here today, are more equal than all other Serbian citizens, are not covered by the law. So I'm not going to count now how many MPs, a colleague of the Duke's MPs, are also breaking this same law. So, please don't, you, Mr. Chairman, let what offends the people who sit here and do something allow anyone to do anything. It's really not right. I'm sorry I may have been too harsh and overly ironic, but it really doesn't make sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43246	Two-and-a-half minutes of Parliament time was used. I certainly receive every criticism with a huge amount of reason and an attempt not to make a mistake by accident, if I see it or if it is well thought out. Thank you, but I didn't recognize myself in this contact. Thank you for that, too. Let's move on. The 25th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. The word is Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43247	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 25 and our amendment to Article 25, which the Government has rejected, the minister points out that his concern is not so sincere to our domestic market. The amendment I have filed has been rejected because it is not accepted for reasons of unnecessary restrictions on trade. I'll read about Article 25. It's a liquor sale. In Section 2, it says where the market is, where the goods are sold and the goods can be sold, so it says – the drinking sale includes selling goods especially on the counters, boxing or special sales facilities, and fresh agricultural and food products, we absolutely have nothing against, Mr. Minister, domestic labor products, they have to do something and craftsmen to do, and craft products. Explain to me, Mr. Minister, what is the other goods of broad consumption? What would you say, like looking for textiles at the market, suits at the market? What would they want at the market, say, sanitary, personal hygiene, chocolate? What's he doing in the markets? We're talking here about some interest in protecting someone who works legally, and here we allow that right out of that big-sale space, where it can be done and the retail trade can be done, and the right to trade on little means some other inputs affecting the price of the product, everyone can come in, buy that stuff and then resell it on the markets later, the goods of broad consumption. He can't compete with agricultural and food producers or craftsmen, but to buy at discount prices is the only difference he got from a fiscal cut instead of a invoice. That's the difference between that big and small store. That's the same stuff he sells at the market where there's no lease on business space. If it has its own business space, there's no cost of maintaining that business space, no workers, no tax obligations. Then how do you think that legal trader is dealing with such illegal and unfair competition that you are now allowing this law to happen? That's the problem. You switched directions a little bit. We're here to prevent someone who's produced something on their own, if it's not registered as a farmer, it can't sell, and on the other hand, to some dealer, on condition that he has some company label, we allow him to sell wherever he gets. That's the problem with this law, nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43248	It's been used for a minute and 15 seconds. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43249	Mr. Arsic, this member of the law does not only apply to green markets, but also to other markets, so-called. open market centres. Here the market is like a format of trade, not a green market for selling only fruits, vegetables and craft products.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43250	The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43251	My colleague Mr. Mirovic has submitted the amendment. We can accept the explanation. Indeed, what we insisted on is contained in Article 11 of this Law. But, Mr. Minister, I wanted to take this opportunity when it comes to this member who regulates that market format, to ask you a question. We don't think that's clear and settled here. We've overlooked this, we haven't intervened with the amendment, but it would be nice if you could give us an answer. Here you have predicted what are and what are market institutions, what all includes sales, etc. In the position of the third member, you say that the markets are legal persons registered to carry out the activities of the organisation and the drinking sale in accordance with the rules on the registration of economic operators. Our question is does this mean that every market in Serbia will have to be a legal person registered or will continue to be in public utility, since markets in a large number of local self-government and municipalities operate within public enterprises, that they will only be able to continue or will have to register as special legal entities, which means disseminating from the public utility, which means all that includes? At the same time, there is talk of rationalization. We are expected to privatise public utility companies, etc. We are interested in whether markets will be able to stay and operate within public utility companies or will they have to become special legal entities, which will add to local self-government and, of course, the public sector as a whole? In this article, that leaves doubt and question.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43252	A minute and 10 seconds of authorized representative time have been used. The 28th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Skrbic. There's no answer for word. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted the 30th amendment together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Grujic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 34th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. Mr. Djuric has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43253	Mr Chairman, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Nenad Popovic and I, on behalf of the DSS Group, have submitted an amendment to Article 34, so that Article 34, following Article 1 of this article, adds the position 2 which reads - the declaration of the analysis of the fulfilment of the conditions of the goods to be placed on the market by a competent institution, which, according to the type or specification of goods, is determined by the Ministry. Closer terms on competent institutions are prescribed by the minister by a special regulation. We believe that the proposed text of the law is incompletely defined and cannot be seen in which way the Ministry can ensure that the bonds of Article 1 of this Article provide and the atheists and the conditions that are necessary and we believe that this should be precisely defined. For this reason, we have also tabled an amendment that we have proposed to add a new position, even though the reasons for not accepting the amendments states that this is not the subject of this law, but a law governing accreditation, standardisation and technical regulations. Although this may be the subject of this other law, we believe that even in this Law on Trade it should be clearly defined and we think that this amendment will complete it with the proposed text, so I urge you to reconsider and accept this amendment. What I would also like to say is that at the beginning of the debate in particular you said that the amendment to Article 18, which Mr Nenad Popovic and I submitted, was legally and technically incorrect. We have submitted an amendment to that amendment on July 15th this year, so we have technically arranged the amendment. I don't know how the Committee of Legislatives and the Government didn't get that correction. It is time-consuming, so I will now take the opportunity to say something about this amendment in which we have suggested that Article 18, paragraph 4, be deleted. My colleagues were already talking about that attitude. This applies to the fact that agricultural food products cannot be sold by personal supply except for special promotional and sales meetings in accordance with the conditions under specific rules. We have suggested that this position of Article 18 be deleted because we believe it is necessary for agricultural producers to be able to sell goods and personal offerings. Especially in view of the fact that this law is in point 3), when it is indicated who can deal with the sale of goods, the trade in personal offering is particularly done as in point 3) – the store of the bag or other portable equipment, so-called ‘the fence’ stands in brackets. Bagging. If bagging is allowed and provided for by law, and it is not impossible for agricultural producers to sell agricultural products by personal offering, I find it extremely inappropriate. First, I think that this formulation in the law itself is inappropriate, but I think it is necessary to accept this amendment and allow agricultural producers to sell their goods and personal offerings, especially in these conditions of the severe economic crisis, especially if we know that the subsidies allocated to agricultural households are insufficient and that they operate at the limit of rentability. I think we should erase this position and accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43254	One minute and 30 hours of the MP's group. Anyone else? National MP Mladen Grujic submitted to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. No one's answering for a word. Member of the 36th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. No one's answering for a word. National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted to the 40th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. No one's answering for a word. The 40th amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Grujic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 40 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43255	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, before I move on to the reasoning of this amendment, we must say the basic things relating to Article 40. It's about the declaration as a trade order. In Article 40, the four-seat article refers to all elements which are required to be contained in the declaration. Some things are listed here as alternative, and others are essential, imperatively defined, and they must stand in the declaration. He's troubled by the aspect of the SRS, which I have expressed in this amendment, the position of the 5th of this article in the 40th, and we have requested that he be deleted. I will now read the provisions of Article 5. It says – as a country of origin within the meaning of Article 1 of this Article, the EU may be listed in accordance with the rules on the origin of goods. Why is this attitude problematic? Because the country of origin cannot be the EU. The EU is not a country in a classical sense, it does not have all the prerogatives of the state, in both legal and political terms and geographically. Why is this attitude still problematic? Because it is so written that an alternative, alternatively defined, is said to be indicated. Does this provision apply to domestic products, since domestic products also contain declarations of both country of origin and products coming from the EU and from countries outside the EU, each European product is the country of origin where it was produced? The EU is a geographical term, a market term, but cannot be a country of origin. That's why we asked for a wipe. In the light of why you refuse to say this amendment, the amendment is not accepted because it is contrary to the concept of the Law on the designation of origin of goods in the EU area, the opposite concept of the bill, as regards the designation of origin of goods in the EU area. A vague explanation, incomplete. If there is no product of origin in the EU, how is it in our declarations? You may have wanted to come out here to meet unreal desires and install, incorporate in the provisions of the Law on Trade of this provision, but also all that we could, why say – alternatively can? As a rule, the law goes to imperial provisions, seas and is built on if there is a basis. In this case, there is no basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43256	One minute and 50 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 40th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43257	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 40 by proposing that Article 40, paragraph 5, after the words "EU" should be added to the words "with the mandatory appointment of a Member State". We believe that it is not enough to indicate on the declaration that the product is from the EU, but rather to specify a specific EU member country from which the product comes. This is very important because of the product choice of customers, but also because of huge differences in product quality among the EU Member States themselves. You will agree that perhaps products from Bulgaria or Romania are not the same quality as products from Germany or France. I set that example. I think it is necessary for a concrete EU member state to stand as a country of origin. It exists as one of the product selection factors, perhaps a geographical origin or some other criterion, which is prevented by such a provision as to stand for its origin from the EU. It cannot be clearly defined from which country, or from which geographical origin the product comes. That is why I call for you to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43258	Thank you, Mr. Turkey. Members of the 41st Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 41 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. No one's answering for a word. National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 41st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43259	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can say that the government has given quite a strange explanation as a reason for refusing my amendment. He says, "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that by accepting it would create a legal void in terms of how the price is highlighted." Article 41, which is subject to the amendment, states: "The trader is obliged to point out in a clear, unquestionable, easily visible and legible manner the unit price of the goods, the service offered in retail trade, in the currency of payment traffic." I'd like the minister to explain to me whether it's in dinars, in euros, in Swiss francs, in dollars? Now it explains what the price is, but that 7th position to which my amendment refers has nothing to do with the legal gap regarding the view of price emphasis, but in just one situation that is very strange and possible only for us in Serbia. In a retail facility where retail is carried out in addition to a large store, it means, as a part of a single facility, the trader is obliged to point out in a clearly visible way the first selling, retail price, and the wholesale price for each goods he offers for sale. Mr. Minister, there's a whole problem that's emerging in our country. So now I see why goods of broad consumption can be sold on some kind of market. There are green markets, there are used goods markets, which are also called flea markets, and with markets you should stay there. There's no need for chocolates at the market, no need for detergents, no need for sanitarys, no need for textiles, unless it's a fair, so we'll sell slippers and shoes in the markets. That's the problem, that's a gray zone you can't control. Your market inspection will prefer to enter the store, knock down the price and write down the application because it allegedly has no price, rather than engage in solving this problem that eats up the Serbian economy and the Serbian society. What's the other problem? That's what I was talking about. The problem is that the money that is in legal flows at STR, etc., if it decides to cheat the state and its suppliers, it will let its account be blocked, and it will be supplied in large sales that sell and goods for little. He's damaged his suppliers, he's damaged the state for tax, and you're allowing it all to happen. If someone wants to do the big and small trade, I don't mind, but let it be in separate facilities in two different places. You can't do that in one object. Even such merchants often do damage to their colleagues, who also sell goods on a large scale because, when such a facility is engaged in retail trade, and there are not citizens coming to buy or come in a negligiblely small number, they have no other costs, the cost of renting a business space, greater labour force, the maintenance of that business space, but only those warehouse staff, which, under some pretext, can count even gum per piece, and sell these goods not in the right sense of words to a small but large, but is a circular cycle by issuing a fiscal account. These are the problems of this law, not some suggestion that this law should be arranged in a serious way. So it just leaves the possibility of abuse and nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43260	Two minutes and 40 seconds of MP time were used. Member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Nikola Lazic together submitted to the 42nd amendment. The word is Mrs. Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43261	The title above article 42 is "business name". This article regulates business name issues. Article 1 states: "The trader is obliged to have a prominent business name, i.e. a name or a shortened business name in the sales place". We intervened by thinking that the word "visible" should be deleted from this attitude, above all because every trader, who is legally and properly doing his job, is in the interest and he has a desire to see his business name. So that's understood. Secondly, different interpretations of the owners of the facilities, i.e. traders and market inspectors, were made in practice. What's visible to the trader is that the inspector doesn't see or isn't visible enough, so there have been different complaints from the traders, so we think that this word shouldn't stand. Therefore, it has a prominent business name, i.e. a name or a shortened business name. That's the first remark. In your explanation, you say this is better and better to regulate this matter. That's your opinion. However, in point 2 of this point, you are already deviating from your position that the word "sightly" should stand, because the point 2 is to highlight the basic data on the sales facility. Before that, however, you did not put it to show that it had clearly highlighted basic data on it. So you're not consistent with this article. If you used the word "sightly" here, then when and the basic data were supposed to stand the word "sightly," if you insist on it. If this isn't a harmless member at all, you're suggesting in article 74 that the penalty for these violations is threatened, unless a prominent business name is visible, there's a penalty of 100,000 dinars to 1,000 dinars, so I think you should accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43262	40 seconds of the authorized representative's time has been used. The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Grujic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Mladen Grujic submitted to the 44th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojić, Ivan Andric and Slobodan Maras together submitted to the 45th amendment. The word is Mr. Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43263	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. My colleagues and colleagues, it says "Ivan Antic" here and in every place where the amendment of our MP group, Andric, is mentioned, has been signed, but in each place it says "Ivan Antic". I don't know who to blame. That in one place it's wrong, so I understand that printing is a mistake. He'll be here to the government. Our colleague's name is Ivan Andric and he's an economist. Since he's gone, I'll repeat what I said in the principle debate. This is a fundamental amendment for us and I understand the government that says that this article cannot be deleted because it is the concept of the law and in line with the strategic document. It is a member of the law that is prescribed for every investor who wants to open trade over 2,000 square squares, in these 2,000 squares includes a storage space, or a warehouse space, that in the case of a scientific and research institution, whose license is likely to be granted by the Ministry, a study on the impact on the market, and then a favourable assessment by the Trade Development Agency, which will be formed and which will essentially be part of the ministry. This has led us to the situation that the minister in Belgrade is giving permission to build over 2,000 square squares of trade facilities. A positive assessment of this market study is the necessary paper to be submitted to the local self-government for a building permit. Indirectly, it means the minister enters the business of giving building permits. We really think it's the essence of the law and we understand that you can't accept our amendment to erase this, but we don't think that's a good thing. It is our dispute that will remain, because we think that this solution from the law, which gives the Ministry so many free hands that it affects the market, is absolutely against the Constitution that protects free competition, and against the SAA, and it's just amazing that it's found. But where we are, most of us will vote, she will claim that this power of the minister strengthens competition, we will argue that it absolutely protects the monopolies. After all, there is one sentence in the law which mentions a study that the investor will have to do to analyse the impact of this new trade on the structure of the market, so it has a favourable impact on the structure and an unfavourable impact on the structure. We therefore conclude that the current structure of the market is one value that will be defended by this member of the law. We don't think this structure is worth it, but we don't think that this structure, which isn't worth it, is too bad, should defend the minister. Mr. Minister, we can have as many studies as we want that there are no monopolies in Serbia, but two things are enough to prove that something with competition is wrong. One is the prices in our stores and you who travel certainly compared and realized that prices in our shops, from food goods to other goods of broad consumption, are greater than the same goods in Western Europe. Examples of diapers, clothes, etc. They've already gone out to repeat them here. On the other hand, you will agree that it is easy to see in Montenegro that the milk "cow" sold in Serbia is more expensive in Serbia than in Montenegro, and should be the opposite bar for transport costs. It's proof that there's a monopoly here. The other evidence is the size of the margins. I see in the preparation and pi-ar activities of your ministry for the adoption of this law you let the stories of the margins have fallen. They may have fallen, but you are not aware that they did not fall because of increased competition but because of reduced purchasing power of citizens. We deeply believe that this solution in Serbia, which submitted its EU membership bid, should not be found in 2010. We think this is bad for a few more reasons. We don't think this is going to be an incentive for foreign investors anyway. On the contrary, this will deter foreign investors. Your government has been saying that it will implement a guillotine of regulations and thus facilitate or make Serbia more attractive for foreign investment, here it is essentially a reverse process, you introduce a new paper that requires investors to get a permit to build. You're taking one of the local self-government's powers, which is not in line with what part of your government is saying, that it's in favour of decentralisation. We of the LDP were aware that they were empty stories, and this is the bill that proves in part that they are empty stories. You're giving us an argument. What kind of decentralisation is it if you take one authority of local self-government, which is building permits, and you condition that paper which, turn-turn, through the agency and the scientific research institution is essentially controlled by the central government, or the government in Belgrade, or your ministry. We really think that the market should be allowed to regulate when and where something will be built. We are convinced that you know that anyone who wants serious money to invest here in Serbia will definitely do a study, pay whoever they trust, because no one is crazy enough to build an object and invest a few dozen million euros, and that there is no previous physibilities in the study, that there is no market research, etc. Unfortunately, I said that, again in one sentence, it seems to us that this is another proof that your government is only on the words for European values and for the accelerated accession of the EU, and that you are essentially doing nothing to achieve this. I also remind you of a European Commission report assessing the degree of achievement and achievements of Serbia when it comes to European laws. Among other things, we resent the lack of competition, i.e. strengthening the monopoly. I don't want to remind you of the past, when we proposed a single company poll committee that is not ambiguous, at prices and at all, and at the end of the day, it was a way to determine whether or not the monopoly and what's going on, that company is in some turbulences, part of the company or the whole thing is going to sell, and if tomorrow someone "Delta Maxi" buys, that same LDP biargumentation was. No one should have a monopoly called Miskovic or Jean Pierre from Brussels, or anyone else. We think that this concept that you've suggested essentially puts a great deal of responsibility on your shoulders. This government will last another two years and we don't know what's going to happen in the election. The people will vote on how they will vote, but we're sure, Mr. Minister, that this law that we're adopting after 17 years of applying this one that should have really gone down in history because time has run over it will certainly not last that long. We are sure that we will come very quickly to the opportunity that this authority, which you are obtaining and taking by this law, discretionary authority, cannot survive in the future. After all, we are not well on a scale of countries that are immune to corruption. We're quite burdened with that pain, like everyone else, but in some things we're absolutely above others. We do not think this is the power of the minister to contribute to the reduction of systemic corruption. On the contrary, we think that this power of the minister is something that can only speed it up. This is why we cannot accept this law, which is needed, and which has the authority to maintain the existing structure. After all, leave the market to regulate it. He made Miskovic "Delta" in New Belgrade, so Matic made "Usce". Who's damaged by that, by making "the mouth"? It's probably damaged and the Delti traffic is down. Tomorrow, when Ikea, who's in trouble and I don't know if it's going to happen, buy land and open some kind of mall relatively close to these two big malls, who's going to be possibly damaged? There'll be Delta City and Ustasha, but it'll make them do better, lower prices. Who will benefit, Mr. Milosavlevich? Just citizens. Ask those citizens who go to the mouth do they mind what it is? Let go of those lobbying and racketeering stories who gave it permission to be at the center of town. In Western Europe, major shopping centres are on the edges of the city because such large parts of the country cannot be bought in the city centre. The answer is that there's no big mall of, I don't know, 50,000 squares on Vracar, and it could be for the people who live there to happen. It can't be opened on the Wizard because there's no such thing as a piece of land. We have often talked about the command economy in some laws, and it seems to us that this is an explicit example of what we thought was the past, some kind of plan economy, a command economy, where you will determine who's going to build. I'd like to see you leave out a positive opinion about some investor who wants to build near an existing mall new, on the periphery where there's room for parking and for that, how are you going to get him to go to Valjevo and do it there? You won't. Valjevo or King's or Trade's, of course. Because if that were the way it worked, then one system that failed 20 years ago would have won, and it basically failed. On the other hand, this law generally devises the Consumer Protection Act. The law, the one we adopt, and the Consumer Protection Act, should be somehow balanced. All right, this law to regulate and define trade, regulations and relationships between economic operators or registered traders, as big or small as they are, and that's their interest. On the other hand, there are consumers. With this law, you are so far away from large monopolies and merchants stopping and taking your powers, that the Consumer Protection Act, which we hope to bring relatively soon, however good it is, will essentially be unthinkable and will not be able to protect consumers. Consumers will be protected by consistent application of all regulations and competition. The consistent application of all the rules is the pain of our country, but we are adopting laws, as they say from Brussels, we are not applying them, and when it comes to competition, this law, however many times you have written in an explanation that strengthens competition, it protects the existing structure of the market, and it is certainly not competitive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43264	Twelve minutes, thanks anyway. Mr. Minister, then Mr. Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43265	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ostojić, I agree with you that this is an important member of the law, not most important, but important. I also know that one of the main objectives of the LDP is that Serbia becomes a part of the European people's family as soon as possible, part of the single European market, and here I am, not going into the depth of the reasons why this member is needed, why this impact study on the market is needed, giving you just a few examples of comparative practice in the most developed countries, the EU market economy, where similar legal solutions and similar studies exist. For example, from Switzerland, France, Austria, Great Britain, France, there are the same or almost similar provisions of the law. They differ from country to country depending on the square of objects that require similar impact studies on the structure of the market. For example, 300 square meters is in France, the lower limit is 5,000 square meters in Switzerland. Now several concrete examples from EU countries. For example, Austria. The 2000 Law on Planning and Construction stipulates that a federal permit related to the impact of these facilities on the structure of the market is necessary for the construction of sales facilities of more than 800 square metres. Great Britain, all the shops over two and a half thousand square meters that plan to open, also determine their impact on trade, competitive shops and shopping centres. France, the French law of 1996 was as much as 300 square meters in France, the border above which the license was to be obtained. This regulation was also before the European Commission. The questions raised by the MPs were just about market freedoms and the restriction of market freedoms, and the Commission took the view that this law does not allow local authorities to impose discriminatory restrictions on goods and economic operators of other EU member states, to appear and be on the French market, given that such a law is non-discriminatory within the meaning of Articles 5, 52 and 59, and there were no grounds for the Commission to disable or prohibit or punish France for such solutions. Spain, 1995, the Law on Trade, has also been established that for the opening of a hypermarket a license must be granted by the Government by issuing a working licence for all actions above 2,500 square metres, so such a solution is not contrary to the EU's most developed market economy. They're trying to influence the structure of the market right now. We talked about these possible negative effects of this solution. But imagine another situation, that in one wider geographical area, for example, one municipality, all locations buy one trade chain or one investor, and that, for example, in one territory, you have ten or fifteen retail objects of the same trade chain and that only then, if there is not at least a small impact and a struggle for competition, there is no competition for consumers from that part of the city, for example, they have to buy only in one trade chain. A solution like this should make it impossible. I will once again tell you the very clear determination of the Ministry of Trade and Services that this is not a barrier, that this is not an administrative obstacle, that this is not a commanding investment management in the trade sector, but above all the need to know where, who, when it comes to what it wants to build, is precisely to stimulate them rather than destimulate them. This isn't the most important member of the law. It's important. We have not gone beyond parallel solutions in other EU countries. I really think that this is important in some future period, in which we are just expecting large investments in the trade sector, to help the equal regional presence of the largest trading formats, domestic and foreign, to ensure the presence of different trading formats and to help citizens of Serbia, consumers, to have a choice and quality in terms of the supply of commercial formats near their place of life and work. That is why this amendment has been rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43266	First Mr. Stevanović, then Mr. Ostojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43267	The Serbian Radical Party would comment on this member. True, we don't have the same starting point as our colleagues from other opposition parties. It was nice what you said, but it's totally anachronous. All the things you've counted and called for the EU had a reason before, let's not be rigorous for ten years. It was seven years ago, five years ago. You took us to the EU in 2000, she promised in 2006. The countries you counted, you even mentioned the Law on Planning and Construction from the State of Austria, let's see what year that law was passed. In 2000. Is that news? It took you ten years to realize that there is a need or significance of a study that, you mention here, will balance regional development. Right? Yes, it is. But the fundamental question for us is – what has been waiting until now? Whose interest or ignorance was in force, so it's been waiting ten years? We don't share, I say, the idea that everything should be absolutely free, all that freedom that on one level has no limits turns into its opposite, turns into anarchy, and we have nothing against it, the state is doing it. But we are very interested – why haven't you asked or insisted so far? Because you boasted of investments that, by their economic essence, were bad, investments in trade and services that we are looking at today on the global economic plan in the country, because our export potential and everything else is at the level at which it is. It has been repeated to you that you are opening these malls, both you and your colleagues, that you do not resent the poor, who sowed their shopping centres in Serbia, not where regional development is needed, but which is quite normal and logical, where their economic interest recognises and sees itself. As a state, you were obliged to prevent and to imitate or to comply with our and our market and economic needs. You didn't do it. Now, ten years after that, we are calling for a European parallel legal practice and we are looking for an excuse in it for something like this. You have caused persistent market disturbances because of your relationship with the malls that have been flowing in the way they have been spreading through Serbia so far. This study you're looking for in the future won't fix it. It may not be possible for any disturbances, if your intentions are good, prolonging and happening again or developing, to experience their expansion. What you've done wrong so far, you won't be able to change that. My question, since you are calling for planning documents, or spatial planning you mentioned here, if someone here insisted on the importance of strategic and planning documents, it was the SRS, but you only now boast after 10 years of coming to power that you have entered the procedure to make plans for the municipality, development and strategic documents, how can we believe in good intentions? That's one thing. The other thing we really need to ask, you can't look at this in isolation. You can't, in the context of strategic and planning development projects and documents, just watch trade. That's what Mr Krasic was talking about. It's nice that you're referring to plan-based spatial planning, because it includes everything, both trade and industry, and demographics and everything else. You can't look at it in isolation. It is very ungrateful for you, as Minister, to provide yourself a discretionary right as in the last article where you are closer to prescribing the content, etc. We're interested in what these studies will rely on? Compared to what development documents will they be compared to, so as to assess whether they are good or not? Do they have a foothold and a link to strategic and planning documents that define development and markets and economies across this country. Whether it will be spatial plans, the planning documents stemming from them, the urban and some lower order, or, Mr. Minister, it will be the development documents arising from the Regional Development Act, which has not yet come into force or not. It may have taken effect, but it doesn't apply. To make the irony bigger, no development document that should ensure our balanced development in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia has yet to be drawn up. How can we take your intentions seriously through a member like this? We really can't, and it's really degutant that you're defending this in parallel with EU law practice. You really had a chance as a pro-European government, an opportunity and a time to build into this old law that was passed in 2002, an ideal opportunity for you to predict the study then, but Miskovic and the rest of the team did not give a blessing on such a thing. Now we're talking about how this is a European practice, so we're going to do something nice. The SRS would really like these studies to be shown as useful and effective, and to give their effect on the ground in the context of the economic development of the Republic of Serbia. We fear that, like everything else, it will remain an object, or a dead letter on paper, and yet, God forbid what fellow Ostojić says, the subject of corruption, abuse and all that our society and state did not have.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43268	Now we're gonna have to calculate this, so I'll let you know. I just want to apologize to Mr. Ostojic, especially Mr. Ivan Andric, because we really saw a consistent repeat of the error in his last name, which is completely inexplicable, so next time we ask the government, when we return her material to correct her mistakes and to deliver it to us. I hope that's okay. Thank you. The word is Mr. Ostojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43269	Mr. Minister, you compare incomparably, a Serbian country that has a huge unemployment rate, in which the social product and growth of the economy depends on foreign investments, with one Switzerland. After all, Switzerland is a neutral country, and we are not, even though such a sentence is voted here. We will not attract this law, we will destimulate foreign investments. That's the point. They will reflect twice the standard of Serbian citizens. There won't be any capital needed for development, I'm not saying that all you need is capital in the store, away from it, you need any. On the other hand, citizens will continue to pay more expensive goods in stores. To prove to you that you're not in any way consistent with that concept. In Article 15, which speaks of formats, which occupy a larger space and are located on the edges of large cities, I am talking about the explanation, and that is fine, should be formatted. But in this article 45, you're making each other rough, completely different, at over 2000 and below 2000, and you'll agree that 2000 doesn't have to be a market or a supermarket, it can be some specialized store a little bigger, a furniture salon with a storage space sale and a sale of ropes to be bigger. It's not consistent. You let that story go that you're gonna stop one from buying all the locations on one of the municipalities because there's a monopoly. There is a law in this country on the protection of competition. You can't use this law to try to get into that area now. Let's keep this law in line, so what you're saying is that you want to stop a member of the 45th won't be possible. For starters, let's choose the Competition Protection Council, which has already fallen to two members for six months, their mandate has expired, been a competition since January or December. That law doesn't apply, and you say, with this trade law, you want to protect competition, and that's not consistent, and so is what I said. That's the slow part. I don't want to answer any more, everyone stays in their positions, and time will show who's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43270	The 46th Amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 46th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Member of the 46th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 47 and 47 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. The word is Mrs. Lydia Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43271	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS Parliament Club, specifically counterpart Milan Škrbic, submitted this amendment to Article 47, but amendments concerning the same matter were submitted to Article 48, 49, 53, paragraphs 2 and 77. These are amendments which provide for the erasure of provisions relating to the establishment of a trade development centre. Of course, we have nothing against promotion of trade, on the contrary. However, it is our view that the mall for the development of trade should not be established. He will do the tasks that are assigned to him as trustworthy. In every debate when such a new body, such as agencies, directorates and such, we always say that these are new state bodies that are not defined by the Constitution, which are illegal and parallel to state bodies. However, it is the practice of this government to continuously establish such bodies. I will now read the information provided by the Public Information Commissioner Rodoljub Sabic in 2009. He said he managed to record 140 different bodies, starting with ministries, administrations, institutions, funds and other organisations. After that, however, a catalogue was created and a catalogue of authorities and all possible entities that exercise some authority, spend some public money, and believe it or not, according to Rodoljub Sabic, the Commissioner for Public Information in the Republic of Serbia, has over 11,000 in Serbia. So in 11,000 places, there's some kind of government going on every day, spending some kind of public money. These are subjects at the highest level of state structure. The Commissioner further says that these are numerous, complicated and no doubt expensive structures, that there are bodies whose competences are mutually or in relation to some ministries and which are indeed causing a dilemma about the need for them to exist. Now I'm going to try to read only one part of which the agency has in Serbia. I'll start with the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development first, because there are quite a few. The Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments was once the Agency for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, which was now renamed the Agency for Regional Development, then the Privatisation Agency, the Agency for the Licensing of Banks, the Agency for Business Registers, the Agency for Insurance and Financing of Exports and four other funds. It's about the Ministry of Economy. I'll read what other agencies there are. Of course that's not all, that's just part of it. Environmental Protection Agency, Anti-Dumping Agency, Recycling Agency, Energy Efficiency Agency, Anti-Corruption Agency, Agency for Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes, Mining Agency, Spatial Planning Agency, Medicines and Medical Devices, Directorate for Measures and Expensive Metals. That's just the part I just read. All those bodies that are established are very expensive and all the jobs they do can be easily done in the context of certain sectors of the ministries. What we believe is that the establishment of a mall for the development of trade is to correct what has been done after the adoption of the Law on the reduction of the number of employees in the state administration. So, when we passed laws that formed all these bodies, we said we shouldn't start them. They were founded, parallel organs were created. So, the same jobs are done in multiple places and then an overnumbered administration, and that should have been reduced. Many have lost their jobs, and now they need to be taken care of. I will comment briefly on a member of the 77th draft law. We, of course, suggested that he be deleted, along with Articles 47, 48, 49 and 53. Member of the 47th says – until the start of the Centre for Development of Trade in the Centre is carried out by the Ministry. I'm sorry Mr. Secretary came out, but if he comes back, maybe his associates will let him know, so maybe he'll answer. What is the problem with the business of promotion of trade being done by the future Ministry of Trade? So is it a lack of space, of technical conditions, of personnel, or perhaps the problem is that we would only have one sector manager? There would be no director, no deputy director, no board of directors, no board members, and these are all paid functions. So there wouldn't be one such large and quite expensive organ management. I've talked more than once about how much money the agencies make, this time I won't, but mostly the biggest one was 355,000, and the smallest one was one part, so a third, 40 and some thousands. The fact is it's high wages and it's very, very expensive management bodies. I think that's why all of these bodies are set up, and that's why the SRS Parliament Club suggested that all of the provisions relating to the establishment of this centre be deleted, not because we don't support efforts to improve trade, but because we consider it unnecessary and expensive apparatus.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43272	Seven minutes and 15 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word is Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43273	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, the existence of a trade development centre is not our invention and is not the invention of the Republic of Serbia and of this government, such centres for the development of trade exist in many European countries that are members of the EU, but also exist in those European countries that are not members of the EU. Some other countries in Europe have such a shopping development centre. The purpose of my report is next. Since there is no precise provision in this article of Law 47, since it is not written where the seat will be, I did not want to intervene with the amendment, but I would like to ask Mr. Minister, when we are talking about a shopping development centre, which will certainly be formed, and the establishment and operation of the centre will be subject to the rules governing public agencies, I propose that the mall for the development of trade be in the town of Kruševec and that the headquarters of the mall for the development of trade be in Kruševec. It is good to move some of the republican institutions out of Belgrade, as scheduled for the Constitutional Court's seat to be in Sremski Karlovci. The town of Kruševac is ready for the mall for the development of trade to be suitable space, free of charge to use the Ministry of Trade, and at the same time it would not cause the costs some speak of. I don't want to get into what the cost is. There is no budget for the development of trade at all here, so I do not want to be psychic and talk about material costs, but I want to make a proposal and I think it is a good thing that many agencies, many centres and such institutions formed, with the aim of promoting not only trade, but also other sectors and other economic activities, are moving from Belgrade to Serbia. I think that the town of Kruševac, like the former shopping mall, is a good place in which such a centre can find its place and have the right building, that there are appropriate people of quality who would work in it and that would be good for this government at the same time, to show that we are really essential in favour of Serbia's decentralisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43274	Mr. Stevanović, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43275	I would not like to get the impression that the SRS does not support the concept of decentralisation, but we really cannot understand that under the decentralisation concept, it is considered that, I would not now say state, but parallel state institutions, as this centre, or agency, will be, because its functioning will be regulated by the Public Agency Act, are being moved. If that's the kind of decentralisation, then we're all really defeated together. You could show your willingness to decentralisation to decentralize, above all, finance, to deal with legislation that will regulate the status of local self-government and its property, to give it the potential to be strong, so that through some other ventures we really talk about decentralisation. The essence of our grudge, and that is why we suggest that all the members involved in the promotion of trade be deleted here, but in the way you predict. The practice of both European and some other countries having such centres does not mean that we will bear fruit. Serbia, as my colleague Dimitrijevic said earlier, has over 120 or 130 agencies, and I believe 10 or 20 agencies have justified the purpose and purpose of their existence for all these years. Everyone else was used for political trade, for electoral, pre-election or post-election promotion, competition and trade, or for taking care of human beings who, unfortunately, had no place in state authorities, so we're going to make parallel state bodies and we're going to nick them there. Unfortunately, it's our cruel reality and that's how it is. We don't mind you promoting trade, but you can, as well as the establishment of this center, work with resources and technical and material and human resources that you have in the ministry, I suppose. Because if you didn't have extras on the ministries, the IMF with which you're going into an arrangement wouldn't be hitting your nuts if you had to cut down on that public administration and fire, so you made a commitment to it, and you can't do it the way you committed to them. And not because you understand that you and our Serbian need to sort out public administration, so we're going to sell to the people how we're going to fire now to reduce public spending, but in every new law that we send to this assembly, we're going to provide for a new agency, a directorate, a commission or something that works on the principles regulated by the Public Agency Act. That's unfortunately so. You admit that you won't. We don't expect that from you, but what we do know is that all of this is going to cost us and this vicious cycle of poverty so we won't be able to get over it, or out of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43276	Three minutes and 10 seconds. The word is Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43277	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when I spoke about the need to form a trade promotion centre and the importance of the centre's headquarters not in the city of Belgrade, but rather in the town of Krusevec, I said it would significantly reduce all costs of such a centre. At the same time, a centre like this needs the Republic of Serbia and our trade, and I believe that when I make a proposal that there will be no large material costs, when it comes to housing capacity and that there will be no great cost when it comes to employees in the centre, I do not think it is appropriate to open through the Law on Trade in the Genderics of the Law on decentralisation of Serbia. I agree with the respected Mr. Stevanovic that there is no essential decentralisation without returning property to municipalities and cities of the Republic of Serbia and I agree with many of his views here. But I do think it is good, however, that there is a mall for the development of trade in the Republic of Serbia and that it is good for a specialised body to take over, as trusted jobs, certain jobs in the trade sector and to be a specialised body in these affairs. Because it will be able to contribute much, not only to the development of trade and not only to make a database, which is so necessary when it comes to the trade of the Republic of Serbia, but to the intrinsic need for the numerous obligations that the ministry has just passed on to this institution and it has nothing to do with the decentralisation of the Republic of Serbia. With the decentralisation of the Republic of Serbia, there is only this segment that I have told about the Agency's headquarters in the town of Krusevec. I don't mind Mr. Stevanovic asking that the agency's headquarters be in Vranja or Surdulica, or Vladica Han, because that part of Serbia also needs to be developed and shown concern for the Republic of Serbia. I don't think it's appropriate to discuss Serbia's decentralisation through the Trade Act. There are so many laws that we will have on the agenda and we have, where we could use this topic, so that I would not continue to talk about Serbia's decentralisation and to go into controversy with Mr. Stevanovic, but to go back to the law on trade.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43278	Two minutes and 35 seconds, the remaining time is 82 minutes and 30 seconds. The word has Mr. Stevanović, 49 minutes and 30 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43279	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've only touched through my discussion as much as you, Mr. Milivojevic, have in your discussion given room for such a thing. I don't want to talk about decentralisation, but you have to know one thing. It's not about decentralisation, it's not about Kruševec, it's not about my Surdulice, it's not about Vranje. Decentralisation is done in Belgrade and Belgrade. If there is no political will and political consciousness in Belgrade to carry out decentralisation, there will indeed not be one. Such individual moves or offers, nice of you to offer, but I have to tell you that this agency or the Trade Development Center is going to cost all of us taxpayers wherever they are, whether in Krusevec, at my place in Surdulica, here in Belgrade or somewhere in Vojvodina, it doesn't matter. The fact that you will be in good faith from Kruševec to offer free space will certainly be 99% of the municipalities in Serbia, including in the town of Belgrade, ready to offer one such space. But on behalf of that agency and for the alleged business that will be done by you both in Krusevec and here in Belgrade, they will also cost electricity, PTT services, heating, municipal and, unfortunately, new employees who will be placed and employed by that agency, and there is no rationalisation and there is no point. We believe that if there really is a political will with the capacities they already have in the ministry, they can really send a good signal to all of us coming from the province or from the periphery, however you like, that they want to work in the context of decentralisation and that they want to give meaning to those services, even if they are in Belgrade, to work and to show that they have a purpose, to justify their purpose and purpose of their existence. I repeat, until now, all agencies, as imaginary as this one, have not justified the purpose of their existence and the need to establish them. And from that aspect, we're criticizing this, and we really shouldn't, and it's completely wrong to bring this into the context of decentralisation. But this Agency for the Development and Promotion of the Market is absolutely Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and our lack of property is not necessary. They can do it with the capacities they go with and not be on principle – they hear frogs bitching, so will she. She did this to Europe, and so will we. Let's show that something like that makes sense, and then maybe that's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43280	Two minutes and 40 seconds of Parliament time. Thank you, there are Sombor and Kickinda, and there are other cities for these purposes. National MPs Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic together submitted the title above Articles 47 and 47. The word is Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43281	Now my colleagues have complicated the situation a little bit. I didn't know. In the future, I'll know that it's possible by amendment to affect where a certain agency or centre will be located, where it will be based. Perhaps Mr Milivojevic was burning to tell everyone, as well as the citizens of Kruševec, that this centre will be located in Kruševec. To join, I come from the poorest district in Serbia, which is the Pyrotski District, is a dead race between Pcinjski and Pirotski, here I suggest that this center be located and its headquarters in Dimitrovgrad. Superplace, 3km from the Gradina border crossing, fantastic, best crossing in Serbia, excellent travel infrastructure. We'll also provide free space. If you need a local self-government a little bit and a touch for employees' salaries, you can help. The joke aside, in fact it isn't, you ministers think about it, so we'll withdraw these amendments. This Chapter 6, entitled "Promotion of Trade", contains those three members and mainly deals with the establishment of a trade development centre, then the next two members of 48th and 49th talk about some of the obligations that the centre would eventually have. You can see these members have caused a lot of reaction from the MPs. You have some MPs suggesting that these members be deleted. We've decided on a different concept, where we don't think a special centre should be set up, but that these jobs, which are very important, at least this way, when we read what jobs the centre would do, we think that there are capacities in the Ministry and enough employees to do them. You have responded to these amendments, this is one in a series of these amendments, and you have responded to it departing from the strategic document. It seems to me, in 2009, the Serbian government adopted a strategy on the development of trade and that is what the strategy envisions. But in early 2009, I don't think it was such a difficult economic situation, that they weren't in the announcement of savings when it came to administrations and the government itself, which did not implement those savings, if nothing is one of the most numerous governments in Europe. Those savings didn't show up there. We believe that these jobs that you say will be doing the centre, that some of these jobs are already being done in the ministry itself and that there is no need to establish a special centre. You here state in the final view that the establishment and operation of the centre is subject to regulations governing public agencies. So that's what all MPs have eyes for, because you're really talking about a new agency. The Ministry should be doing these jobs. If you leave this to the Agency, then it's a matter of what the Ministry will do. In fact, at the Ministry you now have 570 employees, plus employees at the Stock Reserve Directorate. So we don't have that information, I know you have about 600 employees at the Ministry. You have five sectors, so they're units within the Ministry. For example, in this sector of trade, prices and consumer protection, you also have a department for trade or for the development of trade. In the service sector you also have a department for the development of the service sector. Practically you have units now doing these jobs regarding the development of trade and services. That's why we don't think it's necessary. You're particularly indeterminate when it comes to this center. So in some other law proposals where centres, agencies are established, etc., we have this problem very detailedly worked out, in terms of how many people there will be, how many people will work at that centre, how their compensation will be determined, how boards will be formed, how boards will be managed. Now we're talking about agencies. So we have some other details there. You're just saying here a center is established with very significant powers and that the rights of the founder of the centre are being exercised by the government. The whole story about the centre, about its organization itself, is so mysterious, as we now see it will not be in Belgrade either, but probably in Krusevec. If I'm wrong, then tell the MP from the majority that's not the case. There are a whole series of amendments relating to this issue, so I'll get back to you later.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43282	Four minutes of authorized representative time. Members of the 47th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojic, Ivan Andric and Slobodan Maras. No one's answering for a word. The 47th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word is Mr. Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43283	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, it seems to me that by not accepting this amendment, you've made up a little bit of members of 39th and 45th. It's a bill of law. Here, let's agree on something. It was necessary to regulate which locations and under what conditions large malls could be created. I can tell you may have gone a little too far in the square, but I didn't want to get involved. Two thousand squares, you yourself read from a parallel solution, for a market like this, for our size of cities is a pretty big facility, you have to agree with that. I cannot agree with some of my fellow MPs that everything should be left to liberal capitalism, that is, the market to regulate itself, because it cannot be one small trader, or even more serious, to compete with large trade chains that build such objects. It can't be about the price at which he gets the goods, or the deadlines he pays, or the loans he gets from the banks. It is not true that there is no such shopping malls in the Western European and EU countries, in the centres of cities, which their city centres are built. They are in one part, but in many cities more is being built than in all of Serbia in five years, and even in these urban cores, you do not have such large sales facilities. So, I don't mind that both Serbia and Belgrade and every city in Serbia have them, but let them, like in Budapest, drive 25 and 35 kilometers to such a hypermarket or a sales facility, drive about 20 kilometers, as it is in Vienna. I don't mind it being that way in Belgrade. The buyer has been left to choose, if he wants cheaper, he will be able to, but provided he goes a little further to do his job. It can't be said that the removal of such trading facilities is a distraction to competition, because no one is disturbing anyone. It can be "Tempo", "Merkator", "Rodic", "Corti" all together, no one defends them, so let them compete between each other who will better terms and prices to give to customers. The way it's been done so far, Mr. Minister, and you're carrying part of the responsibility, because you've been a minister before, you've shut down because of your behavior of a lot of trade, you've ruined a lot of families that have supported themselves from these trades, and it's gone irrevocably. But now, what's there. I have submitted an amendment to the position which regulates that unless the mall for the development of trade has acted on a request within a month, it is considered to be positively responsible. However, it is said in an explanation for refusing that if that attitude did not exist, legal uncertainty would be created. Mr. Minister, we could gain legal certainty and prevent the possibility of abuse if the centre is obliged to do so, and the responsible person pays the penalty if he doesn't. So, to the silence of the administration, to answer that some institute or some body is going to run some analysis without anyone entering the depths of what is written, but to delay and wait for 30 days to pass to say—here, you got it. So it wasn't a problem to write it in law. As you know, you punish both legal persons and entrepreneurs who do not comply with this law, so punish the head of the government's authority who has failed to comply with his legal obligation and justified the purpose of his existence. That's the problem. This famous story about the agency and the fact that it has it in EU countries, I agree that it has, may have more than us, but their gross income per capita is more than ten times as big as any of us. We can't measure it and we can't compete with them. The only justification for this centre and its existence is if you would resolve it in two ways: that those who are now working at the ministry move that job to work at the centre or to regulate the opening of the centre with a legal proposal, in transitional and final provisions, that it begins with Serbia's EU degree. You have circled European legislation, domestic opportunities, etc. I agree that maybe you should nod your head and say it - that's how it's gonna be. But, Mr. Minister, you're the minister today and I'm starting to assume that you're telling the truth, here's the thing, I'm not starting to assume, but is that what some fellow who's going to succeed you is going to think? Maybe he won't agree to it, maybe he won't do it like that, maybe he'll hire a whole new one and keep these old ones at the Ministry. If you wrote that in law, maybe he could try to change the law, but he'll have to have a public debate here. That's what this is about. So don't just discipline the market. Discipline your organs to act in accordance with the law, not to leave something to chance. Or, God forbid, what if that face goes on vacation, and the person that changes it is on sick leave? They'll be sitting in a drawer for 30 days and there's no problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43284	It's been used for five minutes, no five seconds, MP time. The 47th amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title above article 48 and Article 48, MP Dusan Maric submitted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 48th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojic, Ivan Andric and Slobodan Maras. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to Article 48 of the amendment. The word is Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43285	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of my interest in this trade law would certainly be Chapter 6 - Promotion of trade. We have submitted the amendment here, trying to bring an unnecessary institution within your ministry into some normal frameworks. Mr. Minister, I've come up with one piece of information, thanks to your very kind employee from the Department of Trade who works in the Public Relations Service, that 570 people have been employed in your ministry. By reading the reasoning of this law and keeping this information in mind, as well as by getting information from the site what are resolutions or what are the departments in your ministry, that I am not reading and listing them now, I was simply interested in whether there is a capacity in your ministry to define such a single body that will deal with the promotion of trade within your ministry? Carefully reading your explanation, I've come up with two questions I hope you'll have an answer for. So how much is it going to cost that state, or taxpayers, to form a body like this, and will there be new employees in that new body? You say he won't. Now reading the argument carefully, paragraph 2, the word is "complex professional affairs that require an adequate level of specialisation that cannot be provided within the body currently in charge of these tasks". What do we do now, Mr. Minister? It cannot be provided within that authority which is in charge of these matters. So, new people. Mr. Minister, at least read what you wrote in your explanation. You want me to tell you again? Namely, it is "complex professional jobs that require an adequate level of specialisation that cannot be provided within the body currently in charge of these tasks". I read Serbian. So, new people. Now let's translate it into some other things. New people cost money, and you end up saying no extra funds are needed. You keep saying that. You speak one thing, and you write another. I read what is written, according to the rules of the Wolf. Read as it is written. That's quite clear. So that'll cost taxpayers. I told you earlier that I was looking for opportunities to see if there were capacities within your ministry. I think there are capacities within your ministry. I think this is an entirely unnecessary institution, no matter what good wishes. So don't realize that we're against promotion of trade. That absolutely doesn't stand. I ask the question – what time do we live in? We live in the weather of the worst economic crisis in these areas. The explanation shows that there will be newly employed people and that it will cost the taxpayers of Serbia. So, Mr. Minister, there is a discrepancy between what you claim and what stands in the light of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43286	Four minutes and 20 seconds of MP time were used. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43287	Very precise, Mr. Dimitrievich. The existing budget positions will form a centre. He'll be part of the ministry. There will be no new people, but people will practically be redistributed from other sectors to the ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43288	National MP Milica Vojic Markovic submitted to the 48th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mrs. Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43289	In Article 48(2), the title above is "Data Exchange". There are some future jobs that this centre would be talking about, we don't think the centre should be set up specifically rather than the Ministry, but one of the jobs would be to collect, manage, track data on trade and trade networks, and especially its structure, etc. That center should be doing something that we all, when we think about it, we think the Department of Commerce is that organ...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43290	I'm sorry, Mrs. Donka, I'll give you your time. Mr. Dimitrievich, it's very difficult for me to follow on two sides, and you didn't get permission. Your chairman is alive and well, thank God. Here you go, Mrs. Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43291	Should I now re-introduce, perhaps the minister will accept the amendment? He won't? Okay, I'm not making a new introduction. Anyway, here the bill promoter predicts that the trader is obliged to deliver to the centre that will collect various data, on the prescribed turnover once a year, and by 31 March at the latest with the state, therefore, that the centre should be delivered by 31 March of some type of report or data. Our amendment consists of moving this deadline to March 31st in 15 days and we propose that it be not March 31st that year but April 15th. For what? Because in the first three months of each year, quite a number of obligations are collected to merchants and people who do this work. They're obliged to deliver at least, I have a list here, I won't read, six reports and different reports, on different forms of data provided, and that's in different institutions. For example, tobacco management and tax administration of three types of forms and accounts, the PIO Fund, etc. I really don't see why you refused this amendment. All I can think is that all the amendments that came from the DSS, that's how you turned them down. This is a good amendment. It came from people who do this job and they say it is March 31st, that it has a lot of obligations, and I don't see why this center, if that job is done 15 days later, would that bother you. He just collects, analyzes, etc. data. There's no other kind of obligation here.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43292	Thank you, Mrs. Donka. It's been used three minutes by an authorised representative, you've got another minute and 15 seconds and 10 minutes. Member of the 49th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Parliamentarians Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojić, Ivan Andric and Slobodan Maras together submitted the 49th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 49th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic and Nikola Lazic. The word is Mr. Arsen Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43293	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleague from the DSS has submitted an amendment to Article 49, as well as to the members of 48th and 47th, and the essence of these amendments is that instead of the Trade Development Centre stands the Trade Ministry. This is one of the main remarks of the DSS on this bill, setting up a trade development centre. We're absolutely against it. I spoke in the debate in principle of the reasons why we're against it. Some of them I'll repeat now. In fact, we believe that within the Ministry of Trade there is sufficient capacity and that it is quite enough for one sector within the Ministry to do all these jobs, and when it comes to professional business in the area of market and trade development, and all of these other jobs listed in Article 47 of the proposed text of the law. So we think it's really necessary for someone to do these jobs, but we think that this can be done within the Ministry of Trade, or one of its sectors. I would not agree with the minister that this will be within the Ministry, given that the last position of the member of the 47th stands - the establishment and operation of the centre is subject to the regulations governing public agencies and the rights of the founder of the centre is exercised by the government. So he can't be part of the Department of Trade. There may be budget funds allocated to the Ministry of Trade redistributed to cover the costs of this centre, but why leave that type of dilemma, it may be so while you are at the head of that ministry, and tomorrow, when it changes, it leaves the possibility of hiring some new people, to additionally burden the budget. Especially in terms of the economic crisis, when we're all talking about the necessity of reducing public spending, rationalising, reducing the number of employees, I think it's extremely unnecessary to set up one of these centers. I repeat, we believe it is important that all these jobs are done, but we believe that they can be done within the Ministry of Trade, or that one sector within the Ministry can do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43294	Two minutes and 10 seconds of the parliamentary group's time has been used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Grujic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 50th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43295	Here, very briefly. We have submitted an amendment to Article 50, so we have suggested that the word "justified" should be deleted in point 3 of point 1 and in paragraph 3 after the word "damage" is added to the words "by the trader or the competitor who did it to him". When selling goods with labels or data that are being confused with consumers about the choice of quality and other characteristics of the goods, this cannot be justified in any case, and therefore we suggested that the word "justified" be deleted and I was indeed convinced that this amendment would be accepted. In practice, there was a single revision, or amendment is of a technical nature, so I invite you to accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43296	Parliamentarian Zoran Krasic submitted to the title above article 51 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The same text was submitted by MPs Sreto Peric, joint MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Marković and Nikola Lazic and joint MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojić, Ivan Andrić and Slobodan Maras. The word is Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43297	Here, very briefly. It's practically the same thing. We have suggested that this position be deleted in Article 53, believing that there should be no trade development centre, but that these trade development jobs should be carried out by the Ministry, given its capacity, the number of employees in that ministry. You rejected the amendment and simply made it clear that you weren't thinking much, I think, about something that cost the state. You probably thought so, starting from the point of view, that is, from some of your statements that in economic terms 2010 it will be far better for the citizens of Serbia than the previous year. Carefully reading it, I came up with an interesting detail, where Goran Papovic, president of the National Consumer Organisation of Serbia, says the next thing to that statement. Calling on that salary that you said would be between 320 and 330 euros, and we'll see if that's how it's going to be, if you're going to send it, and what's going to happen, he said in his comment on your statement about the following -- that it's a far more realistic picture if there's no data on how many people aren't able and doesn't pay the electricity, he doesn't pay the communals, because the situation is what it is, because people don't have money. So on the one hand, you give one optimistic forecast, though, we've heard such forecasts even from the Prime Minister, even one forecast that we've come out of the crisis statistically. Perhaps you take into account this statistics, and based on this statistics and statistically speaking, you predict that we will live far better in 2010. It takes a little tour of Serbia, a little smaller places, seeing what they do in these places, how many people are unemployed, how many people are out of work, and then not giving such optimistic statements, but being realistic and state-run administration to match those measures, those opportunities and those capacities that currently deserve and what the state is.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43298	Two-and-a-half minutes of the parliamentary group's time has been used. The word is Mr. Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43299	Mr. Minister, given your personal capacity, given that you were a minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia three times, and of that twice, the Minister of Trade, frankly, I expected a more high-quality proposal for a law on trade and in some ways you succeeded, but what I thought would be regulated by this law, some indications, some messages, there are none. We are part of the European market and no one seems to want to be a stronger part of the European market than the SRS does. So you see: Guccia, Exit, our agricultural products recognizable. But here goes Gucha's gonna be questioned for some of the obligations that appear there. But you were limited that you couldn't give, I don't believe that now something in your personal properties has brought this House not such a quality bill, but you've been limited to one side by a trom and an inefficient government, and a government that's not ready to respond to the moment of its time, on the one hand. On the other hand, the misprivitisation of processing facilities in agricultural production did not allow us to take a more serious swing. By law, I would forbid you to open a supermarket, a hypermarket, anything in the Serbian area, anyone who opens it, but I would therefore order and encourage you to open it, and you and your colleagues from the government, trade chains in other countries. For what? In this way we would have employed our labour force, but when we had already privatised in the sphere of agricultural production, i.e. the processing of agricultural products, privatized it in such a way, then the raw material base, and the potential for exports remained significantly low and there are no great opportunities, but therefore you had to give an accent in this law much more. We now, when these three members are related to the promotion of trade, and they are related to the Centre for Trade Development, would not agree with counterpart Donko Banovic, of course, nor Srdjan Milivojevic, that the centre's headquarters be in Krusevec. We suggested that those members be deleted. If something were deleted, then the seat of such a center would be somewhere in Drina, Moravi or something. There's no need for such a thing. True, what is found in these three members what should be done by this mall for the development of trade, it sounds modern, it is nice and many things that are found in these three provisions, itself will come. It'll make us have a simple time to trade from both the armchairs and the electronics to trade, and there's no special need to create such a center. A colleague, Zoran Krasic, when speaking as an authorised representative of the SRS under this law, said - what good did the tobacco agency bring us, and wherever they were employed by the tobacco agency. And regardless of where he'll be employed at the mall for the development of trade, but surely those who deal in both wholesale and retail will one day have to pay certain services, which won't be cheap at all, to this employee at the mall for the development of trade. It's pointless, and you don't have to deal with it. When I said you didn't bring a good bill to this House, I first thought you didn't recognize the owners here either as legal persons, either as private entrepreneurs, owners of small businesses. It's all mostly concentrated and more attention is paid to these big ones, and there's a large number of these little ones. Then, sales incentives that appear in supermarkets and hypermarkets certainly have an unfair effect on small shop owners. It is a matter of paying them to farmers, i.e. producers in general and importers. When these promotional sales happen, stocks, discounts, sales and the like, it seems to me that they're sold below cost. That's what someone has to pay for, most of the time, the owners of small shops, didn't pay enough attention to them in this law. I don't want to accuse you of standing on any side, on any side, any owner of the big chain, but you have to side with most citizens of Serbia, and these are consumers in this case, and those small owners of private businesses and private businesses, but to stop and help create an environment, that this government creates an environment, certainly for large trades, i.e. large hypermarkets and supermarkets. There is no need for the existence of a mall for the development of trade. Pay attention, I don't know how close it is to this law, but in any case, it is in the most direct relationship with the Ministry you run. Authorised service providers for fiscal cash registers, whether they are sufficiently qualified, whether they are professional enough and whether they are doing their job in accordance with the law. When it comes to fiscal policy, we'd have to as the Department of Commerce check it out. If there's no reaction, I'll give you concrete evidence of where the Trade Ministry should intervene.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43300	Three minutes and 45 seconds of Parliament time. The 55th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Nikola Lazic. The word is Mrs. Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43301	Article 55 refers to the exercise of inspection supervision, which is all the powers of the market inspector. There's a lot of authority around 13, 14. We have submitted an amendment at point 7) because the proposal says that "the market inspector has the authority to carry out a vehicle inspection, in case it is known to be a vehicle in a business function". The way you suggested this is very vague. What kind of review will be carried out by a market inspector, a visual, technical inspector, whether when he finds out that a vehicle is in the business of telling the owner that he has to go to the nearest garage or where this technical inspection will take place, so this is completely unclear. Maybe I'm wrong, you're also here saying in the light of the amendment that it's not accepted, because it's not the subject of this law. You're talking right here about a vehicle checkup, you just didn't explain what kind of review it was. We have submitted an amendment which states that this market inspector is taking into account the accompanying documentation of the vehicle in the event of knowledge that it is a vehicle in the function of carrying out the trade. It was our assumption that you're here to say it, because the market inspector is not a car mechanic, he can't check technical correctness, but he can if he finds out that a vehicle is used in that store to look at the documentation that the trader has. So, is that car even allowed to be involved in doing business? You refused that amendment, I'm guessing that's not it, but either you didn't at least explain what insight, or how a vehicle is examined by a market inspector.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43302	The 55th amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Grujic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to Article 59 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojić, Ivan Andric and Slobodan Maras together submitted to the 61st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 62 of the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43303	We have submitted the amendment to Article 62(3). It reads in the Bill's proposal: "The measure set out in Article 1 shall be determined for a period of time until the prescribed conditions are met and for a maximum period of six months". That's what the proposal says. We suggest that that deadline be reduced to three months. This article refers to the measures in the inspection procedure, which provides for a total of five measures and one of these measures is a temporary ban on the conduct of trade outside the sales facility. It is said that the market inspector will impose a temporary ban on the conduct of trade outside the sale facility if an infringement of the prescribed conditions for carrying out this trade is established. Item 2: "The prohibition laid down in Article 1 may apply to a certain form of trade outside the sale facility, a certain type of goods, an area, persons performing trade, or other conditions in respect of which a breach of this law has been established". Article 3, to which we have submitted the amendment, reads: "The measure laid down in Article 1 shall be determined for a period of time until the prescribed conditions have been met and for a maximum period of six months". We've suggested that the six-month deadline be reduced to three months and I think it's more optimal. It means, to shorten the deadline or to remove the perceived defects, what the inspector found during the surveillance or to stop working completely. I think this deadline is appropriate and that it doesn't essentially change and it's not like we asked for the center to be deleted here. We're just asking to cut the deadline. I think this is perfectly acceptable for the Department of Commerce, too, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43304	The 64th amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Grujic. There's no answer for word. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 64th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Member of the 68th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The word is Mrs. Lydia Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43305	Dear Chairman, I will only try briefly to explain why this amendment has been submitted. Article 68(1) states: "All actions in the inspection procedure of importance for the determination of the facts, the market inspector shall draw up a record". Then, in the fourth point: "About issues that are not of direct importance for determining the actual situation, the market inspector draws up an official note". It's nothing to argue with. Without the intention of saying that the market inspector here could improvise what is important and what is not, of course, what are the things that matter. I also consider the SRS and counterpart Mirovic, who signed this amendment, that it is good that all the actions that were made during inspection supervision are entered into the minutes. It's in the shortest lines what was the essence of my amendment and I think this amendment should have been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43306	The 68th amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Grujic. There's no answer for word. National MPs Nenad Popovic, Arsen Djuric and a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" Group together submitted the amendment to Article 73. Mr. Djuric has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43307	Mr. Nenad Popovic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 73, where we propose to replace the 3rd word "60" with the word "30". Namely, this article in 73 refers to damages in the event of a cancellation of the solution and the trader has the right to apply to the ministry for compensation for extrajudicial settlement. The ministry is scheduled to respond within 60 days. We believe that a 30-day period is quite sufficient and that this is a more appropriate time limit, so that in that sense we have submitted the amendment, in order to avoid the situation for traders to suffer damages and additional damages due to unscheduledness. We think that 30 days is an entirely optimal deadline and that this amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43308	Members of the 74th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojic, Ivan Andric and Slobodan Maras. There's no answer for word. The 74th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Mr. Delic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43309	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, when it comes to Article 74 and Article 75, where criminal provisions are spoken, our proposal was to add the word "entrepreneur" behind the word "face". If you'd given me any other explanation, we could have discussed it. However, this argument, which stands for both Article 74 and Article 75, simply cannot be accepted, because it calls for the amendment not to be accepted for the reasons set out in Amendment No 60, and the amendment says that the amendment is not accepted for reasons of legal and technical failure, because the amendment is not signed. Otherwise, all amendments submitted by a group of 21 MPs are given in order, so that these earlier ones would then be practically rejected for the same reason. Or these people who wrote the arguments were too tired, so this technical mistake was stolen from them, but we noticed it, and we're not satisfied with this argument. We believe that our proposal for a member of 74th and for a member of 75th may have been further explained or perhaps more precise, although your answer may be such that if you said – a legal person, you mean that it is also an entrepreneur. Consider whether it is possible to accept these amendments, and on behalf of the Prosperity Group, Serbia we accept that this is a technical mistake that has been subdued by the ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43310	Thank you, Mr. Delic. We claimed she wasn't the only one. Member of the 74th amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs. Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43311	We've already gone to chapter nine where the criminal provisions are. We have a few amendments here. The bottom line is that we believe that the legislator unnecessarily and unwarrantedly took different types of offenses into account and foresees the same threatened penalties, so we separated them through three amendments. For example, this particular amendment is made at point 1) and the bill states that a fine of 100,000 dinars to millions of dinars will be fined for a violation of a legal person if it does not keep a record of traffic in a complete and prescribed manner. Then the invited member 37. We believe that it is not the same severity of the offence, and it does not deserve the same punishment or at least to be in the same group, when the trader does not keep any traffic records at all, or when that record is kept incompletely or in some unrecorded way. If it doesn't keep a record of traffic at all, we think that there should be such high penalties, but in case that records are not fully conducted, it can be for some justified reasons, it can be passed some new laws, it can simply be subject to ignorance, and then it can be taught how to keep the records properly, and that's why we've separated these two violations and then we've suggested that I don't report 100 times, but we've also proposed a new member of 74a, where we've provided for lesser penalties that if the records are conducted in an incomplete and unlicensed manner we've separated from this where they don't run at all. The following amendment refers to point 3. It's basically the same. You suggest that a fine of 100,000 to millions of dinars is once again predicted, unless the price is pointed out or the price is pointed out in a regulated manner. Again, we believe that these are different offences, that it is a major offence, and therefore there should be greater impediments, unless the price of the market inspector is at all pointed out in a way that is not regulated. We've separated these violations, and we believe that some of them are more serious. Therefore, more punishment should be threatened. These others are less weight, those penalties should be less.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43312	Thank you, Mrs. Donka. One minute and 10 seconds have been used, five seconds left as an authorised representative. The 74th Amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 74th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Kasalovic. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Member of the 74th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 75 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs from the Progress Serbia group submitted to Article 75 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I thank Mr Delic, who only commented that the explanation is the same as the previous amendment, so we appreciate this mistake and ask that it is not coming in the future. The 77th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic, joint MPs Donka Banović, Nikola Lazic and Milica Vojić Markovic and joint MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojić, Ivan Andric and Slobodan Maras. The word is Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43313	Mr. Minister, we've been paved around this mall for the development of trade in Articles 49 and 53. We persuaded you of the unnecessary creation of these new bodies. Now please take the law into your hands and read Article 77. The main issue in the area around these members was whether the ministry has the capacity or not to do this job that should be done by the mall for the development of trade. You wrote the following in article 77 – until the beginning of the work of the Centre for the Development of Trade in the Centre is carried out by the Ministry. So, the Ministry can and has the capacity to perform, and that was the basic controversy between you and me. Now, you see, you are proving that the Ministry has the capacity and that it can do the jobs of the mall for the development of trade, and here you are looking, insisting that this centre is formed, and we ask you – is it expensive for the state, and we are convinced that it is expensive for the state. Can the Ministry do it? Okay, here's what you wrote. Don't worry about budget spending at all. You wrote that the Ministry can do it. If the Ministry can work, then why would he need that center? We need the center to hire new people, party personnel, probably DS, to get paid, someone to do something, it's completely unnecessary. That's the point, so when we point out one thing you stubbornly refuse to accept what's completely realistic and what's perfectly normal. I'm simply entering a sphere of decency for the justifiable criticism we're giving. Speaking of decency, this topic seems to me to be opened by the President of the Republic saying what's decent, what's rude. Who's rudely rich, and who's decently poor. Who gives rude optimistic prognosis, and what is polite? These are the topics that need to be treated by this law. We prove something to you, you reject the amendment because it destroys the concept of the law. It really doesn't make sense. Accept this amendment. Did you write that the Ministry can do these jobs? That's what you wrote, that's who wrote the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-20-0.u43314	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrievich. Two and a half minutes from the time of the parliamentary group. The 79th Amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. There's no answer for word. National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted to the 81st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you, Mr. Stevanovic. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the final word? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have done so, the National Assembly will decide in voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Today's work is over. Thank you all for your patience and your cooperation. We will continue tomorrow, on Wednesday 21 July 2010 at 10:00 hours of discussion of the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Transport Safety Act. Good night.
