ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40239	I hope, despite the fact that there aren't many MPs in this room, that in this peace, all the problems of one law, i.e. the amendments and additions that have been delivered to us on all sides, but which really represents one, not a hyperbole, revolutionary move by the ruling majority, which is abolished by the financing of the Public Enterprise...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40240	Gentlemen, since we are indeed in a significant number, please just a little quieter. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40241	They repeat what may have been covered by your voice or warning. Act on amending and supplementing the Law only on two pages given, in two articles, in Art. 4th and 5th, they represent a revolutionary change in the functioning of Serbia's economic system. In Article 5, you abolish the financing of the Public Enterprise, the Official Messenger, by prohibiting him from charging all acts published by the authorities and organisations, which also means agencies that don't even give money to the Republic budget, but by holding a monopoly over the resources of this country, it means that you release public agencies to pay for the publication of acts and regulations, and on the other hand, you do not adopt an amendment that the SNS has submitted – which you are just trying to control before the publication of acts and banisters, without an apology to the expression, which they publish in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia. So what's inconspicuous is given as a Article 5. The bill on amendments and additions to the Law, which states that Article 11, in addition to "acts", the words "body and organisation" are added – deleted, that means the following. That the Public Enterprise will be able to charge only ads from now on and that citizens may ask – that the Public Enterprise of Elektroprivreda ceases one group of citizens, for example, to charge electricity because it is a kind of public action, and by that analogy, by someone's decision, by someone's well-meaning or understanding of rights and justice, it can be applied. Do you think that the official messenger, as a public firm, should cover, for example, hundreds of pages of regulations, such as the Civil Aviation Directorate, the cost of publishing these regulations by publishing an ad, up to some time from public procurement, which you otherwise allow to be subject to significant scope and extent of violation? Soon they will be on the public portal, and they too will not be able to charge as ads that will be its source of income after the entry into force of this law. Has anyone, Mr. Minister, read Article 5 and realized that a state that has its own ballot can publish its laws without paying for it, but to extend it – and to all bodies and organisations, and I deliberately point out agencies, because it is the subject of an amendment, which frees these payments to publish its acts? Is this a struggle for even greater income to agencies that are otherwise not controlled by the state, which are not under the control of the Republic budget to the greatest extent, especially the one I'm talking about, which in number 14 has published on hundreds of pages of regulations that are not really? I'll talk about it separately. They're free of costs, which they don't really show anyone, except maybe someone who's extra-institutionally powerful to control. Did someone really want to shut down the Official Messenger or turn it into a publishing company of some special other texts, making up for the costs of printing laws, regulations, acts, international contracts, etc.? I'd like you to answer that question. I'm going to tell you that I've been looking forward to this debate to repeat a story that didn't come across an echo in public, such as an insult to some who don't appreciate this home enough, believing that they can, by the law of the executive authorities, behave as they please. I ask the public to hear that the Civil Aviation Directorate, who self-proclaimed himself a supervisory body, and when I say self-proclaimed, ask the public to look at the "Official Messenger" No. 30, since 25 March 2008, where the decision was made, is on page 14, determining the control body of the Republic of Serbia for the area of air navigation. Mr. Minister, in making this decision, among other things, page 14 states that the Board of Directors declares itself a supervisory body on the basis of, among other things, Article 22. Ministry Act, Official Messenger No. 43/2007. "The Official Messenger" No. 43 from 2007 on page 3 under Article 22, do you know what he's talking about: the Ministry of Diaspora and its responsibilities. So the official messenger has announced that the Civil Aviation Directorate has declared itself a supervisory body by decision of the Council, not a government, not a state body, and, among other things, on the basis of the authority of the Ministry of Diaspora. Do you hear me well? Do you know that there are these official messengers I'm talking about? Do you know how many basics there are? D-directory and d-diaspora, maybe it binds them. The error was never corrected, the error was not. This is an attempt to humiliate the public by being able to publish anything in the Messenger. It's not the jurisdiction and responsibility of the official messenger, and we're asking for an amendment. We ask that the Legislative Secretariat check every act before publication, check its compliance with the Constitution, the laws and other regulations and the acts concerning the laws adopted here. Just because someone's trying to beat me with noise in the O.R., believe me, I don't mind. Because I seem angry, it's because of the noise I hear and the noise that bothers me, and the citizens can't hear it. I repeat that the government, I am not interested in what composition and which, but the government representing the Republic of Serbia, has allowed itself the confusion that in the "officer" allows self-proclaiming of a single supervisory body, which today collects billions of euros in revenue from what is called the state monopoly, which I am talking about several months ago, but it is not a subject of public interest under question, because someone does not allow real questions to be opened in this country. The thing goes on. Since the government can do this unpunishedly and since the government has not even stood behind that council representing five people, five ministers, it does not matter whether these are in the Council today in conflict of interest, and they are, and it does not matter that they have made such an illegal decision in the past, it is important that this Directorate continues to publish hundreds of pages of regulations that are actually just a translation of the rules applied by the EU, whose we are not even an associated member. A few pearls just to get it out. Part of those regulations published in Official Messenger number 14, even 15 new regulations, for which you are now asking not to be paid when published in the Official Messenger, I am very interested in what you base such a decision, part of these regulations prescribes the way the European Air Safety Agency works. Such rules, my lords, if you didn't know, and I believe the public knows, can only be brought by the authorities of the EU or by the authorities of the European Agency. Don't make us look ridiculous in front of the world. Don't let under the story of more important things you humiliate us in front of Europe for which we all stand. I dared to promote a slogan for Europe in Serbia. Yes, we Europe belong geographically and no one can say that we are not part of Europe, but we do not need to go to Europe to behave seriously and responsibly. This home, this law, the rules of this directorate, the basis for their publication, the abolition of the funding of the "officer" in this way are Europe in Serbia, which you do not advocate for your actions. For you, Europe in Serbia is a game of words. For the public and for the citizens, these are standards of decent life, orderly states and systems in which this could not happen, what is happening to us. If anyone used this slogan before us, it doesn't matter at all. Says the one who said it first, told everyone. That's what wise men say. But in this country, the government dared, for example, to promote in Nis the resettlement of the Development Fund as its own idea, thinking that no one knows that the SNS in Kragujevac last year promoted the project "Let's Return Life to Serbia", with the idea that authorities, organisations and ministries move into less developed parts of Serbia to speed up life in these and such environments, because we are experiencing regional development. So, on what I'm saying to you about the amendment that you're refusing, where the Legislator's Secretariat has to control constitutionality, legality and founding, not only the material that's being published, but also the bodies that put out their acts, you're saying you're not interested in order. That's the difference between us quality and important. By having this article of the 5th skillfully dragged aside from paying for what they publish in the Official Messenger, what are you talking about? If you didn't care to establish control of money, because if you cared about establishing control of money, you would be engaged in corruption in action, and not in words, and you wouldn't only be worried about giving away secrets that concern the state, and they're threatening it if they give up, and it's about security, but I'm asking you to keep in mind that the most important secret for the citizens of Serbia is that money abuse, silence, abuse or non-disclosure of the issues that are being stamped by the real culprits, real channels and ways and ways that money can be misused. By not charging for the publication of acts and regulations, you allow these agencies to be states in the country. Because they are not in the consolidated account of the vault and in the insight of the finance minister, you accept that you have some indirect, I suppose, interest, because that government would deny its powers to control all public funds, if it is not represented by individuals who either do not understand it or do not want to see it? On the other hand, trying to justify this in some way, which can't be called an excuse, not by making excuses, because there's no excuse, you're actually letting us all know that you don't respect citizens who have to inform about these laws, because why didn't you say so – we're going to share a free "Official Messenger" to see what we're doing, if you let agencies not pay what they publish in the messengers? What's the power for? Who do we want well? What's the general interest? Citizens to know what the state is doing, what acts it brings, what regulations you regulate, how many acts of borrowing have been published, all where it is placed, how many councils it is doing parallel to the ministries, how many of the same people are sitting in ten organs. If they were superhumans, and that superhuman of Nieah, they would not have been able to achieve it. Let's give the citizens a free official messenger. Please, what is called destroying the "Official Messenger" and what is called allowing agencies to continue with illegal behaviour simply abolishing the fact that you will delete Article 5, perhaps adopt someone's second amendment and adopt the SNS amendment to Article 4, where someone who receives a salary for it is obliged to verify that the person who publishes a certain act is in charge of it, whether this act is legal and justified in the positive regulations of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40242	Mr. Milan Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40243	I tried to follow, but I couldn't keep up with everything you said. It's political, like before the election, like we're at a rally, so what happened, it's been said, it's been 15 minutes. This amendment you've put on Article 4, it just can't be implemented, there's no need for that. You probably know, I don't believe that you don't know, and if you don't know, then it's, I'd say, even worse, that all this has already been regulated by the Public Agency Act and the State Administration Act. Every act, we've written to you, delivered it, and you've seen it, goes through the proper procedure, because they monitor the work of those who publish acts. What could the Legislative Secretariat – stop a sublegal act? Based on what authority? How can an act be brought into force before it can be shot down? It can be shot down by the government stopping execution and sending it to the Constitutional Court. Who's in charge of suggesting that? It's the department's jurisdiction that's being followed by the detour. So your amendment simply has nothing to do with our system, it's impossible to put it in the system. Normally, politics and political speech are one thing. As for the publication of acts and so far the official interpretation of the Legislative Secretariat has been that acts that must be published because it is a legal obligation cannot be charged. So, the rule that will be passed by some public authority holder, as a transfer of the work of the government's authority, cannot be charged. And so far, it's been an official interpretation. There are such interpretations of dozens, hundreds, whenever any of them appear. What does it have to do with public agencies and a political story? I don't know. Rich people get it. I just don't know what to say. I know you can do 20, 30 minutes in continuity to cover 64 topics, but as far as your amendment is concerned, there's no way. And you, if you were in power, you would never accept it, but it served you well to have a 15-minute monologue here, who, I say again, looked like everything but an explanation of this amendment, at least as far as I could understand. Maybe someone understood more, but I failed, I don't have the capacity to understand such a broad and deep discussion as you did.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40244	Mrs Tabakovic, since the time of the parliamentary group, you have only one minute left, as an authorised representative, and you can use it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40245	I think I have a full right to the replica, but it doesn't matter, I'll use the time of the parliamentary group. Mr. Markovic, the competent ministers, when you say that the Public Agency Act regulates it, you mean that this law cannot be changed, and it is so widely regulated that you as a lawyer would have to know that the law was controversial even when it regulated the establishment of two basic agencies: about energy and about the broadcasting agency. If you don't know, somebody read it to you and tell you. There are articles of excellent law enforcement. I'll give it to you after the debate. A law that can't change, and it's not good, and it doesn't help control money, and you make that control even more vague, invisible citizens and even more protected by agencies, who doesn't understand? Only one whose interest and position blinds the view. So the Constitution needs a two-thirds majority to change. For the Law on Public Agencys, if it prevents you from letting agencies do what is wrong, and it is not good because they are not controlled, because 1.3 billion euros is outside of regular flows, in terms of not gray, but uncontrollable by the government, which gives public authority to those agencies. You're telling me you don't understand that, for example. You as a parent have no right to prescribe rules of conduct or to prescribe them, so when it does not respect them, you give it an even greater freedom, making it someone who is not ready to fit in with society and who literally endangers the freedom of others with his freedom. The greatest freedom of men is to live decently. It's not politics, it's the purpose of the government, that there is, that it works, that it makes laws to live better. So none of us here are to prove how smart he is, to say, how much he wants to demean or anything like that. The purpose of the state's existence is to arrange the lives of citizens, to allow them to live better. This law doesn't do that. These amendments and additions to the law introduce chaos, allow for what is not right to be worse. I don't know how much easier to explain to you by telling you that you're wrong that if the Law on Public Agencys is wrong, it needs to be changed, but that law allowed even public service to say – you have to provide me with a subscription, and I can deal with commercial affairs, get into the market for some other income. This is the most painful, principledial system issue of functioning and control of the state and its financial flows, by not allowing money to be controlled, and besides, you allow it not to be paid, it is not true that it is not paid, until yesterday it was paid. You know how many letters you got from the official messenger, who warned you this wasn't a good time. Why don't you explain to the citizens why you don't want to spare the agencies, which there are countless, who do the ministry's work, instead of you doing those jobs, the costs that are regular? Can I, as a citizen, publish anything without paying for it? I can't, sir, but when my account was blocked because I have to pay for receiving over one bank, even though my constitutional right to receive wherever I want, it was impossible to publish my wife's obituary in time, because someone understands the right to direct my money flows wherever he wants. Mr. Markovic, don't try to smooth a big deal with your humor. The big thing is that everything has to be published, that what the service has to be paid for, because when I don't pay toll as an MP on a toll ramp, the state has to refund it today and tomorrow to the one who collects the toll. And you as a state, so as not to publish hundreds of pages of Messengers or any official list, what kind of world practice, don't mention it, they all pay their public companies who publish the messages. So, in order for everyone to focus on costs and not publish thousands of pages of unnecessary regulations and not have 150 members of the law but to have 15, but clear and not those where the sublaw goes, which you say, there is no law to verify. What are you? Where is the power of government? Don't do that. The committees here have the right to verify the constitutionality and legality of some part of the law. Not using it, that's a very special question. What's the Legislative Committee doing? He even published the rules on how to pass the law, and you're telling me you don't have a basis in the government. Anything that's wrong, change it. What you bring, we respect. You're teaching citizens order, because it's Europe in Serbia. Don't talk about countless agencies or a thrifty government being a story, go along which way the citizens will be happy to follow you. Maybe I could say that to some incomprehensible dictionary. The fact that he looks like a political, sorry, legislative body is made up of political parties, the government is made up of representatives of political parties. And what someone is trying to do is make this home unworthy and turn it into an organ, and I'm going to tell you that some of you in the government liked my joke that I made at the pay phone so that it would be most appropriate for the government to send its acts directly to the Official Messenger without passing this home here, from whom you want to build a certification facility. Don't humiliate us so much, because citizens can read this, these citizens can understand, even though you're being ignorant here, you know the weight of the words I say.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40246	Mr. Minister, come in. Mr. Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40247	There's no need for me to go further. Just for the sake of the public, everything I'm going to say to Mrs. Tabakovic is well aware. Mrs. Tabakovic and SNS are proposing, the first thing about money is that those who are legally obliged to publish their general act in the Official Messenger have to pay for it. I'm telling you, that can't be the principle. If they are to publish a commercial one, something that is not legally prescribed, they will pay for it, but if they want to publish what they are prescribed for, they do not pay it, Mrs Tabakovic, anywhere in the world, so neither in Serbia. I cannot legally oblige you to publish your general act, because it is for the sake of the public, and not for your sake, because it is not charged even when the ministry announces, the ministry does not pay, nor when the Government publishes, nor when the National Assembly publishes, is not paid. They have public authority, they're not themselves, they're living and there's enough of themselves. They are the owners of public authority and in this function publish general acts. It has been the position of our Legislative Secretariat so far, and it has now been translated into law. No one's ever written to us alive. I don't know where you got the information. We have an official messenger's director for this bill and we have a positive opinion. No one has ever written any letters alive. I didn't win this case. I don't know how you got those letters, how do you know someone was writing and someone was complaining? As far as the Legislative Secretariat is concerned, after the adoption of the act, whether it is in accordance with the law, I am telling you that this, Mrs Tabakovic, has nothing to do with our legal system. How can I say this without being rude? It has absolutely nothing to do with our legal system. Equalization of the National Assembly Committee with the Legislative Secretariat, I must tell you, Mrs. Tabakovic, is definitely a ignorance of our system. Excuse me, please, you're an economist, I don't know, with so much authority talking about things you really don't know about, I think, nothing at all. What does the Secretariat of Law have to do with it, what authority does the Secretariat of Law have to do with proceedings before the Constitutional Court, suspend acts of enforcement, etc? Do you even know what the Legislative Secretariat is? I'd like you to tell us in your first sentence what the Legislative Secretariat is here. I'm not going to tell you what the Legislative Secretariat is. I don't mind, I'll listen all day, but I love listening to you talk about what your matter is. Your matter is the Public Agency Act. The public agency, Article 43, in order for the public to know that this is already governed by the laws, should know the following – the public agency is obliged to pre-publish the provisions of the ministry, in which the works of the public agency, the opinion on constitutionality and legality of the rules are in place, and the ministry is obliged to, if it does not consider that it is in conformity with the law and the Constitution to suspend from enforcement, go to the Constitutional Court, etc., there are a number of other things, if the entrusted business can take over it for 60 days. It's all worked out in the State Administration Act, on the one hand, in the Public Agency Act. There's absolutely no dilemma. Now you've come up with the idea – no, let the Secretariat for legislation check it out, which has no law-founded authority to verify it. Please begin your discussion by at least telling you what the Legislative Secretariat is. It's my request to you, when you speak so authoritatively about a substance that seems not to be close to you, but it's so much of your side that you can't connect the elements.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40248	Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40249	Known manner, when you don't have an answer to the remark, the fact, you go into something that might be insulting. You know, I remember one long ago, smart people say – I don't care whose eyes are gonna cry for me, so what you're saying about my expertise isn't my problem. Both you and I listen to lawyers and economists and citizens of Serbia. What I'm trying to say to you is, the public knows, I've been a minister for two and a half years and I know perfectly well what the Legislative Secretariat is. In time, more seriously, no draft law could have been applied without the involvement of senior experts from the Legislative Secretariat, as the law requires the ministers to adopt regulations and to ensure that authorities and organisations taking over certain responsibilities, carry out certain tasks, carry out certain tasks and adopt regulations. What do you explain that the Civil Aviation Directorate, as someone not controlled by the Government in the acquisition and availability of money, is the regulation to bring where to the authority of the Diaspora Ministry? Explain that to me. Your attempt to defend the indefensible value of loyalty to the team you're working on. That's not the problem. I respect that, but you can't convince the public that what is passed as a rule by a certain council, I am speaking directly about the Civil Aviation Directorate's Council, which has self-proclaimed itself to the supervisory authorities, whether or not it was the government's decision. Why didn't he call the government? Can any member of the board of directors appointed by the Government in an organ, I'm talking about analogy, and you rightly know what analogy is, and since you don't know, economists who end economic college learn a good part of the right from basic sources of law to international law, so I'm informing you about that fact, you should know that this man who goes to the board of directors and makes an important decision, such as the application of a rule, which produces for some of the costs of some service, especially in flight control and the rest, must have a government manual. These people are not private individuals, although some of them often act as individuals, and in fact they should represent the government. Don't tell me there's no connection between the government and you're rerouting me to correct my mistakes by pointing it to constitutionality. That doesn't add up at all at this point. Errors should be eliminated at the beginning, where you can see they appear, and there's such a mistake. In order not to appear, the Legislative Secretariat, whose job it is, must check what his job is, and not that in the Constitutional Court, and you have, Mr. Minister, not only have you informed about the publication of these regulations, the procedure at the Constitutional Court regarding the illegality of the publication of the rules, not only in terms of form, but in essence. Please, when you realize that there is a problem, such an obvious, illegality in conduct, when the amendment is so clear, where I say - you can't let the agencies, because it says, and other bodies and organizations, if the law commits them to it, you can't defend them. You protect them, but you can't legally defend them, either I'm a lawyer, an economist, a simple worker who didn't have a day of school, here is human logic, and God has my knowledge, he has information, and as you can see, he has documentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40250	Mr. Secretary has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40251	Since you didn't want to say it, I'll tell you. The Legislative Secretariat is a special organisation headed by the Director as a civil servant who participates in the preparation of the regulations, with the Ministry Act being entrusted to one part of the regulations, i.e. to be the holder of certain laws. It is the beginning and end of the Secretariat for Law. He doesn't go any further, nor does he come any closer. That's what the Legislative Secretariat does. Following the adoption of the rules, whatever the case, the procedure relating to this regulation is exclusively regulated by the Constitutional Court Act and by the powers of the entities, public entities and private entities to initiate appropriate proceedings relating to the procedure. It's primarily a procedure for assessing legality and constitutionality. Exceptionally, in one small part, when it comes to agreeing with sublaws, there is the possibility of the functioning of the ministries themselves, without the Constitutional Court, of public authorities and in one part of the system of local self-government, so far the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court has been envisaged, which, following the amendments to the laws that we have now passed to the Administrative Court. After the adoption of the act, until its publication, before the entry into force, there is no possibility of the operation of the Legislative Secretariat, nor is it possible in our legal order which has in this way regulated constitutionality and legality, to introduce one special organisation which would now appreciate, practical, legality of acts of another special organisation, authorities, public agencies, any public authority holder, local self-government, tomorrow notary, as it will be some public authority holder or so. In our legal system, I would say now mathematically, 99.9% is always strictly judicial jurisdiction after the adoption of the act. This would mean, in particular, when it comes to the Assembly, that the Assembly adopts a law, and then the Committee of the National Assembly decides that the law will not be published. That would be roughly analogy, even if that board had more rights, let's say, if someone thought it was the right thing to do. Not so, but when the National Assembly adopts a law, a procedure can be initiated to assess its constitutionality before the Constitutional Court, before its entry into force. It's settled by the Constitutional Court Act. So I don't want to spread the story here. You've mentioned tolls here, you've mentioned all sorts of things that, I suppose, torture us all in one way or another. You mentioned this Civil Aviation Directorate, which is an objectively big problem in our legal system, because no one can understand it alive. The Ministry of Infrastructure is competent to address the problem. We're talking about the publication of acts here, Mrs. Tabakovic, and you can't do one anomaly that you presented, which I can trust you to believe is true and I don't have to, I simply believe that you've tried to get to that data, you can't ask based on that anomaly, if what you said is true, even though I'm saying it's some "sui generis", an organ that no one can define so far, because it's the consequence of crossing the federal level to a republican level, you can't ask us to change our law on the publication of acts and that we're practically destroying the system that we have now. We give one special organization one authority that absolutely cannot. Do you know how unnatural it is for her to have that authority? I just can't describe it. I'm trying again, it's not even the board of the National Assembly that has it. It is, Mrs Tabakovic, as if some secretariat in the National Assembly had the authority to decide that the law adopted by this assembly, before it was published, would not be published. It just doesn't work that way. There are authorities who are authorized and the procedure is before the Constitutional Court. There's the beginning and the end of every story. Of course, when dealings are entrusted, and sublegal acts are passed in the area of entrusted transactions, then the procedure is in the hands of the authorities of the state administration, whose entrusted business is legally entrusted to someone else to work. Since the Legislative Secretariat isn't even that, he doesn't have any of his jobs as a trusted job, he can't do it at all. He can't do any of his work, because he doesn't have a confidential job. Trusted work we have as a ministry, he can't have. Therefore, I will repeat again, whoever has the authority of public authority must obtain an opinion from the competent ministry on constitutionality and legality before it is announced. It can't be any different. It's just impossible. If the ministry gets that, so they doubt what it is, the ministry can turn around and ask the secretariat to see if it's okay or wrong, and then, in accordance with the law, it initiates further proceedings. But the Ministry. They don't have anything to do with it. It's on their forehead, I repeat, a civil servant in position. They're not the ones who can do it, because they don't have the capacity to do it, and they're not the judicial authority. They are, in my opinion, somewhat closer to the government service than even a special organization. They look more like government service to me. That they do not have those powers under the Ministry Act, let's say, this law is being prepared by the Ministry of State Administration, that it is not in the jurisdiction of the Secretariat of Law, because it is abnormally increased in one period the role of the Secretariat of Law during the time of the Director being Mr Balinovac, while the Ministry of State has been dealing with other affairs, then an unnatural part of the ministry's jurisdiction has been transferred to the Secretariat. The Secretariat, in fact, in my opinion, could even be a service. Realistically, its legal nature is identical to the legal nature of each government service, which is to serve the ministries, special organisations and authorities of the administration as part of the ministry with their knowledge in a particular area. Here, specifically in the area of compliance of the regulations with the system of regulations that you propose in the system. I can't believe this is still controversial. Believe me, I can't believe it. I just don't know if I should answer my word anymore. I'm only gonna get back to you because you're constantly reporting for a word and so authoritatively speaking about it, and you were a minister. Being a minister, that's nice. You've been Minister of Economic Resor, I presume. You don't know this matter. This is the State Administration Act. It's a whole other topic. I want to tell you honestly what's the matter, I think you know it, but that you used this to talk about public agencies. Public agencies are a matter for the other ministry. I don't know what you're talking about here, we're talking about the law on the publication of acts, and you want to talk about the Public Agency Act, some other topic. I'm telling you, this can't go any other way. In our legal system, he can't. The scandal would be one service, now I'm speaking the service, not in the legal sense of words, but in order to make it clear to people, to empower the service to, practically, suspend the acts of the authorities of the state administration. That would be a scandal. Accepting your amendment would be, simply, unnatural. One government service to decide to suspend the execution of the Ministry's act, what would that be like? Then why don't you bring it into the Law on the National Assembly to suspend the law before it enters into force and say – you can't, Mr. Odalovic wants to send, no, no, give us, Mr. Odalovic, to see if it's in accordance with the Constitution and the law. What would that look like? You have a previous procedure, you have a Committee on Constitutional Affairs, for legislation, through which it is being implemented and implemented, as we have a previous procedure in the Government, in which the Secretariat for Law participates, but in the previous procedure. It is not possible for the Secretariat to take part in the subsequent procedure. It's, again, impossible and unnatural. I don't argue there's an anomaly, I've heard a lot about this directorate, from pay issues and beyond. I've heard a lot about flight control, etc. It's the department's jurisdiction to handle it. I don't know why you've just found this topic and me to deal with it. Here your amendment just can't go like that. If you wanted to expose that problem, you could have, but without telling us whether or not we know something and have any intentions, that the agencies don't know what we're doing or don't do. We have no intention, especially not to the public agencies. I've got some attitude about public agencies that's pretty critical. Public agencies are public agencies, but we cannot tell the public agency – pay the publication of what the law established as your obligation. That doesn't make sense. Mrs. Tabakovic, we can't do that. It has been an attitude so far, and will be a position in the future, because it works in the framework of public authority. When he wants to publish something out of it, he's gonna pay, like he's gonna pay everyone else. She can publish a thousand things to others, but the regulations she makes under public authority, as a trusted job, we can't charge her. After all, why don't you make a deal, and then she can send them back to the ministry, so the ministry can write a rulebook, publish it, then come back for free. So it's not the way. I'm telling you again, I don't know where you got the information. We have the opinion of the official messenger company. They didn't make any remarks. I know the director himself, and he could have said it orally if he had any objections. I don't know what letters they wrote. Maybe they're to you, nobody really is to us. I asked a colleague of the law, no one was alive writing a letter. I don't know what you're talking about, really, unless it was a little bit to support the jewelry and support the discussion. In the end, public enterprises aren't here to make a profit. That's what you and I know. It is not the public firm's goal of gaining profits, because if it were the goal, Belgrade Airport could immediately raise its taxes 800 times and earn profits. It's not a public firm that's here to make a profit. Public enterprises, first and foremost, are carrying out a measure of general interest and this is the first and primary objective of the public enterprise. There's no need, fellow, to be baptized. That, I mean, says the first three members of the law. As are the utility companies to work at the bar. Public enterprises do it together. Public enterprises carry out activities of general interest, because that's different, Mrs. Tabakovic, you've had ties to some public enterprises, you've worked, say, in the post office or you've had connections. Why, say, would the Post Office keep an open mail in Bear? Tell me, a fellow who gestures so well, why would the Post Office keep an open mail in Medvedja or in the Shop? Give me an economic interest, if you're right, that a public firm serves to earn profits. So the Law on Public Enterprises is clear. The public company is there to carry out activities of general interest and profit is not the primary in the work of a public firm, because if it were the primary, PTT Serbia would close 60% of the post office, because there is no interest in keeping workers in the Store, paying electricity, the company, I don't know what is paid, rooms, this, what, that exactly what you want to say to me right now, and you want to tell the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40252	Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic. You're not finished.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40253	You're a folk MP, and you can normally discuss it the way you want to, but I don't want the public to think that here, as you said, we're working with some intentions, that I don't know what we're doing by not paying for the publication of some acts that haven't been paid by those who've asked the Secretariat for legislation. And so far, they haven't paid for it, so neither in the future, nor in the future, I want a show to be created here that you know everything, and we don't know anything, so you're going to be giving us lessons here for 15 minutes in the first show, 12 minutes in the second exhibition. Well done, but I'm just saying I don't agree to it, except I'd agree to talk to you about the economy, but in the matter we're dealing with here, you're just giving us lessons just doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40254	The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40255	You don't give me the right to a replica, even though you know I do, which is why I'm not asking for the right to a replica, but to start with this last thing you said. You'd talk to me about the economy as a lawyer, and you wouldn't give me the right as an MP to talk about a law that's on the agenda. Let's start with this last thing you said - public enterprises aren't there to generate income. Mr. Markovicu, if no one told you, the previous Law on Public Enterprises and Businesses dealing with activity of general interest was done by a group of excellent lawyers and ministers, and I was involved in the work of the law. It wasn't bad, take it and read it. Public enterprises are not there to create losses, but they are not the subject of public enterprises. Here we are talking about the Public Enterprise "The Official Messenger", which is published by the regulations and which you leave without income by now reading from your bill proposal, page 2 of the reasoning, second paragraph, means, what you have sent us – the bill provides for, by amending a valid Article 11, that for publishing all acts, I read the proposal to all MPs, to publish all acts (no matter what the body or organisation is the bearer of acts) means, and public agencies and others, not public enterprises, there are none, whose publication in the "Official Messenger" provided for by law, pays compensation. So, so far, it's been paid, and from now on it won't be paid. Who do you assure that it's nowhere, that it's never been a practice? Just count on me to be someone who listens carefully and who won't budge easily until his microphone is turned off. But the arguments come out, and the truth can be seen, as much as you're trying to blur it out. The bill also provides for the placing outside the law on the publication of federal laws, other rules, etc., which is undeniable. But you're bringing in the paper that all acts are being published, so the rules and the rest that come out of the law, and you said yourself, are being prepared by the Secretariat for Law. So you've answered my question, the importance of the Legislative Secretariat to participate in making it is to worry about legality, and I'm telling you that the agencies that at the first moment they form are on the budget, so they get out of the budget, so they charge themselves to the citizens, not as much as they cover costs, but by creating enormous profits because they have a monopoly. Can't have one confirmation in that area issued by the Directorate or the Flight Control Agency to go citizen or foreign investor anywhere but to them. So, on the basis of the monopoly, they don't set prices for cost-covering, so they do business without profit, as you say rightly, but they earn enormous profits, so we've had affairs as much as anyone has earned, paid, and the dinar doesn't pay in the budget. That's what I'm worried about, and I want to find out this part of the amendment that you who propose laws don't allow illegality in some later part until the publication because - what would cost me a trial, Mr. Minister? What, am I supposed to organize a fire department, make it important that I start a fire somewhere? That's what it looks like. So we're pushing for a peaceful settlement of labour disputes to relieve the courts, and you're here to point out when inconsistencies and illegalities happen, even funny by making an analogy that when the Assembly adopts the law, because only the government is proposing laws here, only the government is proposing laws, I repeat, in which the Secretariat for legislation participates, so who can we challenge as some committee or anything? Don't try to offend the objections I make because, Mr. Minister, they didn't tell you, in the Constitution of Serbia, that these bodies that are controversial not to me, Serbian citizens, are holders of public authority on behalf of the state, and you as such cannot pet and watch over the damages of citizens and also to the harm of the government. Aren't you interested in establishing legal control over them, and I tell you what they publish? They translate the rules adopted by the EU and the European Agency, not them. Only translations and hundreds of pages publish. That official messenger should cover the costs of that press, those hundreds of pages, the hours of work of those workers. I'm not asking you to provide them with a profit. Believe me, I don't care what a wonderful man I've known for a long time is running right now, and a member of the DS doesn't matter at all. I'm worried about the institutions, the collapse of institutions, the system that you want to scratch a little bit here, that's where you bite that cookie, so tomorrow we have a problem like the one we have with business banks, with contributions because we destroyed the SDK. Don't tell me it's a spread of the subject, it's principles we can't repeat as mistakes that make our lives worse. I really don't want to answer it anymore. You have defended my amendment by saying that legislation is an obligation to participate in law-making. You're the ones who have to control the council members and the authorities sitting in those agencies, whether or not you're controlling them, and we have no insight, that's a special question. But also our obligation, Madam President, that we do not have a plenary session through the Rules of Procedure regulated reports or a Securities Commission, or agencies, we get them and agree and in this way we do not even get to talk about them, but it is the work of all of us, as a supervisory authority, of these executive authorities, but it is, above all, a moment where we cannot allow where we can arrange a system of Europeans, to arrange it. I thank you for all the praises you've given me, Mr. Minister, and please, you're here today, I haven't come to you, it could have been that the minister who really has nothing to do with this matter is here defending this law because, unfortunately, it's a common practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40256	Mr. Minister, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40257	Mrs. Tabakovic, I want you to pick up. I want you to answer because I want to clear this up to the end, so we don't spread the subject. So let's start over again. That sounded nice the first 15 minutes, but let's see. So, you're asking that the Secretariat of legislation, after the adoption of the act, and before the entry into force, or before the publication, which is a condition for entry into force, has the authority to practically postpone that entry into force. I repeat, the Legislative Secretariat is something that will be closest to our citizens if I say - the most ordinary service, and as a simple service, is not authorized and cannot be authorized to postpone the acts of the authorities of the state administration or public agencies, i.e. public authorities. At the head of the Secretariat is a state official who participates in the previous procedure, which is the preparation of acts. Who's in charge, and why are we refusing your amendment? So the first reason is that one service can't do it because, I say again, then the service here, the Secretariat in the National Assembly, and it's not a funny analogy at all, it's completely accurate, it can take and say – it's nice that the National Assembly adopted it, but Mr. Odalović, we don't agree that you publish it, we don't think it's in accordance with the Constitution. So, it's your amendment, Mrs. Tabakovic, without the elaborate procedure going on. So it's impossible to accept. He says, "Well, come on, what is the matter with you?" On the contrary, I am telling you that the Secretariat as a kind of service, although they will be a little offended but are essentially a service, participates in the previous preparation, as the committees of the National Assembly participate here before the law comes to the National Assembly. It's literally identical. They need their consent to come, say, to the government, so that a rule can be adopted, etc. Now, I keep saying, this is settled by other laws. When it comes to public authorities under the ministry or in the work of the departments, they are required to send the ministry before publication, to see if the ministry is in accordance with the Constitution and the law, and the ministry can use this service to help them, if necessary. Although most often, it is important to know, the Legislative Secretariat has experts from different areas that sit in one place and cross- know-how when a regulation comes. That's why they have this previous function. Ministrys always have experts in the area, since rules apply to these areas. It's usually the ministry itself who can answer that. Why is this arranged like this? Because the ministries are authorized to ask the government to suspend its execution and initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court. It was arranged by our constitution, which we all voted for, and it's so normal, naturally, celery, civilized. That's how it is, I mean, everywhere. I don't know where else. Of course, after publication, other subjects can look for it. It is arranged for the National Assembly by, I don't know, a third of the MPs, I've forgotten a little, may request before the entry into force to initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court, etc. The second law which resolves this is the Law on Public Agencys, which states that the Agency, in Article 43, is obliged to pre-publish the provisions of the ministry in which the Agency's business is part of the opinion on the constitutionality and legality of the rules, etc., and the ministry will again be able, in accordance with the powers, to initiate the appropriate procedure and to prevent the entry into force of that act. You're talking to me constantly about a situation involving one ministry, one organ. We can't defend an amendment that can't get into our system. The amendment cannot enter our system. The government's service cannot suspend the authorities of the state administration, the public authorities of law enforcement. He can't. I don't know how to say that. I don't know how to explain it anymore. That's impossible. One thing I fully agree with you. The big problem is biting the legal order. Believe me, the adoption of your amendment would bite the legal order, because it would introduce something that is not in line with our legal order. It would introduce the authority of one service, or special organization, that does not belong to it by the nature of that body. It would open a dangerous precedent and put a special organization above the government's authority, which is impossible, which destroys the state's hierarchy. You're worried about the official messenger. Why, Mrs. Tabakovic, in this discussion would I trust you if the Director of the Official Messenger and the Official Messenger did not say this would destabilise their work? The most honest, no offense, how do you know it will destabilise their business, and they don't know it. So they worry, believe me, in public enterprises, you care about your incomes like they're going to be in that company for 100 years, like they're going to leave their grandkids behind? When you touch their income, they want to dig your eyes out. I highly doubt that the official messenger would allow something like this to go down and not turn around if this was something that was going to shake the funding system. They have publishing work, publications. They can charge for all the other stuff. Our "racio legion" is just that when you make a commitment to someone's law to something that they perform as an perpetrator of public authority, you can't charge them for publication. The Legislative Secretariat claims to me that they have dozens of opinions that they have given in this direction in previous years, independent of the government in power, our government, the second government. Every government is our government. So, independently of which is the government, which is its personal composition, the Secretariat has been giving these opinions for a long time. The other day they were from the Anti-Corruption Agency at the Legislative Secretariat. They also asked for an opinion – are they obliged to pay for publishing their acts in "The Official Messenger"? They asked the same question. The position of the legislation was the same as what we are saying now, that they should not pay for publishing their acts in the Official Messenger. The official messenger is a public company that has its own way of funding and believe them, they're doing well. I don't care about them at all. This isn't something that's going to cause them any business problems, but this is a principled attitude. My belief is that this is a principled attitude. We can't impose a law on public authority holders and then charge them for what they're supposed to do, which is to make their acts available to the public, regulations that we all have to act on. We don't pay either, I repeat. The National Assembly doesn't pay either. Neither the government pays nor the ministry. No one pays who does it in that function. But if I want to answer as a ministry, then I'll pay. Do you understand? Let's just say, we're going to be adverting very soon where we're going to list all the deleted parties for legal certainty that people know, 500 and some deleted parties, etc. We're going to make an ad, and we're going to pay for it wherever we give it, and the official messenger. Of course, by means of public information, we will certainly pay. I'm still ready, too, me too. As long as it takes to be here alone.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40258	Mrs. Tabakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40259	Just a few more words. Your attempt to get the state out of her jurisdiction is not good, not at this time, not in the long term, not in general, not in your own right now as authorities, not in us who claim to come to power. No matter what I say, it is an attempt to get the state out of its jurisdiction, which is to allow, I take an example – this directorate who has self-proclaimed himself as a supervisory body and has been declared to be it. What does an ordinary citizen know? For him, it's this important, important and legal organ. You can't tell by making a failure at the beginning of the law-making process – I've finished my work and let them be tried. It must not be missed illegality at any point at which illegality can be stopped. If one authority or organisation, as you state in the explanation, publishes a rule, and it does not comply with the sectoral law entrusted to it by public authority, I will give you what learned lawyers write about the problem of the Public Agency Act, we must not allow and let it work. To quote your late president who said, "Don't make it so that we can't change it anymore," as he said in Kosovo. Are you telling me - we have a bad law on public agencies, we can't change it, they have a right, we can't break their law because we don't have the right to control them? Don't defend yourself to me with a form of fact that isn't good. Are you going to free citizens of the cost of publishing an invalid lost ID card? The law says it has to be published. Would you like to relieve them of their expenses? You won't? Are you going to print this "office messenger", which you're going to print at the official messenger as a public firm on the abolition and expropriation of parties, to share for free to the citizens that they know which parties no longer exist? You won't. I'm talking about motive and motive is visible. One more, please. What the state can't allow, it's to point to her problem, to go deaf on him. I'm not speaking to you indiscriminately. I don't care if I'm on top of you. I'm talking about every position and every point where the state can show its seriousness, not force power, but its seriousness and its systemic approach, the consistency of the law, and its determination not to let those little holes in the law become a place to give opinions, to abuse discretionary rights or anything like that. I'm telling you this as a citizen, as an economist, as someone who has a long-standing work experience that I'm proud of and who I'm applying everywhere, wherever I talk about this or should act accordingly. You don't have to adopt the amendment, but listen that this isn't a good solution and in some way your way, you can, you're the government, you're the government, you stop illegal publication of acts that some don't have the right to, don't spare them those costs, don't let them put their hands in the pockets of foreign investors and citizens, because it's not a political story, it's a rank where we're hard to invest in this country, from those who know what we're talking about. I ask you to take the most well-intentioned insights I make, and I make an example of the Directorate because it is indeed the most drastic and because of the amount of money that is only under their cap, paw, control and spending, and because they have self-proclaimed the Supervisory Body and from the moment of self-proclaiming professional, learned and honest lawyers comment on it, and we citizens are facing problems about this.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40260	Mr. Minister, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40261	It's good, Mrs. Tabakovic, that you and I are in good shape, so we can talk for a long time, obviously. So it's the directorate again. You pointed out the problem of the Directorate. You're not the first to point out that problem. The Ministry of Infrastructure can certainly explain the subject or, if it can't, it's, I say, a question again. I think Thursday's a day for parliamentary issues, talking to ministers, anyway, I'm not going in at all. Well, here's the truth. I didn't mean to disrespect this. If it's a problem, it needs to be solved. If you are right to do so, it is necessary to initiate an appropriate procedure, to point out to the Ministry, etc. If you're wrong, then you're wrong. It's not a topic for this law, nor for someone who might have done something that you think is illegal. That is no reason for us to provide in our law a government service with authority that does not belong to it. I'm just going to finish this discussion with that sentence. So I understand your thinking and it's right, but we already have a mechanism based on our law and the Constitution and our legal system to solve this problem. Adding another mechanism, especially unnaturally, by empowering one service to something that it cannot do at all, will not in fact solve whether someone has dared to commit an illegal act or not. It's just a theme for someone else, then. It's good that we understand each other at least. I know what your idea is, I support this idea, but I say there are mechanisms, the mechanism that you're proposing is really something that is totally unacceptable, because again I say be like that in the National Assembly, so bring it in, so when it's introduced into the National Assembly, then we there'll empower our officers to do the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40262	The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Sreto Peric, Petar Jojic and Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40263	The objective of this amendment is to delete from the law something that does not exist. I can kind of figure out the government's answer, so we get along right now. Still, it seems to me in 1993, so it was, the Constitutional Court declared that this member was not in line with... I'm confused, I'm sorry, this applies to the free publication of general acts. Look out, our amendment and what you've answered is not communicating. I think we thought the same thing. So where there is a obligation under the law that a certain general act must be published to the Official Messenger is not subject to payment, but why, then, and when it comes to other bodies and organisations where there is also a legal obligation? You are now erasing those two words, or three — organs and organizations. I think you're unnecessarily erasing it, but once I've taken the floor, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, and as far as the next amendments are concerned, it's all connected, so there's no confusion. You know, if the Constitutional Court has found that it is not in agreement with the Constitution of the Republic, here we have a situation to deal with the former constitution, then the question arises – why is this member that exists in the text of the law and that it is crossed and that he is standing or below somewhere that this member is no longer valid, given that the Constitutional Court's decision was put out of force? Mr. Markovic, we often change laws, so a member changes. With changes and additions to that law where that member is changed or removed, he's gone. If the Constitutional Court did so, then there should also be no law. Why is there a danger? I'm not saying that practice is what you've answered, it's practice, but we have to change practice. Here's why I'm telling you this. You remember there was a law on the construction and conversion of common rooms into residential buildings. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia has conducted some proceedings several times and it has been decided by the Constitutional Court that some members are being put out of force, but I must draw attention to the fact that then the National Assembly in 1993 or 1994 also passed the Law on putting the law out of force, and because some of the procedures were under way, a Solomonian solution was found where a first-degree solution was adopted, where the procedure existed, etc., will end under a law no longer available. Of course, there's been a problem. Even today, in the municipalities, you have special departments whose job description stands and that they handle the requirements of a law that no longer exists. This law is not from two years ago, but since 1993 or 1994. That's why there's this danger, and that's why these amendments, not specifically, but these two next ones, I'm using the time the party has, we're asking that what the Constitutional Court has declared is not in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic, no longer in the text of the law, that we remove it. Why? We also have an obligation, and it shouldn't stand as a historical provision. These members exist when a retrospective is made since the first adoption of the amendments, additions etc., but when the Constitutional Court has already decided to remove it, that it does not exist, so before this is the decision of the Constitutional Court of 1993 and there is no legal consequence in 2010. The Constitutional Court, when it decided in 1993, seems to me to be federal, decided according to then applicable constitutions. Meanwhile, a new constitution was adopted in 2006, so even from the point of view of this historic aspect there should be no more in the law. I don't dispute what the government said, it's a practice, but we have to change that practice. As an example of why practice needs to be changed, I've just taken this 1993 law on construction that hasn't existed since 1994. On the other hand, even today some construction tycoons and investors are building up and turning into a regulation that doesn't exist today. Evidence of this – see the competences of individual authorities of local self-government. You have property-legal departments or housing-communal businesses there, so when you tax the authority's jurisdiction, it even stands for the application of this law, and the law doesn't exist. Apparently, backlogs from 1993, it's hardly anyone who can convince us there's some kind of case in 1993. If there is, then it's probably those capitalists that need to build on some territory some big building. That question is being resolved today, but with respect to the rules of property law. This law was based not on property rights rules, but on rules of use under household law. It doesn't exist anymore. It is therefore important that our regulations are cleared from that ballast that stands by some mistake in our regulations. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40264	Mr. Minister, please, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40265	I agree with you completely that maybe we should change the little practice that exists. I don't think it's a topic for today, but I love what you started. It raises many questions – when it ceases to apply, would anyone be confused, objectively de jure has ceased to apply on the day of publication of the decision of the Federal Constitutional Court. Generally, it is one topic further to think. I think the Legislative Committee of the National Assembly can do much to understand certain rules and attitudes – how to do this. In any case, thank you for your discussion, especially because, despite being an opposition MP, you have shared my confidence that when someone in public authority is legally required to publish an act, then we cannot charge him for the publication of this act. I hope it helped now and other colleagues who had a dilemma to understand that.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40266	Mr. Mirko Lightning, do you want to go first, Mr. Krasic? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40267	I'd just like to say one sentence, given that we're all aware that this is a problem. Under the new Law on the National Assembly, I need rules of procedure to regulate a lot of things, and we have a special obligation to form a working group or a working body, it doesn't matter what it's called, what it's supposed to be, what our laws should look like. There's a place and an opportunity to sort this out. This really is a big problem. I agree with the historical aspect that they should stand as to which laws have been passed, as amended, etc., but when looking at those valid variants should be cleared from what is not applicable, especially when it comes to historical dates 1993, 1994, the Constitutional Court's decision applied to that constitution, and now some new constitution, etc. It's just a matter of changing practice, because someone can be a big punk and abuse it and we're aware of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40268	He has the word Mirko Lightning. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40269	Here, we've heard a lot today about what's been revealed, what's being charged, what's the legal obligation. I really think the question should be asked – why are these three words "organs and organizations" being deleted here? The word "organization" stays in Article 3 of the original law, right? Here you are asked to delete, i.e. you are asking to delete the word "organ and organization". I think that the argument of the Government in this part, which Mr Krasic also spoke of, it is in my view that the compensation cannot be clearly charged in any case when the obligation to publish acts was established within the meaning of Article 3 of this Law – therefore, compensation is not paid when this obligation is established by law, right? However, Mr. Minister, one case, if possible, you have left in this law one discretionary right here to the President of the Republic – that it may decide what will be published in the Official Messenger and what not. This proposal does not specify what acts are. So these are not the indications that, by law, he has the right to publish himself in "The Official Messenger", but they are some of the other regulations that you say here – the President of the Republic decides, is that in some way he has a discretionary right to what is to be published and what is not. The question arises: What about these and such regulations, or first, which are regulations and what about them? I hope that someone will not leave as a right to the President of the Republic – to decide which regulation will be to be published, why is that ultimately left to him as a discretionary right? Why does one impose on him, to be left to him as a discretionary right to what is to be revealed and what is not? Another practical question in light of these regulations, therefore, of these amendments to the law – did it count on one financial calculation, I agree that "the official messenger" is not a profitable organisation, you said that "the official messenger" takes care of its profits and clearly that people who are in the "officer" take care of it, but still whether the rules are a financial calculation in light of these rules when "the official messenger" take some of the rights to compensation for some of the acts being published?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40270	Mr. Minister, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40271	Here, I already said, "The Official Messenger" was in the process of preparing this law by the Legislative Secretariat, taking part, "The Official Messenger" gave an opinion on it, so I believe they gave their opinion based on their projections, of course positive. This issue of publication of acts by the President of the Republic has been defined by the Law on the President of the Republic, given that the law has been passed on the basis of the Constitution as an obligation under the very Constitution that defines that position of the President of the Republic as a whole, then we cannot, by this law, change practically what is set out in that law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40272	National MPs Zoran Krasic, Petar Jojic and Mirko Munjic together submitted the amendment, proposing that a new member of 5a be added after Article 5. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric together submitted an amendment, proposing that a new Article 5a be added after Article 5a. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed the examination of the bill in particular, does the representative of the proposal want the final word? Mr. Minister? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 19th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Marking of the Day of Regrets on the territory of the Republic of Serbia (Serbs) You have received amendments submitted by the Members of the People's Parliaments at the Bill: Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borisa Pelevic, Mileta Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Čolić and Dusan Marić. You have received a report from the Committee on Culture and Information and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2, a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Group submitted Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Thank you, Mr. Minister, thank you for your participation in the work. We move to the 18th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Postage Services (specificities) pursuant to Article 88(1), the Minister will come here in the building, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, informing you that I am in the light of a search in particulars of the 18th point of the agenda, therefore, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Postal Services, called for meetings in addition to the representatives of the promoter, the Master's Office of Telecommunications and Information Society, to attend and Snezana Obrenov Ivanovic, Assistant Minister of Postal Traffic and Petar Janjic, head of the cabinet of the Minister. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borisa Peljević, Milet Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vuceta Tošković, Dragan Colić, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Sreto Perić, Milan Avramović, Ljubomir Kragović, Milan M. Nikolić, Željko Ivanji, Mirko Munjic, Natas Jovanović, Vjerica Rada, Milovanovic, Lidija Perić, Milan Avramović, Milan Avramović, Ljubo Avrović, Ljubomir Kragović and Dragović as well as well as well as well as a member of Radko Dragović. You have received a report from the Committee on Transport and Communications and the Government's opinion on the amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Let's wait for the minister to come in. Hello, there you are. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Transport and Connections, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, he has submitted an amendment to Article 1. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group submitted an amendment to Article 6 and a proposal to add a new member of 6a. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Mr. Vladan Jeremic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40273	Col. Ljubomir Kragovic submitted an amendment to Article 7(1) so that Article 16 paragraph 2 changes and reads: "A public postal operator is required to ensure the density of access places that meet the needs of users and in line with technological and economic development." What I would like to say at the very beginning, and in addition to the context in which this amendment is, and as regards the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Postage Services, is the fact that what we have in the debate in principle made as one of the essential remarks, and what has been confirmed by some representatives of the ruling coalition, when it comes to this bill, is the fact that we have received a legal solution that has obviously not been properly formulated so far, or could not have been applied in practice. As fellow MPs are well aware of, and to the public, likely, who followed this debate, the current Law on Postal Services, which the Republic's parliament adopted in March 2005, five years ago, was still necessary to change, i.e. certain corrections were necessary. In our opinion, what is on the agenda today, that is, the way the proposer presented one such legal solution is not enough, because some of the basic ideas, as the promoter himself stated in the explanation, were the formation of a council, then the republican postal service agency, and you know very well the position of the SRS regarding the formation of various agencies. Then, indeed, it was somewhat illogical to seek the support of the opposition group, but what we think was necessary was to establish responsibility for those who caused the situation, that is, the situation we currently have in the area of postal services. First of all, if it is given that the public company PTT is Serbia's traffic, as a unique technological and economic business system, however you will, by nature things should be one, in fact being a driver of development and industry and economy in general and a significant source of national income for budget revenues. It is expected that the legal solutions covering this area allow for a further development policy that would result in some more successful and efficient business in the postal services market. Just in the context of this story is the amendment that counterpart Ljubomir Kragovic submitted. However, neither the Government nor the Traffic Committee have come to an understanding of the acceptance of such an amendment. We believe that such an attitude, i.e. the refusal of a truly constructive amendment, will not contribute to improving the law on amendments and additions to the Law on postal services which, apparently, is now presented to MPs for adoption, in a very close period, whether it is within a few months or perhaps up to a year, but will probably have to endure certain changes again or, perhaps more meaningful throughout the situation, is likely to pass a whole new law on postal services. The very strategy for the development of this postal traffic, in the end, also envisioned the elimination of the monopoly on the market because, at first glance, perhaps only the postal services market and did not seem to be something attractive or perhaps a growing job, it is clear that the sector itself is of paramount importance to the economy of the Republic of Serbia in general, because there are relevant data showing that there is almost 2% of the total GDP in the sector, or on that market. A considerable number of employees and employees in this sector are employed in comparison to the total number of employees. It is clear that this market, i.e. the sector and postal and courier services, absolutely affects the market for telecommunications, advertising, transport and, to a significant extent, should, if properly arranged, have the legal framework necessary, affect the growth and development of the postal and courier services market, which, in turn, affect the growth and development of all three of those markets. What has also already been stated as one of the main remarks is the analysis of the volume of postal services on the Serbian market showing one significant change in the structure. On the one hand, the appearance and e-mail therefore replaced a number of actions carried out, a number of accounts, reports sent by telecommunications and financial institutions, and most personal and business communications on the other, also increased through various programmes, through catalogical purchases, an increase in direct marketing activity. All this has affected the launch of postal services in general, but it is obvious that the development of this business does not follow and a certain adequate regulatory framework.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40274	You're just gonna tell me what time you've been using? An authorised representative? Yeah. I thank you. Transport and Communications Committee, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, he has submitted an amendment to Article 8. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Transport and Connections, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, he has submitted an amendment to Article 11. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Ivanji. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of the 21st People's MPs of the Progressive Group submitted an amendment proposing the addition of Article 13a after Article 13. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. A group of the 21st People's MPs of the Progressive Group submitted an amendment proposing the addition of a member of 14a. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40275	With this amendment, I asked for the 62nd member to be changed so that the powers and competences in the area of postal services are achieved by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry. In its reasons for not accepting the amendments, the government argues that this would be contrary to some international legal norms, and within these international legal norms, which are claimed to be contrary to these amendments, lists, for example, the World Postal Union Act, the EU Directive on the development of the postal services market, as well as the EU Association Resolution. Simply, by not accepting this amendment, you do not want to entrust your government, your ministry with certain powers and jurisdiction, so that you do not mind someone. I think this is the ultimate absurdity, that this is not justified even in common sense, let alone in the explanation given to us by the Government for not accepting this amendment. You don't accept the amendment so you don't mind someone you're not or where you're not, who knows when you're gonna be, or if you're even going to be. Indeed, this has already exceeded all norms, surpasses even some way that can be called some sort of a courtship by someone or someone who does not ask you for something. You're simply doing something without being asked, especially by someone from the EU. There's even some principle, some kind of crawl, in terms of that word that can be easily understood, because that kind of movement, it's true that it exists and it's true that it can be achieved in such a way, but believe that this way of movement has not done anyone any good. Secondly, such a way of moving is not unique to this people. Never in his history has this people gone crawling. You further argue in your argument why you do not accept this amendment, that if the powers and responsibilities of postal services were exercised within the framework of the Government, there would be some monopolies position of the state-owned operators, so where the state is the majority owner. And with part of this finding, I could agree with you and that part of it because we've been saying for years that that's exactly what's going on, that's exactly what's going on. We have been telling you here and we have been criticising you for years that in those public enterprises where the majority capital is state-owned, it is done monopolistly in relation to the citizens of Serbia. That's quite clear. I'm saying, with this part of your finding, I could agree. However, there is a cure against this monopolitical action, but it is neither the subject nor the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40276	National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 17th amendment. Mrs. Minister Mr. Jasna Matic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40277	I just wanted to point out that the recommendations we cited as the reason for the refusal of amendments set out a recommendation from the World Postal Union and that MP Munjic probably did not understand well. Serbia is a member of the World Postal Union, which is more than one of the six founders of the organisation in 1876. The second question is that mail, like other communications, only makes sense if it works globally and allows you to exchange postal shipments with other countries, not just within our country. That is why it is important that the postal system is harmonised and that the World Postal Federation's recommendations are absolutely followed, which is why I think that discussion about not following any recommendations, should not kneel and so on, makes no sense and that there is no reason to debate in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40278	Ambassador Munjic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40279	Madam Minister, I fully understood you, I understood even very well this explanation of the government that I received as an explanation for not accepting my amendment. It's not just about the recommendations, it's about the amendment that some of the jobs and competencies are done by the government. You don't explain to us why you don't trust your government, your ministry. That's the point, that's the point of this story, not what you're talking about, about recommendations and what I know.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40280	The 17th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs to the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Ivanji. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Mrs. Lydia Dimitrijevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40281	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS Parliament Club has proposed to its amendments to delete the provisions of this bill relating to the Republic Postage Services Agency. And this amendment to Article 20 has been submitted in accordance with that intention. Since several amendments refer to the same thing and the justification for their refusal by the government is identical. It is in this reasoning that one thing is written that depicts many of the characteristics of this government. Among other things, I will repeat what my colleague Munjic has already said, it says that accepting our amendments could lead to the strengthening of the monopolitical position of the authorised public postal operator, owned by the state, compared to other operators, which would be contrary to the liberalisation of the postal service market. Now the question is rightly raised – is the Law on the Protection of Competition and the Anti-Corruption Agency Act and many others adopted in this Assembly just as well as that the authorities of the executive authorities are not obliged to adhere to them? This written explanation for the non-acceptance of amendments to the SRS parliamentary club is, in fact, a recognition of the government that laws are passed that first violate itself by the representatives of the government. As for our position that provisions concerning the postal service agency should be deleted, I will refer to what you justify the necessity of the existence of this agency. It is written in the reasons for the law to be passed that because the agency did not start working, it was left without sublegal acts as instruments for the enforcement of this law, which led to a legal vacuum and the appearance of a large number of postal operators who are not authorised to perform postal services. Indeed, it is interesting: after 4 March 2005, a large number of postal operators who did not comply with the law appeared on the postal service market in Serbia and were taken against them by law. It is forbidden to perform postal activity, or reserved postal services to all postal operators who do so, except for public postal operator JP PTT traffic from Serbia, who has exclusive right to do so. Many have characterised this as a calculation of the Minister of Telecommunications with companies that, contrary to the law, engaged in post-express services. The closest associates of the Minister of Telecommunications and Information Society explained this process in the following way: "It is not about any account of the Ministry of Telecommunications and Information Society with express senders, but of regular continued control of the application of the law." An authorised inspection based on official records monitors and controls the work of both old and new operators who appear on the market, all this because the Post Office Act in transitional and final provisions has prescribed who has the right to work for the establishment of the agency. It has been established that postal operators working at the time of the entry into force of this law continue their work, according to then applicable regulations and have been left for a year since the establishment of the Board of the Agency for the Harmonisation of Businesses with the provisions of this law. This move by the Minister of Telecommunications shows in the best way that if you want to establish control of something, you will, if you truly want to get in the way of someone who breaks the law, you will stop. However, some things are no accident. When I say so, I mean that the 2005 Postal Service Act provides for the establishment of a postal service agency, as bodies that will bring in sublegal acts that are a prerequisite for the approval of the performance of postal operators, and all in order to liberalise the postal services market in Serbia. Five years of liberalisation stalled and thus secured a monopoly position. This means that those who pass laws first and break them. This draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Postage Services, as stated in the explanation, is also adopted in order to comply with EU legislation directives and the requirements of the World Trade Organisation, and you must recognise that in EU countries postal services are rather liberalised. As for the Serbian postal market, expectations are that opening this market will increase the quality of services, lower prices and boost the development of not only postal but also other sectors, first financial and telecommunications sectors. The agency for postal services, established by the 2005 law, is only an obstacle that has been in the way for five years. The government has rejected our amendments and will implement its intention regarding the postal service agency. We will see whether this will create a stable regulatory framework that could ensure better quality postal services throughout the country, enable the protection of the free market, strengthen the rule of law, while sanctioning those who do not comply with the established rules.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40282	The word is from Ambassador Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40283	Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to add a few words, relying on a few views in principle, and relying on what Mrs. Lidija Dimitrijevic said and referring to a group of amendments which the SRS has proposed to define or return to the ministry in this power law, if I may say so. This is the principled position of the SRS, that it should be abolished to the greatest extent that you have started to establish since 2000 or 2001, and that in principle they have not justified or to the most extent justified the purpose and purpose of their existence. The government, those who today, yesterday or yesterday who were in the ministries, have always found or found an excuse to justify the ineffectiveness of these agencies, and all this fat and deep cost first and foremost the budget of the Republic of Serbia and indirectly every citizen of this country. After all, a very concrete weakness in terms of these public agencies has been defined by the finance minister, who said they are the weakest link in financial control, to say, the transaction, i.e. the spending of taxpayers' money in this country and that almost 100 billion dinars on an annual scale are moving, and that the government has no opportunity to track them and not see where. Not only are they a ballast of consumption, i.e. they represent a ballast for the budget of the Republic of Serbia, in terms of the number of employees, but mainly because they carry out tenders, public procurements and deal with other affairs on the basis of which abuses, which have been observed by both the budgetary inspection and the DRI and some other, unfortunately, institutions. Because of all this, we felt that the state needed courage and to deal with such inefficient administrative capacities. Exponent or the best exemplar of this inefficiency are certainly agencies. Today you cannot say that you are calling in your arguments – because of the absence of the agency it is not done and it is not done. It's impossible that because of the lack of agency you can't finish a job, because this country and all the countries in the world existed before the establishment of practices to establish agencies. What is a devastating fact is that, as one of the main reasons for defining and setting up agencies, you are calling for a positive European practice. You call for a positive European practice only when money is to be spent, when a state apparatus is to be increased, in which party listeners or some who have entrusted you in political or other terms. And whether there will be some reciprocity and whether the purpose of the functioning of these agencies in reciprocity will give, make something possible to the state, then no one cares anymore, and no one living in this country is interested. It's nice to call for positive and parallel legal practice or business practice, but this practice in this country, the question is, in the environment you've created since you've been in power, how applicable is it and how much is it in function at all? That is why we believe this would also be a function of reducing the state administration. A few months ago, you passed a law. It's been almost half a year, traces and effects of that law almost don't exist. In that sense, you continue to make that practice in the Government one decision or one rule, as it is already called, or a recommendation on that so-called. A comprehensive reform of regulations, you vote it all together in the government, and then, when you go back and go back to your feeds, to the ministries, everyone from your corner won't have those regulations or recommendations to respect and act according to them. And then of the 212 or 213 regulations that you need to change, in six months you change or fix only 30. And let's not talk about what you've committed a few years ago to doing and analysing the effects of applying certain rules and regulations, which, to this day, haven't lived in an adequate way. That's why, basically, and in the field of these services and everyone else, we have the situation we have. We do not dispute good intentions, we do not dispute Serbia's need to follow the currents that are present in the world today, positive practice, but we would really like to see them specifically, on the ground, this practice and the application of these things to take effect, to feel the benefits of it, and not to experience them exclusively as an imposition, tax or any other obligation.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40284	The word has the mandated representative of the SRS parliamentary group, Mr Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40285	In addition to this argument presented by colleagues Lidija Dimitrijevic and Dragan Stevanovic, although it is known that the postal services market estimates value around 100m euros, as well as the recognition that precisely for the reasons why there was no adequate legislation, as well as for your explanation or justification, many sublegal acts, i.e. regulation of post-market developments, were pending solely because of the formation of this agency. It is clear that both the state and the public company "PTT transport Serbia", especially, as we could see, have reserved postal services in that part, whose performance has been entrusted as an exclusive right, but so far has not shown it in its report. The reason, as it stands, is the inaccurate separate accounting of reserved and unreserved services according to the cost principle. What I would like to hear here, and we MPs, and the public, is what happens to the postal traffic development strategy in the Republic of Serbia? If we agree that the strategy determines the speed in relation to the achievement of the preconditions imposed, it is clear that the opening of the Serbian postal market would be beyond what is necessary to adapt to the conditions existing on the world market and that some new postal operators could offer proposals that will either replace the existing range of products or create a new demand. The story, therefore, in order to remove the monopoly would only increase the quality of services, i.e. to reduce prices and what may be most important, it would also encourage the development of not only the postal sector, but also all related sectors, so, especially that telecommunications and financial sector, simply, it would be worth adding, only that, of course, the introduction of some new services would allow for higher tax revenues, which in the situation in which we are as a state, would certainly have an exceptional significance. In order to achieve all possible potential and positive effects, and to ensure a healthy opening of the postal services market, which would not in turn cause certain market disturbances, would, above all, allow for a more high quality provision of universal postal services at an acceptable price in the whole of the Republic of Serbia, we in the SRS consider it necessary to transform the public operator, markets and other market participants. We've already pointed out that perhaps the most important prerequisite is the implementation of this so-called. Serbia's third postal directive is exactly the restructuring of a public operator, which should result in the introduction of effective corporate governance principles with effective control. It is also necessary to ensure access to the financial resources needed to mention the process. All of this would actually create conditions for fulfilling the obligations imposed on the world market. For this maneuver, which is overly necessary in such an attractive and competitive market, one of the basic parameters is certainly the creation of a stable regulatory framework to ensure the delivery of postal shipments throughout the country. Whether the establishment of the role and administrative capacity of this regulatory body will now protect the free market, i.e. a competition that, with the strengthening of the rule of law, would allow sanctioning those who do not comply with the rules laid down, will likely, as I have already said, be known on the basis of some practical parameters in the time ahead, i.e. what exactly such a proposal will contribute to the practice of amending and supplementing the Postal Services Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40286	A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group submitted an amendment proposing the addition of a new member of the 20a. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Arsic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40287	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is obvious that someone wants to be in this government or that the government is showing that something is more successful than the EU member states, and it works according to their directives, and our view is that it is very unserious. We have a law whose changes and additions are now being made. Otherwise, the law was passed, I think, in May 2005. In the very explanation it can be seen that everything is quite illogical and the reasons that explain the passing of the law that they are quite illogical. The postal service law came into effect, I apologize, on 4 March 2005. The following is said, in the explanation: "The accelerated development of postal traffic and the need to regulate the postal services market have conditioned the need to comply with the EU's positive legislation (the 2002 Directive) – what we then adopted in 2005, if it has not already been harmonised – with the acts of the World Postal Union at the Bucharest Congress in October 2004 (the same situation) and the demands of the World Trade Organisation. The competent inspection bodies and postal service experts have shown the need to amend and supplement the law in order to facilitate the application of the law in practice and to monitor the application of the law. ''Then we can read something that asks us all a question – what kind of state do we live in? ''Republic postal service agency was founded on Article 65. The law, as an independent regulatory body. The agency, entrusted with this law between other businesses and the adoption of sublegal acts, did not start working because the Agency's Council was not elected. The absence of sublegal acts as instruments for the enforcement of this law has led to a legal vacuum and the appearance of a large number of postal operators who are not authorised to provide postal services. ''I am now asking all ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia since 2005, to this day, especially the Minister of Justice, Minister of the Interior, the Republic Public Prosecutor – why did they not act in accordance with the law? If this is an excuse for one of these laws to be found before the MPs today, then we live in an extremely unserious state. All this seems to me to me that our public company, which is thought to be a public postal service operator, is going to experience a similar fate as the MUP. There's a lot of newspaper reports on how the ministry is successful, as it is, but the fact is that debt cramps, budget funds aren't enough, and we have hundreds, not to tell thousands of different natural and legal persons who provide physical and technical security, and it's worth it to them, but it's not worth it to our police. I now ask the question – what are the relations between those responsible in the Government of the Republic of Serbia when postal services were involved in having different operators that do not comply with the law and make profits? Were there family, private or business relations with those who were supposed to implement this 2005 law? Also, I cannot accept that at any moment, as soon as a certain declaration appears, does the EU, does the World Trade Organisation, do we, from the convention of some postal service providers, have to act, because we would not look at the EU exactly when we adopt some laws? A dozen EU countries have delayed liberalisation, i.e. the elimination of monopoly on the postal services market. It will only start between 2011 and 2013, and the question is whether it will then. Imagine who the leader of those 10 countries is? Germany, the EU's leading country. So what's not good for Germany and what it's up against, turns out to be the best for us in this situation. And they have a far more orderly state, a far better legal system, far better income, but they protect their public enterprises. We leave them to the mercy of liberalisation, and before that, we have not prepared these same public enterprises for liberalisation. See what administrations look like, see how many in public enterprises, as well as the Post Office of Serbia, you have different boards of directors, different commissions for public procurement, one huge state apparatus that is supported by postal services. Do you think that before you do the right rationalization, you're going to introduce austerity measures? Because, according to one supply of the same type, five different commissions decide each for themselves and carry out public procurement for themselves. You have a logistics center, then a public procurement department, so I don't have to count. One such situation introduces liberalisation, not preparing a public enterprise where the founder of the Republic is, it's insane. We'll have a similar situation with the police. We'll have strikes on the streets again, we'll have the failure of a postal operator, we'll have social unrest. Or you have a chance to sell it, but then you should have sold it before the law was passed, its price was much higher. Since this law has entered into force and many operators have appeared here, and even individuals who are evenly equal to legal persons, and in other legal regulations are not, say, in the tax procedure, the tax administration, etc. Legal persons pay much greater penalties, and you are calling for equality, not to say what kind of services they will be and how they will be used and what conditions they will meet regarding the license, it is not all the subject of these discussions, but it is one obvious wish, I'm sorry, but you are giving us the right to suspect that the customer Post office Serbia is known and should pay as little price as possible. You give us the right to doubt. There's something else I'd like to draw attention to the government. When he writes us these arguments, he cannot write to the MPs and the National Assembly - part of the amendment relating to the amendment of Article 15 of the applicable law cannot be accepted because it is not covered by the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Postal Services. This argument is also quite an insult to the MPs. We have the right to write amendments, even amendments and additions to parts of the law to which your amendments and additions do not apply. I ask the question: What will you do if the Messengers of the people are resolved by some miracle to vote this? It's gonna be awesome. That amendment becomes an integral part of the law. Don't play with the MPs and the National Assembly. I realize that maybe we should have one relationship quite different than it is now, but I'm asking you a question – what if we say one of these amendments? To appeal to the president of the DS, to refuse to sign the Declaration Order. Or make the right explanation for why the amendment is rejected, it's not acceptable for these and those reasons. We can disagree with that, but you respected us as a congregation. This is what it seems to me that you want to deny the right given to the MPs by the Constitution and the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40288	Madam Minister has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40289	The National Assembly and the MPs, of course, can vote any law they find appropriate. In 2005, they did something like this to the existing Law on Postage Services, whose fact was harmful to the postal services market and had different adverse consequences on the PTT Public Enterprise and the market in general. I cannot be responsible for what was made in 2005, nor is this government, and I fully share the concerns of the MPs who are now being exposed, why such a law was passed and what was the motive to create a legal vacuum on the postal service market, and whether these were related ties and all that you listed as opportunities that could lead to such a thing. The process of liberalising postal services in our country is one of the slowest in all of Europe and is slower in the process than in BiH alone. There's no talking about PTT privatisation, and it's not done in any country, so it's not going to be in ours. The insinuations you're bringing up this guy, that you already know who's gonna be the buyer, are completely unfounded and have no basis for anyone's practice or us. I don't see any reason to argue this way, but I'm saying, I really share your concerns and questions about why such a law was passed five years ago, why there were harmful consequences, why it was tolerated. What I've done over the past year and a half is regulate that market, that the legal vacuum that has been created by the law in force disappears and the establishment of a regulatory agency that legal vacuum has disappeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40290	Mr. Velimir Ilic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40291	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is true that in 2005, a law was passed that was not then adopted, primarily by the Government, and parliament itself was not prepared to support it. But I defended that law. The EU has insisted that the law be passed. Why? We used to have a mail minister before the war. PTT created everything about telecommunications in Serbia. Then they made an objection to us in the EU because PTT had its own board of directors that was the cap of everything. The director of PTT was head of Mobtel, Telekom and everyone else. The board of directors of the PTT was a cap in making all decisions. The Telecom Management Board made decisions that had to go through the PTT Management Board. Without CTU, nothing could be done. Then the observation came that the PTT monopoly was extremely large and that we had to simply get rid of that monopoly and we had to slowly enter, integrate into Europe, make laws step by step, and the goal was to completely destroy PTT and get kicked out of the game, get naked, run out of anything, just with buildings that would rent out. This was needed to be done in order to sell Mobtel, to introduce a third VIP operator, because it was a commitment that one of the ministers in the government then gave and promised that Serbia would remain with only one operator and will not have a monopoly, and that would be Telekom, owned by a Greek company with 20%. It went in the variant – we will sell this, but we will buy Telekom Republika Srpska, but we will strengthen, so Montenegro, so I don't know, will all be, and Telekom will simply be a leader in this part of Europe. Now the money's gone, now we don't need that leader anymore, now someone from the EU has asked and said – what kind of telecommunications are you doing? Since that makes a good profit, we need it, and you don't need anything, of course, and you have to stay out of that system, and we're gonna take it all and do how we're gonna do it. The evidence itself is and now 12 graduate engineers, a magistrate, a doctor of science who worked at the Ministry, have lost their jobs, have been declared a technological surplus. These days, I mean, they're off the hook. We in telecommunications are becoming completely on the margins of Europe, of course, the Germans are promised it as compensation for NIS and they will appear there, although it is thought that someone might disturb them, but they will sort of regulate it. If it bothers them very much, the tender will be annulled until they figure it out as agreed. Serbia is losing positions in public enterprises that are current, regret making huge profits and a large share of income, which sponsored many events in Serbia, aided the state and the state budget. It's all going into some smart European hands, and it's proof now that I don't think there's any communication between the Director of the Post and the Director of Telecom. Why? No one's asking for anything anymore. There may be some kind of board of directors, and it will cover itself. So we lost a lot of things where we were strong and strongest. This country will survive very soon after the sale of Telecom and our children will remain after the sale of large banks, systems, telecommunications systems, etc., we will have the future to be rabble pickers, most likely mushrooms, tractor drivers on some large property, and to work our children at a grocery store for 12,000 dinars, and to work with those who bought these large systems of budgets, and the question of how many thousands of people will remain in Telecom and PTT without a job after all these reforms. I call them reforms. Why? What someone called it, and in fact it is to take over these systems that are divided at European Union level and to know exactly what belongs to who in the EU and who will be the leader in what. There'll be some crumbs left for us. How long will it take for us to survive, we'll see for ourselves. You can see for yourself how the budget is going, how it's going, what it's doing and what it's doing. So you saw that the Telecom trade unions were not for privatisation, but they were told in the government that no one would ask them anything. They can take care of the social programme, of something, and whether something will be privatised or not, the state summit decides. Of course, no one asks us anything, because the government is for the first time older than Parliament. What the government brings in, this parliament must confirm pro-forma is doing. But even when something comes up here and it is said -- the EU said, we are not wondering when we will be in the EU, and whether we will even get to that EU, and what will happen by 2018 and whether someone will say maybe 2025. We don't care about that. We are also interested in the sacred letter here when one of the ruling coalition comes and makes a recommendation and says: that is the EU's position. That's how it was in 2005. I remember the finance minister who came from Brussels at the time and said, "People, this has to end this way." We're going to bring some laws that are the same as some MPs, like we are now, to get their hands up, they're up, and now we're wondering what happened, and someone might be wondering tomorrow what's going on today and why this was happening today, but it's important that tomorrow, "Dec Telekom," they're going to take after they bought the action, these 20% of the Greeks, they become the boss, so tomorrow someone's going to have a majority package and they're going to do literally what they want. This poor Postman, who created and did and did all of this, will remain silent, no one mentions her anymore. Here are the Post Offices, the malts are usurped, picked up, some ministries take what they need, and they keep quiet and wait for what happens to them. It's impossible, as was said when I was once a minister, Telecom is the daughter of a PTT firm. Now he's gonna turn out to be the strongest son of PTT, chief boss. No one's going to ask any more "PTT" questions. They might be asking a few more questions, etc. We vote in this whirlwind of European laws, make decisions, cover it all, ministers come, pass, all make a new one. An agency was created. I remember perfectly, I defended in some previous parliament this, the agency as an independent regulatory body and it was said – it will be the main one. And now we see the Rattle people traveling around the world, traveling, going to see what's going on in the world, how it's done. This is where companies get jobs, people who don't even have licenses, have nothing. Let's take Nuba Invest, I've talked about it many times. Now someone's smarted up and threw out Nuba Invest, but he's introduced some other companies to cover it, SBB, I don't know Soros and the others. Therefore, Europe is very clever, while it keeps us on the clutch, I remember perfectly well, when I was first in Brussels, after the change, it was said that in 2007...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40292	Let me just point you at the subject, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40293	What?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40294	If you can get a little closer to the subject that's on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40295	Here, this is all about the subject. This is a very strong topic. We were told to enter the EU safely in 2007. Then it is said - you are not mature, you have not yet passed all these laws, in 2011 certainly. So 2014, then 2017, then 2018, so maybe somebody's gonna move on again. We're passing certain laws, we're handing over the company to the firm, the strong, the strongest, here's the JAT grouping, there's some property being given, and there's going to be someone running, and there's going to be what's going to be worthless. Without anything, and so I'm not counting, we've run out of banks, no cementers, and now that we've read the data on how much money has been washed in Serbia, very suspiciously, that the skin gets chilly. As soon as we read in the foreign press, first of all, who was washing all that money and who are the people, who are the companies, what agencies and how it was done, then the skin gets chilly. Gentlemen of the ruling majority, it's up to you here, fate is in your hands. You'll vote all of this in a package. You don't care much, you don't discuss it. You're not interested in this, but sometimes someone will ask us all together, but maybe they'll call you the most. Sometimes someone might remove the papers, as recently in the government, a missing folder with the sale of Sartide, stands an empty folder, no documentation, no contract, nothing. It's going to be a lot like this here, too. We could have had one operator, and now we have a problem with this one operator who brings us a year, Minister, I mean a profit of 140, 150, 160m euros. It's a lot for us, what do we need it for? The Germans are gonna use that money smarter, and they're gonna give us credit, so we're gonna pay it back, right? Therefore, gentlemen of the ruling majority use that, vote. I'm president of the Traffic and Connections Committee, and I didn't want to answer for a word on that basis because I've issued an opinion, but it's impossible that Mr. Ivanji, who isn't even present today, might not be interested in it, has submitted all the amendments, and whatever he has submitted has been accepted by both the Government and everyone. And the board accepted, and he didn't even come, he doesn't care, someone told him to give it all there we'll figure it out, that the sooner it ends, and that's how it's gonna end. Therefore, consider when you vote, and we will continue to be the opposition and warn you as much as we can.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40296	Dear People's MPs, it is my pleasure to inform you that there is a group of Leban High School students at the Plenary Hall gallery to accompany a part of our session today. The gallery includes the following students: Sara Bogdanović, Teodor Ivanovic, Teodor Stamenković, Natalija Tošić, Mila Ivković, Nikola Stošić, Zorana Mladenovic, Milos Lekić, Mladen Stoiljković, Aleksandar Ristić, Kristina Veličković, Natalija Jović, Dušica Trajković, Lazar Stanojković, Jelena Cvetković, Milos Stevanović, Marko Stevanović, Aleksandra Pavlovic, Ivana Krstić, Ljubica Ilic, Teodora Stevanović, Milica Bogdanović, Milena Cakić, Aleksandar Stanković, Djordje Vassilković, Nadja Stamenković, Jovana Kocic, Daniela Dimić and Dragana Stajić. The gallery also includes Mica Stankovic, president of the municipality of Lebana, Zoran Mladenovic, head of the gymnasium in Leban, Dušina Nikolic, professor of high school in Leban and Nenad Jovanovic, assistant president of the Lebana municipality. I invite you to give them a round of applause. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic appears after the amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40297	Dear Madam President, Madam Minister, distinguished guests from Lebanon, distinguished ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, I reported on the amendment not to defend Mr Ivanji, who is sitting at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg, and he did not go there for new instructions and new instructions but to represent the interests of the Serbian state. But I heard a frantic statement during these amendments. Here we are constantly being imputed to do something by the dictatorship of the West, by the dictatorship of Europe, that someone is giving us incredible homework and difficulties puts before us, and then the minister of the former government publicly admits that they are resisting the world's new order in fact doing everything in a dictatorship. He says - we were ordered to do so in 2005. I'm just fraternized, there's no one here from the DSS to confirm or deny it. I really cannot believe that such a political group, which so fiercely and energetically resists the ultimatums and demands, publicly admits and boasts that in 2005, it worked on the dictatorship and ultimatum. That time may be the time that characterized that government, this government is working in line with the needs of Serbian citizens, and this parliament is especially aware of that. We're passing this law because in the last term we had an agency that was never set up. So, the parliament of the Republic of Serbia has made a decision on the establishment of the Post Office, it was never formed until the government took responsibility for the job as well. I can congratulate Mrs. Minister on finally bringing this legal work to an end during her term of office, i.e. the beginning of her term of office. Today's law does not say that someone would sell something, that someone would trade and that some national wealth and social wealth of the Republic of Serbia would expose themselves to someone from the world, this law is passed to improve the quality of postal traffic. We are not going to Europe because there is someone calling us a petrified beech, we are not going to Europe because we want to meet someone's or someone's standards, first of all we want to make European standards, European conditions here, and if someone from Europe will sooner or later know that it values and values, it is not up to us to decide. It is not our goal to join the EU just to satisfy the form of being in the EU and not to bring this law into this context, we are passing this law in order to improve the quality of postal services and postal traffic in Serbia, in order to prevent behaviour, in principle, of greasy roadways, poor meadows and fields, but to improve one sector, and that is the public sector, one resource of the Republic of Serbia to be in the service of all its citizens. And the law is being passed in order to implement it, not as in the mandate of the previous government since 2005, where someone is now publicly boasting, the law becomes a dead letter on paper and a decision is being made on the establishment of an agency. The agency never forms, nothing to anyone. Someone else is publicly boasting about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40298	Mr. Ilic, you've got ten minutes of your MP's time. You have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40299	Madam President, I am very sorry to have to say, again, to use one expression to call one man sitting in parliament - a genius for everyone. I thought he was a genius for hot dogs. They told me he was great for kebabs.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40300	Mr. Ilich, please respect each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40301	I'm sorry, I just wanted to make a little introduction. Yesterday I heard in my statement that it was about the wind that he was a genius for agricultural products, that he was an expert in agriculture and that he was an agricultural engineer, but this same genius is now becoming a genius for both telecommunications. I'm glad people are transformed during the night, so they can do anything and talk about everything. Therefore, if we read the opinions of some mindful people who mean something in this Serbia, these days I have followed very closely the opinions and presentations of Belgrade University's rector, the ETF professor, I have followed the Academy of Sciences, I have followed what the trade unions of public enterprises say, the other day I have received them in parliament as president of the Committee on Transport and Connections, and they all defend the same thesis, and some genius appears and it kills them all. And that doesn't mean anything. What vice president of Belgrade University? Well, we have people here who can do anything. The solar system of telecommunications began when someone, now I'm not going to tell him, you know that, a professor of psychology became an expert and became Minister of Telecommunications, the Federal State of Yugoslavia. That's when everything started to work and combine and this is what's going on. Now, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, a whole one system in Kosovo has been destroyed in which Serbia has invested millions. Let's react to your friends, who lead you through all this and warn you what you should do well. They don't care what you think, they do their job. And our Serb brothers in Kosovo have lost cell phones, and there's nothing you can do about it, and all you're saying is you say it on RTS. Of course, you say that, judge, and they do their job. That's how they do their job here. Now we say - some minister did something and said it out loud. Yes, the minister is one section of the government, but if this government, where the Ministry of Finance decides in the whole business and gives its consent to all decisions of the government of this type, has given consent that it is a good job and a great job for Serbia, and must be done, we have done. Mr. My dear, I don't want to do this right now, but for the first time I want to say this, I've asked in this government as a resolute minister to get out of that system and I can say that it's the finance minister, then, Mr. Dinkic, I can't wait. Instead of the Minister of Resort, by the government's decision, he took charge of the entire system and he took the entire ship further and led it to two subsequent governments. I didn't want to get confused, because I had a little dignity, I just didn't want to step on it because of those people who worked in the system, but I asked them to exclude me from the privatisation process when I saw Mr. Schlaff. That was the first time I met him and not to quote what he said to me, because it would be devastating for some people in Serbia -- to tell me what he said. (Repeats of the Messenger: Say, say!) After that, gentlemen, I told you to invent me from this, and Mr. Dinkic became head of the entire team – that this job is being realized. Mr. Schlaff came to me, as with the Secretary-General, when you ask me – I don't want all the details of the financial work, but I will tell you about the decision-making. He said, Mr. Minister, I came to you to sign my consent, and I was with the president of the state, and we all agreed. The deal has been reached, and you need that consent and that agreement to sign. I said, Mr. Schlaff, I welcome you and I will not sign it, and I will no longer be in charge of what you want to do. Then came the second minister, who could hardly wait, and here after that Schlaff has the bookies, and the casinos and everything else, and VIPs and everything else, etc. So, sir, I'm not going to replicate to you anymore, I have no intention, I have no intention of arguing with you, but I'm giving you something that there are stenograms for, which is why people who worked in telecommunications went disappointed and said, "The devil took the joke, we're left without this whole system." That's how it was, and that's how it's gonna be, none of you here came here to impose anything on you. He gave you a recommendation, and you, being obedient, good, you'll vote that, and that's how it's gonna be. Europe will rub its hands. Not Europe, some countries in this Europe, and Bulgaria's fate awaits us – we will grow a good salad, perhaps a young port, perhaps add something more to us, we will see. Telecommunications, electronics, everything that brings profit, and consider, and remember this Nuba-Invest firm, and you'll see how much trouble there will be sometimes, when it all breaks down to the end, and very soon it's going to break to the end. Read the answers of public enterprises to my letter. Read the EPS decision, and read the Ratel decision, and you'll understand everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40302	Mr. Ilichu, you've been using your MP's time. There are two minutes and 40 seconds left, and you have not in one single word tied to the content of the debate. I think your "genius" euphemism, which you use for political opponents or those you don't like, simply becomes part of your political image, but the assessment will be given by those who sent you here. He has the word Mr. Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40303	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I quite understood the minister present here -- yes, there was a new government formed in June 2008 and everything will be fine. The laws are already passed or we're going to vote them in the next day, some others are already in the process, and the whole situation in the country is going to be settled. But there are some things that give me the right not to believe such optimistic prognosis. For example, at the time of your ministry, Telecom Serbia bought hundreds of scooters, paid them over 100,000 dinars, and at the usual store to buy a piece, 50 grand were paid. I wonder if whoever conducted the procurement procedure was responsible for the damages of five million dinars and more? That's why, Madam Minister, I don't trust you. I'd like to ask you a few questions. First, is it true that an understanding agreement has been signed between Deutsche Telekom and Telekom Srbija in Daos? Did the exact statement by the director of Telecom Radjuka – that Telecom Serbia has received an offer from Deutsche Telecom, which is not rejected? Is it true -- that the IMF has conditioned its further assistance to Serbia by selling Telecom Serbia to cover the budget deficit? Madam Minister, you can't all be blamed for the world's economic crisis. If we're conditioned to sell Telecom so we can regulate our budget deficit, then that's the problem of an incompetent government, which has a huge machine behind it and a weak economy. You can't keep blaming some who were before you, because from October 5th to the day of today less or more in power, you have one continuity. All governments since October 5th here have one continuity. I can't agree with the argument -- that Telecom may have been passed to the Germans as a compensation for NIS, I would rather say that it was a compensation for an event that was six and more years ago, when the Government of Zoran Zivkovic, the technical government, after the elections were called, privatised in one illegal way "Sartid". It is also known that the German economy and their businessmen were interested in paying the Sartide full price. Please ask me these questions – between Telecom, Deutsche Telecom, and, of course, the president of the DS took part in all of this, try to give an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40304	Mr. Velimir Ilic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40305	Here, I don't want to use two minutes, just half a minute. For what I have said is the biggest support and Minister Smiljanic, who replaced me after from the DS, who thinks the same way I did and who defended it as I did, and who is still defending and trying, although he is a member of the ruling coalition – but because of that he is no longer a minister, of course, and she is somewhere in the background now. Here, thank Mrs. Smiljanic for understanding the problem and supporting it – from the bottom of her heart. Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40306	Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40307	Dear Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, but above all, the citizens of Serbia, through this discussion on improving the quality of postal traffic and providing postal services by some people in the opposition are constantly carrying out one worry, the impatience of what will become of Telekom's privatisation and we see a wish and regret that they will not participate in this business and that they will not participate in one of them's high-income business. There are no more high-income jobs in Serbia at the expense of the state, where someone can take a commission. We certainly won't privatise Telekom through an agency that deals with the import of second-hand wardrobe, nor will we sell Telekom via a butyx that buys locomotives. Telekom will be sold as prescribed by the state of Serbia, as the country's laws prescribe. I notice some more sorrows and sorrows in this room. Now, I'm going to say a little bit more like geniuses, so that those who don't have that gift of God can catch notes and write something down, so if we need to organize an extra class. I see regret that Telekom will be privatised in one way, how it should be everywhere in the world, even in Serbia, but I also see that certain psychologists are no longer psychologists but presidents of the state. I also see regret that there are not enough psychologists, which may not be enough for Dr. Dabic, so there is now this lack of psychotherapist. But I'm not going to talk about it, because the debate in this room should be focused not on the lack of medical staff, psychologists, psychotherapists. One can say that the problem is also that Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, who is doing a great job as president of the Assembly, is a psychologist. I think we leave psychology, our professions, and our education to other committees, the Health Committee or other places and moments, and let's focus here on the language of arguments and facts. The facts are this: Telekom hasn't been sold yet, no one sold it. The resources of the Republic of Serbia are not managed by the principle of trade in goods – you, me, the goat, me, the lamb, you, me, the pig, me, the calf. This is where the resources of the Serbian state are managed by them being placed on the tender, so the most favourable bidder is chosen, it is not a boutique that imports locomotives and then is said to be – excuse me, sir, let's see what your references to doing this job are. Anyone who thinks that I don't know how much money from the privatization of Telekom will focus on the asphalting of village managers, the purchase of voters, the accidental spending of money, and through that debate he's designing himself to rule this country and what he would do with that money. I understand. You have the right to be angry at the citizens of Serbia who have failed to show you confidence and that some of the resources of this country, thank Lord God, have survived some governments, so they will be managed as they are done in host countries, in house houses, where rules of play and rules of conduct are known. Those who have an unclean conscience and who are concerned about something that has happened in the past can freely express their fear of pointing a finger at us, of opening four eyes, along with all state institutions, in the process of privatising Telekom, but must be convinced, that money will not be spent as Alajbe's straw, as it used to be in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40308	MP Veroljub Arsic first.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40309	Based on the replica...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40310	No, you're giving each other your views. If we started with replicas, then it would be a braking operation. You can do it in time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40311	There's time, so we're not going to insist on being a replica. Now I'm going to say why I doubt it and there's a fear that it won't be done right. In an illegal privatisation that was not in the tender, but was directly contracted, the then Finance Minister Bozidar Djelic, now Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, participated in G17 plus with Mladjan Dinkic and Labus, the current Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, participated in the privatisation, now MP Aleksandar Vlahovic, and "Sartid" was donated for $35m, with the state having to pay back $600m or 700m in debts to banks. That's why our suspicions are justified and established so that we and Telekom don't go through that way. When it comes to the privatization of Telekom, the boss, chooses the moment when he is most paid to sell something, not when he has to. When it must mean he's a bad boss, it means he can't run the state and he can't take care of the citizens, he's just selling out state property to hold his full mandate. That's the problem with this government. Less or more, you've been in power for a long time. We've seen your results, and it's not a fear that after the next election, they won't have anything to sell, but they're afraid of what the state will stay with and what it will have to do to work in the interest of the citizens. I guess that's the point of a country. There are no citizens because of the state, but the state because of the citizens. Once you understand that in your heads, then you will be devoid of empty rhetoric about the EU, because we can become a full member, but we become the right member when we reach the average of their incomes and standards. Until then, they can do whatever they want to us while you're in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40312	Mr. Velimir Ilic. You have two minutes and 40 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40313	Here, just for the truth, let me say a few sentences. It is true that Mobtel was sold, it is true that a billion and 600m euros were taken. It is also true that it was the government's conclusion to invest it in infrastructure, as it is now said, and primarily in corridors. It is true that they were sold during that period and Belgrade's shopping house for 360m euros, and it is true that it was sold for 300m euros by a third operator, that is this VIP, and it was all charged at the moment when the elections came suddenly and it is all true that the money remained then on the accounts of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It's the same today that it's all spent and that none of what it's sold for has been made. Therefore, I have reason to doubt, and all those who suspect, which I have listed, mean something in Serbia. I'm glad someone's talking about honesty here, and you know who talks about honesty the most. I wouldn't say it again, because you can say it again - hate speech, and that's some expression you invented, I don't know what it's for, but well, you're doing it. It is true that I have paved 4,000 km of roads across Serbia, 76 km of Corridor 10 during my term, and you gentlemen have paved 12 km of Corridor 10 and perhaps a few hundred kilometers in two years. Here, now last in the Arangelovac, let it show what you've paved all over Saturday night when there was a cloud break and how much it will serve.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40314	Time. Thank you. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic, who wants a word. No, he's not here, he's out. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? Mr Milan Avramovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40315	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment is in a package with the other amendments submitted by the SRS parliamentary group, insisting that the agency has no jurisdiction and that all competences belonging to the agency should belong to the ministry. This amendment was rejected from the arguments written for all amendments submitted by the opposition MPs. This is an amendment to Article 5. His reasoning and his basic reason are that the market is not liberalised by placing a monopoly on the ministry to shut down the agency and the ministry's work. What is also unacceptable for me and for us is the text found in the very explanation of this bill, which is the role of the Republic Postage Services Agency, which says, for the sake of citizens, I have to read this: ''Republic Post Office Agency is founded on Article 65. The law as an independent regulatory body. The agency, entrusted with this law between other businesses and the adoption of sublegal acts, did not start working because the Agency's Council was not elected. In the beginning, we have an example here of a confession that this agency is incompetent. ) The absence of sublegal acts as an instrument for the enforcement of this law has led to a legal vacuum and the appearance of a large number of postal operators who are unauthorized to provide postal services. '"This agency didn't even start working because there was no Council of the Agency that was supposed to bring some sublaws. That's exactly what we're trying to explain to you, that the Agency isn't supposed to be working, it's supposed to be working for the ministry. If the ministry had passed sublegal acts, we wouldn't have this legal vacuum that you're referring to. If the ministry had established any working body within it, it would have brought in x sublegal acts that would have prescribed many regulations that would not result in the occurrence of the unauthorized provision of postal services by other postal operators. This is proof that you agree with us and this is proof that you are not even for the agency as an independent regulatory body. Now I ask you how can this be an independent regulatory body when, as the eight reasons of the law say, it gives the government the opportunity to submit a motion to call the Council to the National Assembly in the event of non-compliance with the law of the prescribed obligations? Who's gonna run it in the government, if not the Ministry? At the very beginning, you made it clear that the Ministry was above the Agency. You explained that the agency is formed because it is an independent regulatory body, in order to make liberalisation on the market. What market? On this market where DHL, VK group or any postal service that is far more useful, cheaper and more professional than the postal services currently being provided. We are now giving liberalisation, more precisely giving our market to foreign postal services or postal companies to deal with, through EU practices or some conventions aimed at creating market liberalisation. So, we give state postal services to privates who come from the side, and that way we don't guard the monopoly, but we liberalize it as you wrote it here in the explanation. Then what do we get out of it? Cost. A loss for a state-owned firm. What's the goal of losing a state-owned firm? What's the goal of, say, our state-owned firm compares itself to, for example, the DHL that has the eighth fleet in the world. How are we going to get into this competition, some kind of competition with a single company that has branched out its business everywhere in the world, and all the time we're saying that the government's policy is to protect a domestic producer or a domestic industry, or a domestic business? We have this as a contribution and the fact that the Telecom is being sold that fills Serbia's budget in a great way, and there is no minus and there is no shortage, and we are giving it to others. That is the essence of this amendment. It's not just about tracking the fluids that are going to damage our budget and our citizens, or our entire state. I don't know, if some acts were passed in 2005, G 17 was in power back then, don't refer to some European standards because they are not applicable to us. We need to make conditions for them to be applicable. That's how you applied the digital channel, and we can't and we don't have the money to go from analog to digital. Everything is done for the EU, and agreements both this and that, and no one mentions the budget losses. We'll fill them with loans. Who's going to repay the loan? God knows which kid in a row, knee, etc. In essence, this amendment and these amendments to the SRS were to be accepted because you admitted that the Agency was unable to bring sublaws because of the informality of the Council. That's the essence of this acceptance. In further discussion, if there is a need, we will further clarify, and we will give further details of what goes into the facts and that you should have accepted the amendments, not the opposition, but at all, amendments that are useful to the state, and it doesn't matter who submitted them.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40316	The 24th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Committee on Transport and Connections, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, he has submitted an amendment to Article 31. The government has accepted this amendment. Mr. Dejan Radenkovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40317	Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sorry that some colleagues who participated in the previous debate are not there, but it is simply amazing that some current colleagues, and former ministers in the government, have short memories, as they say. They do not remember that they were in responsible places and for which they did not, although there was some reason, the Post Office and members of that agency were not elected until this government took part and the SPS-JS. What I would first of all like to say, and it is about the amendment to Article 8, which is deleted, is what we as a parliamentary group have brought out in principle debate. These were some of our views towards some of the reserves when these amendments and additions of the law were passed. What I cannot dispute is their practicality and validity. The amendments have our full support. As I said, they are a confirmation of our position which has been highlighted and highlighted in the principle debate and we are thinking that the proposed amendment, and also what we have presented in the principle debate, is currently easing some of the problems, and not all of them, of course. For example, I will return to Article 8, as it is deleted, and it is similar to Article 31 of the proposed amendments and the addition of the Law on postal traffic, so that the limits per mass and price for reserved postal services remain 350 grams and five times the amount of postage for the letter of the first rate of weight and the fastest degree of transfer. Instead of changing the proposed 100 grams and triple the amount of postage, some questions are still being asked from these two Members who are being deleted. In the principle debate, we drew particular attention to the activities of illegal postal operators, who perform uninterruptedly reserved postal services and makes us happy to believe that we have contributed to the public's attention to a certain extent, because they later wrote some daily newspaper with various titles – "heiducia" etc. If the limits could be both pounds and a tenfold higher price, and there may not be at all, for example, when it is not of any effect if someone gives himself the right to perform a reserved service without any sanctions. For example, the proposed amendments to Article 29, by adding Article 99a, to a legal person who has been found to carry out unauthorized postal services are provided for a fine of 20,000 dinars. I'll use the MP's time. For example, if it does not determine and normally does not publish working hours with postal service users, it will be fined from 200,000 to millions of dinars. This is defined in Article 97(1) point 2. Basic law. Isn't this amazing? I'm even more bothered by these 20,000 dinars when it comes to the sanctions, because these 20,000 dinars were introduced by amendments and additions to this law. I don't understand who was comparing the damages of two of those cases. For example, the Energy Act provides for a three-year sentence when someone steals electricity, and here we have a ridiculous 20,000 dinars for someone who steals a postal service, and that's treated as a public service. Now, if I'm going to give an example, it's usually a letter for our citizens, pensioners, students, the unemployed cost 22 dinars. I don't know how much this would cost ordinary letter to citizens when it comes to these illegal postal operators. It would certainly be less if it weren't for this "highly" postal operator and a series of legal entities, and worst of all, and some public enterprises and utility systems that can't think of a smarter and fairer way to cut their costs than to say, by breaking the Law on Postal Services, at the expense of citizens again, using the services of a public postal operator and this illegal, which we can't close down, it's just amazing. I was talking in principle about this particular gentleman who was in Croatia, until he brought the mail to ruin, then certain legal activities took place. So please, so that this doesn't happen, we continue to insist on the urgent adoption of a new law. I would also have to refer to the explanation of the amendments that are in full collegiate with the general explanation of amendments and additions to the law. In fact, Minister, we said in principle that we would support this only in order to really be an extensive expert debate, that there is no dilemma. So we've made a lot of sense about what might happen. I know this law was in the process and it's a little recklessly found itself now. So, speaking of EU directives, we have to eliminate the lack of the Republic Agency, which I was talking about at the beginning of my presentation, who is responsible for the non-constitution of this republican agency, which are reasons, whether there is something behind the scenes, perhaps even a minister of the former, I must again say that he doesn't even remember having participated in that there are no banks he mentions today, and it's just amazing that there are some who are now close to each and every one in the past, so on some thin line he accuses you and us of something that maybe the one who sits with him right now is more responsible than anyone else. This issue of extending the ministry's jurisdiction, we really don't understand the reasons, but again I'm going back to saying it's a mistake, because in the amendments and additions there was no agency at the time, it's all a few things, of course, I'm saying again, in order to pass a new law as soon as possible. I just want to look at Article 16 of the proposed amendments and additions, despite the establishment of the agency, the Ministry is given this new authority, the conditions are laid down for the start of performance and, for example, if you want to deal with these commercial postal services, and the intensity is the law of expanding competition in this domain, then you have to do the necessary paperwork for the company's registration, and then you go to the Ministry to get proof of the fulfillment of the conditions and to start working. Then when at the agency, when you get that proper permit, with a bunch of more paper needed to even start working, I'm not sure that you need permission to start any more work, and even to say by air transport than it does to start doing business with the express courier service, which is not good. It is not clear, quite frankly, although it sounds a little demagogue when the Socialists say it, that if this is a contribution to European integration and the expansion of competition on the market for commercial postal services and, again, I say, a reason more recently and as quickly as possible to pass a new law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40318	This has been your time as an authorised representative, since you are an authorised representative. Thank you. National MP Dragan Zivkov submitted to the 34th amendment. Mr. Milan Avramovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40319	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleague Zivkov, with the amendment, wanted to intervene on the regulation of relations and the definition of certain tasks entrusted to the Agency to be carried out by the Ministry until the Agency's council was established. So, in order to avoid confusion, he requested that Article 34 be deleted, not to define certain tasks entrusted to the agency and that the Ministry does all the period, not even until the establishment or establishment of the agency's advice. His amendment was rejected for one simple reason, which was cited in an explanation which also says that fluids and liberalisation are not in line with those conventions that have been adopted and thus enables a monopoly of a state-owned company that can do a job related to postal services. What is symptomatic is that on this article, also 34, which is listed in this bill, has submitted an amendment and an MP for the position of Zeljko Ivanji, who is not presently there, and his amendment has been accepted. So there is one clear difference here between the amendments of the People's MP position and the amendments of the opposition MP. Why? Because all this response and reason why this amendment is not accepted for opposition MPs is simply in conflict with the MP whose amendment has been accepted. The reasons for not accepting say this, I must read this for the public: The amendment is not accepted for the reason why the establishment of the Ministry, as a regulatory body, would be contrary to the acts of the World Postal Federation, as specialized UN agencies, the adopted Law on the approval of acts of the World Postal Federation, and now goes to the "Official Messenger", international contracts, the number of those and those required for all UN Member States and the EU directives on the development of the postal service market, and then the number of directives that provide for the establishment of independent regulatory bodies. A decision given in the Law on Postal Services in line with the EU Association Resolution, and then the "Official Messenger" number adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Now, Madam Minister, I ask you, to whom does this argument apply, to the MP of the opposition, who asked that article 34 be deleted, which was rejected, or to the MP of the post, who also requested that the article be deleted and adopted? To whom this argument is now, I'd really like to know. Why do I say that? In addition, it is said that if the proposed amendment to the Ministry of Postal Services, as an executive authority, assumes the function of an independent regulatory body, the Post Office, could lead to the strengthening of the monopolitical position of the authorised public postal operator owned by the State in relation to other operators, which would be contrary to the liberalisation of the postal service market. What did you mean by that? That kind of debate from the previous amendment, we're going to give a state-owned company to line up with companies that have far better and more developed infrastructure in the world, and we're going to give those opportunities based on liberalisation to those businesses to collect profits, to make it impossible for a state-owned company to work either with this proposal or by refusing these amendments, you might plan to sell the Post, privatizing all the services the state-owned company is currently carrying? So, what do you propose to this kind of explanation? To respect the World Postal Union and specialised UN agencies or to respect the monopoly position of an authorised public postal operator? What did you want to explain with this explanation? I'd really like to know the answer. In this current explanation that we have received, we have clear information that both the Assembly Committee on Transport and Connections and the Government accepted this amendment, and in reason of this government giving the same answer to the same amendment only in a different period, we received information that it was in 2008. So, the government report and the report on this were submitted to us. Now I'm going to tell you on what date there would be no confusion, and this report was adopted before that, as they say in 2008. Now the minister will come here to defend the amendment in this situation that we have found ourselves in today, which amendment will these adopt and which of these two amendments will defend? So -- the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, the Transport and Connection Committee, on 7 April 2010, accepted this amendment, and then we have a report from the government that this amendment was rejected, only submitted by another MP. So, if there were no confusion, I really have no intention, Madam Minister, to honor you with the error of the technical service and perhaps the government, from one or this period, but essentially two amendments to positions and opposition – one has been rejected, and the other accepted, with a pretty broad explanation of why this was rejected, calling for the liberalisation of the UN Convention, practice. On the other hand, both the Committee and the Government have delivered a notice that the same amendment by the MPs of the position has been accepted. If we can get some explanation for this situation, because we are really going to be confused that there are double arches of MPs in the position and opposition when at least the general interests of the country are at stake.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40320	Of course you'll get it. Minister, Mrs. Matic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40321	I thank Ambassador Avramovic for drawing attention to this problem, which I spoke about briefly when the debate was on the principle of the bill. The law was handed over for the first time in the process in autumn 2008 and your parliamentary group put these amendments on the table. The government rejected them at that time, because at that time we had no conditions to accept them, or there was no regulatory agency that could function. In line with that, the government wanted the ministry to take over these jobs that no one was doing at the time. Since the law did not come to the agenda in a few months, the ministry decided that the legal vacuum, which we have discussed here for the longest time, has been resolved by other means, that is to say, to establish a regulatory body, which was in place in the meantime, had started to function, and therefore the amendment that was then set up was now accepted. As I understand it, there's been some procedural failure, or we haven't re-pronounced on your amendment. Of course, since it achieves what we now want to achieve by amending the law, it will now be accepted, as will the amendment to the same text as the second parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-04-28-0.u40322	I find the amendment accepted, Mr. Zivkov's amendment. Member of the 34th Amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Ivanji. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Mojsilovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Transport and Connections pursuant to Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure have submitted an amendment to Article 35. The government has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 37 by MP Zeljko Ivanji. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I'm setting a break for the next 60 minutes. [[After break – 14.30]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work tomorrow at 10.00 hours, given that today we've really gone a lot faster with dynamics. Tomorrow's workday. I remind you that at 1600 hours, we'll have representatives of the government. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00.
