ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41661	Thank you. This is one of about twenty amendments submitted by the DSS to the bill. In fact, the amendment refers to Article 3 and point 11 where a bad translation has apparently occurred. I'll show you how to change the meaning of a certain point if it's not a good translation and if you use the wrong adjective. The point is that in ensuring the possibility of end-users, when using public communications networks and services, they freely access and distribute information, as well as use applications and services of their choice. Turns out users can use apps and services by, there by someone's choice, or someone's third party. The amendment proposes "by choice" to change the words "by choice". It's obviously a bad translation here, so I'd like to ask the legislator, since it's the laws. If some of the less serious texts were, however, it wouldn't be terrible, when it comes to the law, then such mistakes could lead to major problems. I think this amendment is very important. This is also an example of when the legislator, I say, accepts those minor amendments, but does not accept those very significant amendments. In particular, I am referring to amendments by the Citizens' Protector relating to members 128 and 130, where Frankfurt, or the Citizens' Protector, is trying to prevent Serbia from becoming and remaining a police state. Namely, this bill allows the Security Information Agency, the Military Intelligence Agency and the police to listen to citizens of Serbia without any restrictions. So without a court decision any of these organisations and institutions can listen to any citizen of Serbia talking to, how long the conversation takes, even the content. Therefore, this law also makes Serbia a police state, so that every citizen, including all MPs sitting here, can be subject to listening and monitoring without any control. So I don't think it's right that once we've passed a system law like this, let's not remove those shortcomings. At the session of the Committee on Transport and Telecommunications, BIA's director, I guess, trying to defend this bill, said – well, we are now doing so, based on laws relating to these institutions. So they're doing it now. And now Serbia and parliament do not want to take advantage of the opportunity to put an end to this practice and put an end to it. This law could prevent a series of abuses. Such abuses have been in the past, and I am quite sure they will be in the future. I appeal to all my colleagues here, there are 250 of us, so if the bill promoter doesn't understand this enough or isn't cooperative enough and he doesn't want a compromise on this matter, then I suggest that we protect the privacy of 250 and the communication of Serbian citizens. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41662	Three minutes and 35 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41663	The Honorable President, the Honorable Madam Minister, what is important here is the fact that in a very rude way, the public is deceived about what the content of this law is. So, I'm not going to comment on the fact that the applicant of the amendment reports an amendment that has been accepted and became an integral part of the law, if they use the time of their parliamentary group to explain what we all thought was to be accepted, then, that's not our problem. But what is the problem of all the citizens of this country, is when the most profound lies about the content of this law are being made. So if you say that this law allows for unauthorized listening, then it is indeed an orthodox untrue. A member of the 129th law says: "It is forbidden to retain information that reveals the content of communication". It's forbidden! So, please, either you don't understand, or you intend to deceive the public. If you can't get into the communication content, then you can't talk about listening. So it's not even a colloquial tap. Therefore, I, indeed, ask you, if we are already talking about this law, it is the interest of everyone to make this law as best as possible and to carefully consider all amendments, to take into account the fact that, on the one hand, this law cannot suspend the provisions of the laws which determine how the criminal proceedings are conducted, on the one hand, nor the provisions of those laws governing the way the service works. So this law can't do that. If the law defining the conduct of criminal proceedings or investigative actions and the laws defining the work of the service and the authorities gives authority to the authorities to request information from the operator on what can be called a listing, with which communication has been conducted, and in this law explicitly prohibits entry into the content, then it prohibits listening, then let's see if anyone considers that the laws governing those areas should be changed, first of all, bearing in mind the need for society to protect itself from abuse. On the one hand, we here, indeed, need society in a legal manner to fight all forms of crime, and the need to give jurisdiction and tools to competent authorities, so to speak, to fight crime. At the same time, we, indeed, think that the theme of controlling the work of services and civilian control of all security structures is a topic that should never be closed and always need to be sought for solutions that will allow the abuse of rights to be prevented. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41664	Three minutes and 25 seconds have been used since the time of the parliamentary group president. National MP Donka Banovic uses the time of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41665	First of all, the Citizens' Protector, or this institution that we have chosen here, has drawn attention to this law and the DSS draws attention. You're only talking about keeping the data. If the information is not retained does not mean that it is not used or misused, it does not mean that it cannot be used properly. So, retention - does not mean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41666	Thirty seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Susana Grubjesic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41667	Ladies and gentlemen, Vice-Presidents, honourable Members of Parliament, I am encouraged to report and speak, if I am not already in the principle of this law, since I have not been present, of details, of a campaign led against the National Assembly and against the MPs, and the campaign is run by a part of the public, a part of the media, a part of the NGO sector. I would understand very much that this is not about the institutions this National Assembly has chosen: the Citizens' Protector and the Commissioner for Public Information. I don't think that a good way to communicate is through someone's website or blog, but that the Assembly as the most open institution and we as MPs are always ready for dialogue and debate and about things we may not agree with, but communication has two ends, it's always bipartisan. I don't think it's a good idea for me to keep Mr. Shabic's views on their web pages. Why didn't they ask for a meeting with the MPs' clubs and why we didn't discuss these misunderstandings before they were dealt with by part of the media, who, I really think is running the campaign. Because if this isn't a campaign, well, look at the headlines – the government works for the BIA, the Assembly works for the BIA?- I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I don't work for the BIA! I work as a MP and protect the interests of the citizens who voted for the list I was on. On the other hand, I would like to say that I support the Manchester Initiative to address the Constitutional Court and to ask the Constitutional Court for an opinion on whether this law is fit with the Constitution or not, because I don't feel qualified enough to say it. He thinks the Constitutional Court is the only instance in this country that can explain to us and tell us whether this law on electronic communications is in accordance with the Constitution or not. As for the law itself and the current as this law was passed, I don't know if we should all remember how one law is made. And it is done by creating a working group, and the working group was formed by the Ministry of Telecommunications, so among other things, in the working group were, except for the people employed by the Ministry, and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Vednelic, Dean at the Faculty of Law of the University of Union, Slobodan Kremenjak, Attorney-General for Independent Media of the NGO, Dusan Stojkovic, Attorney, Rade Veljanovski, Professor at the Faculty of Political Sciences, Dr. Miroljub Radojković, Professor at the Faculty of Political Sciences. I don't think they've, exactly, gone over the text of the law and let various irregularities come out in this law afterwards. The public debate on this law was opened on 2 October 2009, with the publication of the draft e-communication law and lasted until 30 October. The schedule of the public debate was as follows, and if I am wrong there are people from the Ministry, let the documents, so: On October 2nd, the draft of the Law on Electronic Communications at the Ministry's website and the beginning of the public debate; on October 14th, the Regional Round Table in Belgrade was held in the large Hall of the Faculty of Civil Engineering; on October 16th, the Regional Round Table in Novi Sad was held; on October 27th, the Regional Round Table was held in Nis; on October 30th was the final Regional Round Table, which meant the conclusion of the public debate. All the comments received during the public debate were placed on the Ministry's website, they can still be looked at today, so you could see who had any objections on the draft of this law. He then, following an analysis of all the comments received, was put in the process of gathering opinions from other ministries, we all know how it goes in the government, and then came to parliament. I would spend a few minutes with the laws that this assembly passed a long time ago, which is, the 2002 BIA Act and the VBA Act, which was passed in 2009, to see that the Law on Electronic Communications absolutely does not bring anything new in this area about which the spirits and the eye were aroused by the Galactic and the Commissioner for Public Information and a part of the public, as I would say, whose order of the court exists, and in the BIA Act, for every deviation from the secrecy of communication, and also for reserved data, but also for some deviations. I'll quote some members, just so we all remember. Article 13 says, "The director of the agency, if necessary for reasons of security of the Republic of Serbia, may, by means of a solution, and on the basis of the previous court decision, determine that certain natural and legal persons are subject to certain measures deviating from the principle of non-violence to covert letters and other means of disclosure under the procedure laid down in this law." Article 14 states: "Deviations from the principle of non-violence and secrecy to letters and other means of disclosure, on a proposal from the Director of the Agency, shall be granted by the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, or by the judge of that court, who has been designated to decide, under these proposals, in the event of the absence of the President of the Court, within 72 hours of the submission of the proposal. The proposal and decisions referred to in Article 1 shall be made in writing. The proposal contains data and facts which are relevant to the application of this measure. Article 15. The BIA Act says: 'When the reasons for urgency are at stake, when the reasons for urgency require it, and especially in the case of internal international terrorism, the derogation from Article 14 of this Act may be imposed by the Director of the Agency, with prior written consent, to begin the application of appropriate measures, by the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, or by an authorised judge. ''So, these provisions have been in force since 2002. I wonder, and I ask all of us – why no one has launched any changes and additions to these disputed provisions, because this e-communication law only adhered to the BIA Act, which was in 2002. As regards the Law on Two Military Services, the VBA and the VOA, which has been in force since last year, which has also been passed by this Parliament and the Law on Electronic Communications, and in this respect does not bring anything new, since there is no court decision at all. Article 12 says: "Special procedures and measures of secret collection of data from the jurisdiction of the VBA are: secret electronic surveillance of telecommunications and information systems to collect data on telecommunications traffic and users without insight into their content. 'Well, that provision also has the Law on Electronic Communications. I don't remember any such amendments as the Law on Electronic Communications. ''Application of special procedures and measures under Article 1 shall be governed by the defence minister, on the proposal of the Director of the Military Security Agency, with the opinion of the National Security Council. If the opinion referred to in Article 2 is not delivered within 30 days of the date of receipt of the application, the opinion will be deemed to be positive. ''Article 13 says: ''Special procedures and measures referred to in Article 12, from 1st to 6th of this law, shall be taken on the orders of the Director of the Military Security Agency or of the persons authorised by him. ''Let me conclude, if both the Citizens' Protector and the Commissioner for Public Information wanted to make communication with Parliament and to introduce amendments and supplement the Law on Electronic Communications in the way they wanted to, they could have done it. However, since this has not been done in the way we think it is appropriate, we will vote for this law as a whole and with the vote for the amendment tabled by the Transport and Connection Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41668	Since the time of the parliamentary group president, eight minutes and 55 seconds have been used. The word is by MP Miroslav Markicevic, using the time of the parliamentary group for amendments. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41669	Dear Vice President, the respected citizens of Serbia who watch this direct transmission, respected fellow MPs, respected minister, for the sake of the citizens and for the sake of the public (colonel Tomic, "you will, just a little, please), I would like to say a few words, above all as a member of the Security Committee. I'd like to inform the citizens that all of us, members of the Security Committee, have signed a statement to keep some of the secrets we're going to have. What I'm saying, in my humble opinion, is not subject to the obligations my signature obliges me to, or a statement made, as regards the visit of the BIA last year, where we were as members of the Security Committee. I have to say we didn't have a quorum, but we were chasing some conversations and asking some questions. I told Mr. Vukadinović, director of BIA, as a member of the Security Committee, that as a National MP, and even as a man and a citizen, I am not afraid of listening at all, because I have nothing to hide. I asked him if I, as a member of the Security Committee, consider myself to be a man who has some secrets, although in these reports it is necessary to demystify and tell citizens of Serbia and colleagues – what is being conducted under the state secret and official secret, it can be read more in all the printed media. And everything is related to the Law on Electronic Communications and this disputed member, Article 128, to which the amendment was given by the People's Lawyer, however, as far as this suggestion, Madam Vice President, has been taken seriously, is seen from this material that we have received today, its amendment to Article 128, in this material there is no such thing as that, man, has not even submitted the amendment. That raises further suspicion. To get back to this meeting at the BIA. I asked the Director of the BIA. Does this service guarantee at least the members of the Security Committee that they will not be tapped by foreign services? I think it is important and important, since we have some data that may not have other fellow Members of the people, let alone ordinary citizens of Serbia. He said he couldn't guarantee it. Given that in the printed media of recent years, months and days, transcripts of some of the conversations between some faces are constantly appearing, it is not important for this story of which faces, the question arises – how do these transcripts occur? Who, in general, is listening to Serbian citizens and who is authorized to do so? I thought, as a member of the Security Committee, that no Serbian citizen could be tapped without a court order. And honestly the director of BIA said one example where they have problems, that's what you should say here. Since our country is, unfortunately, as big as it is, it is possible that from one territory a man who does not think well of Serbian citizens enters and travels through this country in three to four hours, and during that time, while the director of the BIA, or that service, makes a request for a court warrant for listening, that man is already out of the country. That's one side of the medal and that's what you should say. But in this law or other laws concerning these services, it should be regulated, let's say, as a solution, to listen immediately, and to subsequently justify what they did without a warrant before the court responsible for it. But here, this law is not about that. It is that every citizen can be tapped, that his electronic communication can be used for both abuse and political purposes. I have to remind you of all the colleagues present here, since I know as much about the computer as it takes to access the site and basic information, there are children who are very professional, now possible from your mobile, Mrs. Kolundji, to send a message of very dangerous content to another computer. So, from your mobile number, which I don't know, it's possible to send a message to me or to any very unpleasant content, and you're going to have to prove that you really didn't do it. That's one of the reasons why we should've accepted the Archives amendment. The very speech that Mrs Grubjesic gave, which is now being called to the Constitutional Court, means that something is not in the works, means that we see that something is wrong in advance, and then the Constitutional Court will save it. And when the Constitutional Court says that this provision of the law is a violation of human rights, then I ask everything, since we also had a ratification of the SAA the day before yesterday – are such laws, such as the Law on Information, as the so-called reform of the judiciary, as well as this law, destroying our European reputation, practically, holding us back and slowing us down on our European path? Who's going to answer for that? That's what I had to say, on the one hand. On the other hand, indeed, regardless of all the criticisms I have on the ruling coalition, above all DS, and all our differences, political and all sorts of others, Mrs. Komic, I personally cannot believe that in 2010 DS will stand behind such a provision in one law. So, the human rights story, the European path, as far as DS is concerned, from my point of view, even though I haven't really challenged you so far, I'm really worried as a man – do you honestly think that Europe has no alternative and that this is our European path or that you are doing it for strategic, marketing reasons because the vast majority of citizens really want to enter Europe? We must do this here in parliament, and above all DS, as the biggest party in the ruling coalition, and prove our actions. Supporting such a provision of the law, the G17 is already being drawn up, it is obvious, referring to the Constitutional Court, that it gives the final court. What kind of otium are we giving, what kind of reputation do we have in front of European institutions now that, in about a month or a year, we need to make new steps on our European path? Don't forget the Information Act. Don't forget the so-called reform of the judiciary, and now we have this about listening in! This provision, as it is written, is a violation of human rights, and, if I should tell you that I, which I am not an expert on, then let me tell you and let Serbia know that this provision of the law has been written, Madam Minister, BIA, which has not been reformed. In ten years, we have been stuck in many institutions that form our political system and implemented reforms, less or more successfully, but the security services remain unreformed. They've stayed on the system as they've worked so far. With that, I want to say, and honestly, I don't doubt anyone, no one's evil intentions, no BIA director, no people who work there. If you want ideologically, there's a lot of Ravnogors out there, which is good for me and gives me special makeup and trust in that service. This is not a suspicion of apriors in people who work there. The system is suspected of trying to make small-door decisions here, which do not agree with our European path and European reforms. And, then, the last instance in the defense is—let the Constitutional Court make a decision. Well, should we wait as long as for judicial reform, where trials are scheduled for six to eight months, where judges have thousands of cases. Should the European Commission point to us? Should we wait for this law to be reported by the Commissioner for Human Rights or Association and say – gentlemen, this provision in a member of the law is not in line with European rules, European views and human rights at all? Why are you even defending something that will be decided by the Constitutional Court and coming back from Europe? Now, that tells me that the BIA wrote this member of the law and she's behind it. Maybe she has an excuse for that, given what kind of system we live in, what security is in both our country and Europe and the environment. But then there had to be additional control mechanisms, to prevent even the slightest possibility that these listening, recording, whenever anyone wants, would not be abused for political purposes. Let us not forget, gentlemen, at the head of all these institutions, from the President of the Republic, who is head of the Security Council, to the service, are party people, and that must be said here. Therefore, for me, the non-acceptance of amendments, beware, of the people's lawyer, who is in charge of the state of human rights and the protection of citizens, first of all, by not having a representative of the ruling coalition on the Transport Committee, and after the rejection of the amendments, he, in practice, was humiliated, and, in my humble opinion, he came from the position of defence of human rights. I end up, I want to say that I didn't believe, regardless of all the criticisms that we are giving each other in one way or another, that DS Zoran Djindjic will stand behind this solution in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41670	From the time of the parliamentary group, there were 30 seconds left at the use. In accordance with Article 27, one notice to the People's Parliament, since, with the amendment submitted on the draft law, you have said that one amendment does not exist. Since I am obliged to take care of the compliance of the working bodies and to make sure that everything prescribed by the Rules of Procedure is carried out by procedure until the plenary session, the amendment to which you are calling cannot be made since it has not been submitted. I would ask that we use the argument more carefully when it comes to the procedure that we are all bound to do. National MP Dragan Shormaz has a word. The National MP Nada Kolundžija wants a replica, probably, so we will allow a replica, so MP Dragan Šormaz will, and after that, MP Ivan Andric will. I saw the People's Messenger, Velimir Ilic, that you were reported. There are MPs before you. I'm reading right now. You want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? In that case, all the MPs who have been declared in this order: MP Dragan Šormaz, MP Ivan Andrić – the authorised representative of the LDP parliamentary group, the People's Parliament of Hope Kolundzija – right to replication, MP Srdjan Milivojevic, who wants to speak in time for amendments, as you do, MP, will see in the signalling that they are no longer in the register. And your MP, Velimir Ilic, I ask you to register so that you may be given your word to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41671	Madam Chairman, it is not true that the amendment of the Protector of Citizens has not been submitted. It was submitted to the Committee. The ministry also submitted a dozen amendments to the same committee that were accepted. It is true that he was submitted and reasoned, and that we rejected him by 6:3, the ruling majority did not want to vote and he was rejected. Therefore, the amendment was submitted to the Committee, such as the amendments submitted by the Ministry to the Committee to accept them so that they could be an integral part of those amendments that the Government subsequently accepted. I'd just like to draw attention. This is one political deal that was so funny. Some parliamentary groups have forced the Committee, on its own, to submit amendments, to satisfy some of their little things, in order to hold a vote. It is unexplainable that all the amendments of individual parties have passed, I will not now list them, which, you will see in the amendments, because they would not vote and would not pass the law – there has been such a deal and the fulfillment of the wishes of some MPs if it were funny. I find it very strange that the minister never wants to attend the Committee's session and always sends one of his deputies, because he needs to make a direct statement about something that is extremely important at this point for Serbia. If we don't respect the Protector of Serbian citizens, a man who needs to protect the rights of ordinary people, then we don't respect our own people. Then what have we brought in the Protector of the Citizens? And it was very strange to throw it away, not accept it and go the way it went.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41672	Two minutes. National MP, you did not specify which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured in your request to receive a word on the basis of Article 100, which is prohibited by the same member on the basis of which you receive the word. And again, since I understand from your argument that you believe that using article 27, I've made a mistake, which is incorrect, and I'm referring you to Article 147. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly - Proposal to amend and supplement the draft law, the amendment shall be submitted to the President of the National Assembly in writing. The amendments, quoted by Mr Markicevic, which you claim I did not give a good notification of the procedure, were not submitted to the president of the Assembly. The amendments, as well as the amendment initiative, are addressed to you as chairman of the Transport and Connection Committee. In order for an amendment with any initiative to be submitted, the Committee must decide. I did not enter anything other than the inaccuracy that MP Markicevic made saying that some amendment that was filed was not in the procedure in session and discussion in particular, which would be a very serious violation of our work. That's not the case. Please take a close look at the Rules of Procedure, which we call upon to receive a word, because it accurately and accurately describes what the initiatives for submitting amendments are and what the amendment has been submitted. Thank you. The People's Messenger, Nada Kolundžija, right to a replica, then the People's Messenger Dragan Šormaz, and the People's Messenger Ivan Andrić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41673	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before someone is concerned about the DS may be able to read a law that comments and regulations and try, if they don't understand, to consult with those who can explain it to them. So this law does not define listening. In this law it is explicitly prohibited to listen, without a procedure laid down in another law, which implies the consent of the court. If someone claims that any citizen can now be tapped under this law, then it is truly the most harshly deceived public and it is inadmissible. Someone may feel that this provision is not good enough or that this law is not good enough, that control should be tightened, but it cannot claim that the law defines and allows something that is not true. Therefore, no one unauthorized to listen to any citizen, if he does so, violates all laws, including this law. I don't think it's allowed in the debate to use something that's usually false. If we talk about the content of this law, then we can reason whether there is a need to strengthen the control of the implementation of this provision of the law, to whom to give this jurisdiction, etc. Let me just remind you, the Committee on Transport and Communications, on the Citizens' Protectors' Initiative, has submitted an amendment to give the Commissioner for Information the authority to control and monitor the implementation of the provisions of this law. Since we felt that, and that is also Manchester, thought that it was a way of controlling the implementation of this law, we felt that the Committee should then submit such an amendment, which has happened. At the same time, I want to say that someone who believes that we do not belong in Europe should not worry about whether the Democratic Party is taking sufficient care of European criteria. So, if someone were to speak from the point of view of European standards now, then he would have to know, however, that there is a 2002 European Parliament directive which unequivocally, taking, on the one hand, the need for defence, security, security, the fight against trade, organised crime and corruption, gives jurisdiction just as defined by this law. This is absolutely in line with the European Directive, which other countries also apply. Therefore, do not confuse people by claiming that we do not care about what is a European standard or not. We are strictly taking care of what is a European standard, especially when it comes to human rights. At the same time, I'd like to remind you that as a member of another ruling majority, you also rejected the Archives proposals, and then you didn't claim that he was infallible and that if he said something, then we have to accept it without thinking about it before. You didn't say that at the time. Now, since you're not in the ruling majority, he should now be your crown argument that something needs to be done. There's a Constitutional Court. It is a competent institution for us, and if the Constitutional Court says that this provision does not comply with the Constitution, we will respect it. But expect him to respect the one who claims this isn't unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41674	You used three minutes. National MP Dragan Shormaz has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41675	Well, of course it can be wrong, 'cause he's a man, just like anyone else. Anyone can make a mistake. In Serbia, I think the main problem is that Serbia has so far been a monarchy, a republic, a dictatorship, a communist, a socialist, but it has never been, in my deep conviction, and not today, a rule of law. On the subject of listening, we have different situations. We have laws, here, now she read colleagues Grubjesic parts of various laws. In one, for example, she made a mistake, I will immediately tell her that she would no longer use it as an argument, the Law of the VBA which quoted only applies to members of the Ministry of Defence, the Serbian Army and employees of the Serbian Army, does not apply to other citizens. It's a special law for those special service employees, the state department, and it doesn't apply to other citizens, so what you've been reading doesn't apply to what it's been saying. If the 2002 BIA Act isn't good, you say – what hasn't changed? Well, why didn't you change it? The director of BIA was supposed to submit parts, if necessary, it is the Government who is in charge and, if that law is not good, change it, do not lecture those who criticise it. We have law-abiding in Serbia. Here, we've got the case "Coffer" and the trial. We've got transcripts under the law of listening to people, based on the court's decision. The lawyers filed a complaint about the technical conditions of the shooting, which are the best we have. The court accepted, the prosecutor didn't complain, and these went free. The trial's over, and it turns out they're free of charge. Wait, if these are technical conditions, and the best technical conditions we have for listening are used in that case, and rejected in court, well, what do we have for anyone else to listen to and what has anyone else to be afraid of listening in Serbia?- I'm sorry. That's why I'm talking about the rule of law. After the case, no one needs to be afraid of listening in Serbia anymore. And why isn't he afraid yet? I think the Minister in charge needs to answer a much more important question. I'm the one who asked the question, and I hope I get an answer. Namely, selling Telecom, as it is, in a safe sense, is also a problem. And free the Security Information Agency and the ability to listen; and the VBA, and the police, and the military, and so on! When Telecom is sold, it will no longer be able to use the infrastructure network in the way it has been used so far. It needs to be singled out from Telecom's infrastructure network and made a special public enterprise, and the rest sold, if there's some price for it, because there's no price for this government to pay anyway, to conduct the elections. And that's the biggest problem. If Telecom is sold to Deutsche Telekom, for example, which of our services will then use this infrastructure network? The Telecom Infrastructure Network is now being used. It's used for that purpose. Then, for nothing, and for what he's been doing, the fact that he's going to the B.I.A. So he's watching, and now he's guilty of this, too. I don't want to defend him. He went to the BIA and went out afterwards and said that the BIA was doing everything legally, that he had convinced himself of it. It's so naive. He went and saw what they let him see. What security will give him, especially with us, something he does not need to see? He will not hide from him. Now we're going to tell stories, here, now someone's going to answer and say no, it's all done in accordance with the law. Great, great, but that's why we're in this situation that we're in, like a state. Madam Minister, you need to answer this question - why isn't the state defined first to create a new public enterprise, to set up a network, and then sell Telecom, if, already, someone wants to buy, what remains? Whoever buys Telecom will also be privileged against Telenor using the same network, compared to Orion fixed telephony, etc. It's a national wealth, just like the frequencies of national wealth, so we're betraying them, and here's the foreigners can participate, well, we have national frequencies, five, public service, etc. And this is a national fortune everyone can use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41676	National MP Ivan Andric wanted a word. All I'm asking is that you register with the electronic system. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41677	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to begin by introducing you to the essence of our problem and reminding you of one member of the Rules of Procedure, which I'm sure none of the MPs remembers anymore, which is Article 140. The Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, which says that the draft law, prepared in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, can be placed on the agenda within no less than 15 days and no longer than 60 days. I ask you, what law has the Assembly passed this year or last year been in the assembly procedure for more than 15 days? I'm telling you, none! And whether it's a European standard or not, we'd best know that this law didn't come in the process of an emergency procedure, so that we've all had more than one weekend to consult with someone and see if their provisions are in line with that or not. That there was a working group, that's true, but the version of the law that was proposed is different from all those the task force worked on, and that's what the problem is. So this version of the law that lies before us is not the one established by the task force. Yes, Manuel, or the Citizens' Protector, let me call it that, could not submit the amendment – the law was delivered in the procedure on Friday afternoon and came to the agenda on Monday. Well, then how can we expect the amendment to be submitted - by going to the Traffic and Connections Committee, so the ruling majority will not give the quorum, how many times, once, twice? Only when public opinion forced the ruling majority to quorum to give. Now, what do we have? We have the word BIA, on the one hand, and the word of someone if it's called the Guardian of Citizens, on the other hand. So, how do you expect us to define ourselves? If the BIA were to wonder, there would be no law in this country. We'd be with each of us 24 hours a day, since it's the only way to prevent heroin trafficking, terrorism or whatever they're dealing with. And that's how it's always been since that institution exists, we don't blame them, but that's what we're considering. Now that the state has decided to regulate something by this law that is not the subject of this law, there are now two things mixed. First, it is a European standard, and here we fully agree, that telecommunications companies must retain data. That's not controversial. This is done in all European Union countries. So here's the question of how do you keep the data available to the services, to the police and so on? That's the question. That's what the citizens' protector, a function called the Citizens' Protector, refers to. He says, "We suspect that this is a violation of privacy." We couldn't react because the law was in procedure 72 hours before it came to the agenda, not between 15 and 60 days, as regulated by our Rules of Procedure. I also looked at why this law was passed by emergency procedure. The law is passed by emergency procedure, it is amazing, because it is important to achieve digital broadcasting of television signals by 4 April 2012. That's why this law couldn't have been in the process for 15 days, but had to be in the process for two days. Well, that's really rude. If we are talking about a European standard, this is the essence of the European standard's violation and it is written in every report by the European Commission on Serbia's progress, from 2000 to today. Each report says – it is great that the Assembly is working quickly, but it must not work quickly at the heart of democratic rules. That's the point. All of this wouldn't have been if that law had been seven or ten days longer in the procedure. We would consult, colleagues from the opposition would consult, the Citizens' Protector would share these dilemmas with, I don't know, the Committee, with each of us in particular, would submit a normal amendment, perhaps some parliamentary group would submit an amendment, the amendment would be accepted – yes or no. Like this, what happened? An institution, such as Serbia's parliament, has entered an open war with the Citizens' Protector, defending the BIA and explaining that it is a European standard. What do I care about the BIA? The BIA said eight years ago that it couldn't open files, that it couldn't pass the law on opening files because it was afraid of dealers in New Market. That was their reason. What difference does it make? This law couldn't even regulate this! There are laws about police, BIA, everything. That's what the Security Committee does. Now, instead of one law which, in 90% of other provisions, is a modern, normal law, like other countries, this has turned into a debate whether or not they are listening to someone because of the haughtiness of the ruling coalition. What difference does it make? What is this law going to change? Well, every single one of us here knows well that they can listen to whoever they want and whatever they want! As far as we're concerned, when someone has a calm conscience, they don't care if they're listening or not. The bottom line is that in defence of European standards one of the most democratic institutions that this country has is the Protector of citizens has been attacked. If he is bad and has no right, well, change him, do not insult him publicly, do not say what is not true. Could not submit the amendment, could not deliver an opinion during the working group because this version is not a work group version. This version is different from what the task force had, planted in the Assembly secretly, on Friday afternoon, on the Sunday when the Assembly didn't work, with the expectation that after the weekend we would all come armed with knowledge of these specific areas, as if we were dealing with it for 40 years. So, what's the result of all this? The result is that the minister will listen to each of us, although it has nothing to do with her, that the BIA wants to defend the country against terrorism, as it probably does, I don't know, and the result is that we are now in an open war and we tell the Citizens' Protector – okay, if you don't like it, this, what we're doing, file a complaint to the Constitutional Court. Well, what's the result? What if the Constitutional Court says he's right? Who's going to be responsible for that? Here we are objecting to the fact that every law, the National Bank Act, has been passed by emergency procedure. We waited four months for him, then we couldn't wait 15 days, but, come on, right now; there's a little change in the powers of the National Bank Council, a little change in governor, nothing important, an independent institution. Another independent institution, which is important for the democratisation of our society, the Citizens' Protector – what does he have to think, which he did not compare in time? When?- I'm sorry. So it's his fault he didn't read the law at 12pm on Friday night, and it's not our fault that we can't wait two weeks for the law to stand here, with an explanation that by 4 April 2012, television has to be digitized? When it comes to digitalising television, why doesn't the Government appoint a director of a public enterprise to deal with transmission technology? Does this have anything to do with digitalizing television? There is. And why doesn't the government appoint him? How is there no emergency procedure here? It may not have anything to do with this law. He's basically got, he's got another secret choice that runs all the time parallel, so today "Blic" finds out -- he's got eight candidates for the director of Public Service, but they can't say who he is, because I don't know what's going to happen either. It's a systematic violation of institutions that are justified at speed, which is important, but the question is how much more important that speed will be than the construction of the institutions we voted for. For the Guardian of Citizens, I think they voted all the parties sitting here, not for him personally, but for the law. How do we support him? By making one statement, we the other, these third, these fourth, and bringing each of us in a position to choose between him and the BIA. If I have to choose, I know who I choose, but does that mean I'm right? I'm not sure! I am not sure because as a MP, I am not allowed to see the procedure in a normal way, to participate in the procedure and to know who is right and why: what are the arguments of the BIA, what are the arguments of the Guardian of Citizens. Is there a committee in charge, could he discuss it, ten days, 15 days; if there is any uncertainty to return the law, to participate the minister, the working group, to hear an opinion? None of this happened because we were in a hurry so we wouldn't work for seven days, like every time. And it is deep anti-European! Nothing else might matter. Who lives normally, he has no reason to be afraid of the police or the BIA, but this is deep anti-European and there is no end! If the government is going to set a course, if the ruling majority won't listen to the Manchester, they'll change the laws one weekend, that's not the end of it. It's not anybody's intention and I know it, but that's where the intention comes in. Please, all other representatives of the parliamentary groups, in their presentations, take more care of the institutions, not only of this, but also of the institution of the Protector of Citizens, so that we do not continue to conflict with it. The situation is, now, what is it like and I doubt the law will withdraw from the procedure. What's worse, we said, this law is very good, in parts that don't apply to this, and it's really a shame that it's going to stay marked by this, as you said, part of a public opinion that's more interested in privacy or freedom, insecure procedure, is really a shame, but I don't think that responsibility lies on anyone but the ruling coalition. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41678	Since the time of the authorised representative, ten minutes and 40 seconds have been used. Citing Article 27, given that MP Ivan Andric, in his presentation, expressed his suspicion that in the adoption of the law in the National Assembly, one respected member of 140, who prescribed the way the laws enter the procedure, deadlines and the way in which the procedure, i.e. the vote, was concluded, I order the National Assembly to deliver, time and whether, in accordance with Article 140, all the laws that entered the Assembly from 11 June 2008 to 11 June 2010. Since I am obliged, at least partially, to answer the question that Article 140 is not respected, I am now giving it, like this, orally. Since the beginning of this year, 51 laws have been entered into the assembly procedure, requiring 20 draft laws or 39.22% to be considered by emergency procedure. During this time, from the beginning of the year to 11 June 2010, 123 draft laws were considered, of which 10.57% by emergency procedure. The remaining 89.43% were considered in accordance with Article 140(1). I really ask you that, as far as the procedure is concerned, we are very careful to consult the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which define the procedure and that, if it can, all remarks or doubts that the Assembly is violating our own procedure, because it has much more meaning than any political argument. That's why I'm giving this information. People's MP, you can't preside over giving replicas. I'm really asking you to read the Rules of Procedure. You said there was probably no law that entered the congregation procedure in accordance with Article 140(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I have to give an answer. It's not about anything else. You said you had your suspicions. Please, you have no right to a replica. MP Srdjan Milivojevic. (Employee Ivan Andric, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Injury of the Rules of Procedure? People's MPs who are registered in the electronic system, MP Srdjan Milivojević, MP Vjerica Radet, National MP Nada Kolundžija and MP Velimir Ilic, will now see in their MPs that there is no signalling, as the word requests a MP, Ivan Andric, because he wants to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Please sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41679	Thank you. I think it's a little wrong to interpret what I said. At first, first, to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure. As I was looking for an explanation, nowhere, it doesn't mean I can't sit with you, that's true, but neither can you. I didn't ask for a direct answer right now, because I can't check it out. Please, if you already intend to answer me, give me a written answer, and then I'll look at these laws, how much of a ratification law, and what is this law, is it more important than a three-month contract standing here, than the NBS Act, the Chamber of Commerce Act, the Electronic Communications Act, and we can talk about it that way. What's wrong with interpreting what I said is not the point of what I said. The bottom line of what I said is that the laws that are directly sensitive and reformable are not what I said about the Assembly breaking the procedure, but about them using a procedure that absolutely cannot be used. Because this -- that television should broadcast a digital signal on April 4, 2012, has nothing to do with the retained data of telecommunications companies. It doesn't matter. And it is a violation of procedure here. So in 2012, it might look close from one angle of looking, but from the point of view whether the law was supposed to stand in the process for another 10 days, it really doesn't come so fast. And that would solve the problems that this institution has made in communication and working with other European institutions of this society. And that was the essence of why I mentioned an emergency procedure. You're probably right, when a military contract is ratified, which Serbia has been carrying out for five years, then it doesn't matter whether it's an emergency procedure or not, and whether it's in the ordinary process. I was talking about the very concrete reform laws that are in place.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41680	National MP, you are under obligation to indicate which member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. (Employee Ivan Andric, from the post: Article 27) Not from a place and not after, but within a framework, please also check with the stenogram that you did not specify a member of the Rules of Procedure. It doesn't occur to me to remind an MP who's done his duties, that he hasn't done it. I'm also asking you to take a look at the stenogram and see that I've ordered the service to deliver everything to you. I ask the People's Messengers not to earn. ) So, I asked that everything be delivered to you from 11 June 2008 to 11 June 2010, all proposals, so that you could check the deadlines which and how they entered the procedure in accordance with Article 140. The reason I gave the information is because the sentence was – I believe that no law has entered in accordance with Article 140(1). I understand when I'm in a position to consider it a sentence that's good at exhibiting. I ask you to understand that the one who holds the presidency must make sure that the correct information on the procedure is provided. I haven't written a single letter in any part of your exposure to your subjects. It's your right. The Messenger of the people Srdjan Milivojević, and the Messenger of the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41681	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable and respected citizens of Serbia, when we listened today to representatives of certain political parties in this high house, we heard two aspects of criticism about this law. It's the first thing about procedure. The other concerns the essence of this law. I'm a member of the Traffic and Connections Committee and I have an obligation, the truth to answer some questions and some of the raised dilemmas that we heard in today's debate. First, when it comes to quorum on the Committee on Traffic and Connections, we did not have the quorum twice, not because the ruling majority is afraid to discuss someone's initiative, but because two members of the Committee from the ruling majority were not in Serbia at the moment. The commitment of the ruling majority to secure the quorum on boards is the opposition's stance, not the authorities. We don't want to look unserious, and that's why we didn't have a quorum for those reasons. As soon as the quorum was secured, the initiative, rather than the amendments of the Citizens' Protectors, was discussed on that committee. I understand independent media. I understand NGOs. I understand the interested professional public. I understand also the self-proclaimed experts and the professional public who are not obliged to know the procedure, the procedure is often just a bureaucratic issue for ordinary citizens. It's a matter of importance. But state officials, those who do business on behalf of Serbian citizens, those who receive salaries from the Republic of Serbia, must work in accordance with the law. That goes for the MPs, too. That goes for the Citizens' Protectors. The truth is, the Citizens' Protector has not submitted the amendments, but the initiative. That's a technical question. The initiative, in the form of amendments, was discussed by the Transport and Communications Committee. One amendment was accepted by the Transport and Communications Committee. Another initiative, in the form of amendments, that committee did not accept. That's the full truth about the Citizens' Protector's initiative. I want to say one more thing about the criticism of this law, in terms of its essence. It is common practice in the Republic of Serbia that certain political parties from the position of fear, spreading fear and panic among citizens are criticising a certain law. That's what this law is called a listening law. I learned to read very early. I know the alphabet very well and all 30 letters. There's no mention of the word listening in this law. Of course, listening appears to those who know how they used security services at the time they were in power. I have full confidence, first of all, in my colleagues from the Defence and Security Committee. They are, above all, competent to exercise parliamentary control in the service of security in this country. I believe they're up to the task and they're up to the job. They are able to put security services in proper parliamentary control in an appropriate democratic manner, as ordered by the Constitution but also by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I underline, there are political parties who love and want to scare the citizens. Only, respected citizens of Serbia, will I remind you of several laws we have passed in this assembly and of arguments served or at least part of the opposition served. When we got the white Schengen they said - yes, we got the white Schengen, we'll give a piece of Serbia's territory! When we debated the law on the jurisdiction of the Duke, it was said, "In a year, Vojvodina will secede and it will be an independent republic." Who thinks I'm lying and publishing to the public I can read him the stenographic notes from all the sessions, because I spend a very large part of my time in the library of the Serbian Parliament, and it keeps our statements, in the form of written testimony, as chronicles, what we've been saying and doing. In front of the DS, I have no reason to bend my head and look at the floor when documents are quoted and speeches by the MPs of the DS ranks. We never feared the citizens, but we didn't hesitate to tell the truth. We have never sowed false panic and fear that because of the agreement we sign with the EU, Serbia will have to give up works of its territory, as some have said. Today they're telling you this is a listening law, and because of this law, BIA will be able to unauthorized anyone to listen. The truth is, I'm going to quote a member of this law who says what the duties of the operator are and what the duties of the operator are. Clean, one explanation – an operator is anyone who does business between other and mobile phones, and the operator is a person who works for a particular device, computer, computer or something else, who participates in the transmission of that signal and who participates in telecommunications traffic. I will also quote the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, article 41, which says: "The secrecy of letters and other means of communication is uninjured. ''That's what the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says as the highest legal act of this country. Now I'm going to compare the electronic form of communication and the use of a mobile phone with the transmission of a telegram. When Mrs Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic sends me and any of you MPs a telegram notice that a session of the Assembly has been scheduled, the postman comes to me and says, hey, the President of the Assembly wrote to you, and says you have a session of the Assembly! He already knows in advance what the telegram says, not only does he know who I wrote to and when he wrote to me, and when he sent me a telegram, and where he sent me a telegram and that I would receive a telegram, he even knows the contents of that telegram. Is that according to the Constitution, which says that "the secrecy of letters and other means of communication is injureable"? Of course not. And now I ask you, the MPs of the opposition, first of all, do you know how much insight is kept in Serbia about sending and receiving telegrams that you might send? Maybe some decent glory, maybe give someone your condolences. This telegram indicates the name and last name of the recipient, address, address of the sender, date on which that telegram was sent, date on which the telegram was delivered. Does anyone know how much that telegram is stored in the mail archives? Nobody. But some do mind, because such data will be kept on traffic achieved via mobile phone and the Internet. Not to mention the letter. When you send the recommended letter, it also remains the reception of that letter, when the letter has been sent to, to whom it is sent, who sends it, where it sends it, and it does not bother anyone. Of course, today, in the era of global communication, a much more frequent form of communication between people on a mobile phone, on the Internet, than with letters and telegrams. Is the Constitution supposed to only protect electronic communication? Personally, I think this member of the law is written in accordance with the Constitution. You know, I'm one of the members and founders of the Resistance People's Movement. The Resistance was formed as an organization that stood up for universal human rights and freedoms. Ten years after October 5th, nothing in my mind has changed, nothing in my political activity has changed that I would now pass a law that will have to be ashamed of what this law is passed and to say – I have failed my commitment to universal human values, to universal human freedoms and rights. On the contrary, the right to security is also one of the outstanding rights guaranteed by both the Constitution and other acts, including the international Charter of the UN. This law certainly complies with European recommendations and experiences. I will ask you, MPs and dear colleagues, isn't independence declared in the territory of the southern Serbian province, in our Kosovo and Metohija? Didn't the National Security Council say that this worthless declared independence is a threat to security, a threat to the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia? Yes, it is! And here you will all agree that it is a threat to the security and constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia. Is there anyone in this room who thinks differently? Of course not. Does the state of Serbia have the right to place its security apparatus in the service of all citizens? Of course there is. Do all other European countries have the right to do so? They do. It was on the Security Committee, but it was also on the Transport and Connections Committee, talking about the experiences of Great Britain. Citizens of Serbia, I will remind you, and my fellow MPs probably know that in Britain there was a famous Meloun case, where a professor sued the UK Constitutional Court for her security service, because they published her e-mails, the addresses she sent them to, the time, the data, who received those e-mails, received and read. Of course, she got them at the Constitutional Court. In the same Britain, four terrorists tried to plant backpacks with explosives in the subway. All four of them, together with their associates, were arrested because the operator kept all the data on the electronic communication achieved. That's what our law predicts. Our law, once again, undermining and repeating, is not the law of listening as some want to vulgarize. This is a law which states that an operator is obliged to protect retained data in particular to provide them, that retained data of the same quality and subject to the same security measures as data in electronic communications, that retained data are protected in a special way from accidental or unauthorised destruction, accidental loss or alteration of unauthorized or illegal storage, processing, access or detection. There's no talking here about listening to the phone. Here, only data on the phone communication achieved is stored for a year. If someone wants to access that data, they need to comply with the Criminal Procedure Act to ask the competent court. It must also be done in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as the country's highest legal act. Do not frighten the citizens that someone will trespass into the content of the communication that has been achieved. That's not true. It can only be done if the court orders it. Now the question is, how much trust can we have in the BIA that they won't make abuses. It's a question that opens up in our personal dilemma, do we trust our colleagues in the Security Committee to be able to put under parliamentary control of the security service. BIA is not the same as the state security of the Republic of Serbia ten years ago. It was a machine where a man in a police uniform was waiting for you on the counter for the ordered political murders of political opponents, and you were able to order him to kill any political opponent or opponent, his liquidation, compromise and elimination, thanks to the position of power. It's not that security service anymore. BIA is today a security apparatus that enjoys the greatest trust in the world. I'll remind you, the world's largest cocaine confiscation last year was done by the BIA. We got good news, a few days ago, from Brussels and Europe thanks to BIA's involvement in the arrest of war criminals. The murderers of Zoran Djindjic in Zagreb were recently arrested, among other things, thanks to BIA's involvement. I'm not a BIA lawyer, nor is it any of us in this room, because the BIA doesn't need to have its own lawyers in parliament or have its own private deputies. The conspiracy theory, where many Cvorovici appear, has always been present in Serbia. But when you stand in front of a mirror, when a man stands still in the morning in front of a mirror and looks at that mirror and looks at what he's been doing, he can clearly ask himself a question – is there anything in my work that I could be ashamed of? I don't see anything in my past that I should and should be ashamed of. This law will be the least of it. I will also refer partly to the issues of the procedure for the adoption of this law. It is true that this law is passed by emergency procedure, perhaps it is better that there was more time to pass this law, perhaps it would be better to have more time, perhaps, when we are talking at all about the procedure of who should have insight into the data, we should also have a reminder of what it looked like when the BIA followed the leader of an organized criminal group, who is legally convicted and is on a 12-year sentence, what it looked like when it was entrusted to the court to order him to listen. The Supreme Court judge, who was also legally sentenced to a large prison sentence, personally invited the first indictee to prison and said, listen to all of us, we are all on track, have transcripts of our talks. Why doesn't someone say if we should, perhaps, trust such a court? Of course, we have a reformed judiciary and we don't have any more, I hope, such judges who will tarnish the judge's profession and honor. But what it looks like is the procedure when the BIA is looking for data -- today, let's say, some security-interesting or security-hazarded person in Serbia will enter Serbia's territory, and it will, thanks to the involvement of some political parties that are now benefiting, be able to cross Serbia in six hours, in four hours, not because you've made highways, but because you've done one other job. Now this man will enter the territory of the Republic of Serbia and then we will ask the court to allow its monitoring, then it will have to be seduced, implemented, implemented, done, he may, in four hours, already leave Serbia, do the job he has come here for, most often dishonest, and we will remain deprived of the information he has communicated with, as well as why. These are reasons for the speed of action sometimes when it comes to the security of the country. Underlining, the National Security Council has declared Kosovo's self-proclaimed independence one of the biggest security risks to Serbia. We, as MPs, must take care of the rights and freedoms of citizens, but we must also take care of the security of these citizens. Because it's two inseparable rights. This must not be an excuse for any or any illegality and may not be an excuse for any activity outside the law. But I underline and repeat, this law does not allow listening. Citizens of Serbia, this law regulates the country's security in the way it should be arranged. This is not a law regarding the security of the country. This is the electronic communications law. And only in one provision of this law, in Article 130, is defined when, who, how and how can access the content of the e-mails or traffic reached, but exclusively in accordance with the Constitution and on the basis of the court's decision. Whoever otherwise argues, deceives the public and scares the citizens and does one for the citizens dishonest work, and distances himself in the next election from this hall. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41682	Eighteen minutes and 20 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41683	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the cause of this debate is the amendment the government has accepted and adopted by the committee in charge. That, indeed, is a good cause for two reasons. You who defend this law are trying to convince the public, I suppose, that you can hardly convince us, because, we follow, we read, we know what we get, that it is that the Guardian of Citizens has not submitted the amendment, he has already submitted the initiative. Now, the question is, if he had submitted the amendment, would you have, then, accepted that amendment? Why don't you talk about it? If you had accepted it then you could have done most of your work on the Committee, so I say this is a good reason, that initiative to turn it into an amendment to the Committee. But it's that you don't accept, I, here, I want to say the amendment, and you say the Citizens' Protector's Initiative, and it's quite all the same, it's that you could accept that you had a wish. You have passed many laws, which, above all, have deceived the public of Serbia, which you have deceived your European mentors, who, again, deceive or blackmail you on that European path, as you like to say, so, I don't know, you have passed a Law on information of public importance and, most of all, you have chosen the Trustee for that information. So, for example, you passed the Civil Protection Act and, with a force of 126, you chose the Protector of Citizens. So you passed the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, so again, by force called 126 votes, you chose the director of that agency as well. And what we now have from these laws and the appointments of those persons, which, some of them, are foreseen even by the Constitution, or the obligation of Parliament to be governed by the Constitution. We have a fact that you don't respect these people, that you don't respect their opinion, that you don't respect what they do. Then a good question was asked here – if it is your opinion of them, you chose them, why don't you change them? And if you don't think you should change them, then they're doing well? There is one discrepancy that you should explain, above all, to the citizens of Serbia who are monitoring the work of this parliament. Should we remind you that a month or two ago there was an incursion, or a robbery of the premises of this same Protector of citizens, and that, imagine, why, it was officially said, because the state didn't have the means to secure a normal door and a normal lock in the rooms where the Protector of the citizens and his service, the computer and so on, that I didn't talk about how many tattoos all these so-called independent regulatory bodies were; and they didn't have the rooms, and they didn't have the equipment, and they didn't have the money to employ a certain number of people. You're doing it all in order. Here, last case, this anti-corruption agency, you have so announced that this agency will publish property cards, as you call it, public figures and officials in Serbia. And what happened? Now Serbia should whine and cry for ministers who sleep on the branch, who live eating air, who walk, because they say they have no apartment in their property cards, no salary, no car. Indeed, we should feel sorry for the fate of these people. This is a small joke, but it's written every day by the media based on what they found on that agency's website. This speaks of your unseriousness and your irresponsible business towards what you want to present here as your responsible relationship with both the citizens and the work you do. When the State Auditor started certain criminal charges, I don't know whether or not the guilty, and he could, against some ministers, then the Prime Minister said he was going to send some kind of bookkeeper training because they didn't do their job well. Now we see, when it comes to the Anti-Corruption Agency, that the problem with the secretaries that didn't get the data right on the website. Indeed, it is amazing how you insult the intelligence of citizens and how you make fun of the patience of Serbian citizens. Let us now return to this amendment, in fact, to this law, which does not allow it to be called the listening law, which it is, but well, it is officially the Law of Electronic Communications and so on, but I will, through the debate, convince you that it is the law that will be in the most cruel way possible when it is applied to violate fundamental human rights. You know well that today in Serbia and you, Madam Minister, you should know that any sick mind that has 100,000 euros can listen to whoever it wants. And you should know, it's a public secret in Serbia, that such a sick mind, whose party is funded by Stanko Subotic Cane, is listening from one of its coll-centers and members of the SRS. Did you in this law predict how you could prevent it? Of course not. You don't care about that, you have some other visions and some other way, in fact, you're passing the law just to meet some kind of, how you like to brag, the European norm, and it basically means nothing. And you know well, too, that newspapers are very often flooded with various transcripts, not just transcripts of protected witnesses, but also transcripts of phone conversations of ministers, former, present ones. And no one ever knew the right way to deny or explain where it came from in the media. So, we've had so far, it's the essence and beginning of what I want to talk about, in part and tracking and listening and monitoring e-mails. You know, when you announced that law on tracking e-mails, the whole professional public got on its feet. You were then, like, stopping it, but, now, through this law you allow it. You thought it could go unnoticed. It is not true that this Article 128 and Article 130, of this law, do not allow for a certain period of time a violation of human rights in a way to monitor phone conversations, to monitor e-mails. We've had a lot of bad and negative experiences with security services in the past and 20 and 30, but don't forget, and these last 10 years. Our security services didn't work, and they don't work today, which is the job of the security service, which is to take care of the security of the state, the territorial integrity of the state, they're already dealing with, some, so they're determining someone who might be in someone's opinion a state enemy, and they're being monitored, they're recording, their conversations are being monitored. If someone serious, not to use a more difficult word, today can believe, let's say, that the so-called "diaries" of Ratko Mladic, I say, so-called, because no one has yet proven that these are his diaries, in his house have been all these years and that, just two or three months ago, they were found and discovered, and out of that house of security, police, BIA, CIA, MIA, they're not coming out. Can anyone really believe that? No, it was a reason to extend the end of the trial to Vojislav Seselj, so that the Hague prosecutor's office would ask the Search Council to include in the paper "Divnik" or part of Ratko Mladic's "Divnik" in the case file of Vojislav Seselj. Of course, you could have heard two days ago at the status conference that he insisted on getting a full transcript of that "data" because if there is, and if it is credible, releasing material for Vojislav Seselj. Next, what was it done for? Why did the services do that? To be able to live on Ratko Mladic's wife, Bosi Mladic, to bring the woman in, arrest, file criminal charges. Why are they doing this? In order for Ratko Mladić to appear to them from somewhere and say, "Don't harass my family, I'll turn myself in." Now, you see that nothing works for you, you're free of both "mie" and "cie" and "bie" and "bie" and harassing the Ratko Mladic family and trying to extend your stay in The Hague tribunal of Vojislav Seselj, nothing helps you! Defiant Serbian heroes are fighting both your totalitarianism and your dictatorship in Serbia, and against what you carry to The Hague tribunal in the way you can do it, of course. We also heard at the Status Conference of Vojislav Seselj, that the UN tribunal Secretariat is asking for some information from some services in Serbia, and that they sent it three years ago, if they sent it, and that there is a lack of or sufficient good communication between this Committee in Serbia for co-operation with The Hague tribunal and the UN tribunal, which, of course, is a lie, because it is true that the UN tribunal's prosecution had access to all possible files that existed in Serbia, all possible, and took whatever they needed. We talked a few days ago, here, about Vojislav Seselj's file, the 4,000-page book, and it has a lot to do with this law that we're talking about today with members of 128 and 130 of this bill, as well as with the need, as you say, that those citizens' protection initiatives have turned into amendments and were adopted here. We, too, have Serbian radicals, amendments to members 128 and 130, and we will talk when these members come to order. But I want to warn you who will vote for this bill again, on the case of the police record of Vojislav Seselj. This law will not endanger only you personally or just us personally. This law is also very dangerous because it will endanger the members of your families, your friends, your best friends, because it will not only listen to you, or just us. Look at the file of Vojislav Seselj, there, on these 4,000 pages, there are documents of the security service, so you can also see how a false conclusion can be made based on some document and how false conclusions are carried out about someone. Since not only are they left alone, not only are they being followed, but the members of his family, so that you see the document that we will all have after the adoption of this law, we probably have now, but when the law is passed, then you will be able to use it, to see the document where it is said – Vojislav Seselj was in France, called his wife Jadranka by phone, and told her how it was there. And that's interesting for security services, because it's allowed to be followed by Vojislav Seselj. Then, you will see, the sister of Vojislav Seselj, Dragica, phoned the Cavavoski Kosta to complain that he had information that in the women's prison he beat Vojislav Seselj and that she, as a friend, invited the Cavoski Bones to try to help. So, what a concerned sister, at some point, is talking to some phone, is being followed by security services. Well, to plant the conversation of someone who was planted by security services, say, the mother of Vojislav Seselj, the late Danica, so someone comes forward and says, "Here, because Vojislav is in prison, I would like to offer you a material help of about 100, 200 marks. She, a woman, promuturous, smart, thank God, gave birth to Vojislav Seselj, but that's the only way she can be, to understand that it's a bribery and says – no, thank you, I don't need your help. And this was supposed to be planted to prove on this basis that all Vojislav Seselj with, then, called some anti-state elements, was in contact abroad so on. So, take care of these examples of Vojislav Seselj's file, I've made it very clear to you and I've turned my attention to them to point out once again that by passing this law, you're not only jeopardizing yourself personally. If you're endangering yourself personally, you have the right to do so. But you're jeopardizing your families, your friends and your gods, yours, ours, all of us. We want to stand up to it, and we want to talk about it publicly, and that's why we're talking. I just have one more sentence to say and that's it. I am sincerely concerned about my colleagues defending this defenseless law, provided they think what they're saying and what they're defending. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41684	16 minutes and 10 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. In the electronic system, MP Velimir Ilic was registered. Do you still want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41685	Madam Chairman, we've been here listening to stories and various discussions that simply want to convince us that everything is regular and that everything is fine. We have no reason to react to anything if everything is okay and everything is in accordance with the applicable regulations, if everything is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. But some of you want to convince us of something they can't convince us of. This law should be withdrawn and put in a regular procedure. I remember perfectly, that was the other day, the president scheduled a session Friday at 12 o'clock. As president of the Committee, I responded, I called for professional services and asked when there could be a debate in principle, not to be held before the Committee. I was told that the first gym was available Monday at 14 o'clock. We called the board. You've completed your search in 15 minutes to fourteen hours, so when we got to the board, we turned out to be ridiculous. We thanked those who came to the board and said it was all over, that they could go home. Therefore, the procedure is not respected. There was no time to prepare or amend, nothing. This is so express done, dragged, and you are now defending it as regular and as normal, and you are making us some abnormal people who want to attack something that is most normal, to make us some people who don't even know what the Rules of Procedure or procedure are, they don't know anything. Mrs. Komic, I've been an MP since 1993, in almost all the councils, so I've been leaving, when I was in some other functions since '93. A year. Don't convince me now about some democracy, about something that you are now introducing, placing and interrupting unauthorized, outside of all possible rules of procedure, people, political parties when they want to deliver their opinion. There is no respect for the procedure in accordance with the electronic communications law, it has been violated, and therefore the law must be withdrawn from the procedure. Don't embarrass yourself. The fact that you dumped the quorum, it stands, but you couldn't start and finish the principle debate without the parent board and without people who were supposed to deliver the amendments, discuss, report, be abstention, bring out some opinions here and so on. You know perfectly well how the procedure is, I don't want to teach you. You want here now with some people who phone and receive instructions when they need to answer and tell us something, and don't get off the phone while some others discuss, of course, then report and interfere with the work of parliament, because they are false. Mr. Milivojevic has been on the phone for half an hour, and he knows everything, and someone is giving him instructions when to answer and tell us about prosperity here. Do you think we believe that "goat can keep cabbage"? Is that what you think? Do you think this Serbia is so naive that it knows nothing? Do you think it's okay that one party, regardless of which, has both military security and BIA, and the judiciary, and judges, and runs a variety of tips and so on? He can't! Now he wants to appoint a governor. Everything, I'm a patriarch. I don't know how you lost it. That's where you made a big kick, and there's something you have to do, you've been a little careless and you haven't been awake enough to do it. Don't convince us, now, here, that it's all right, that it's all right, that everything is in accordance with the law, and so on. It's true the Ministry didn't have time to deliver the amendments either. And it is true that it has submitted, I think, a minister, ten initiatives to the Committee, to pass through the Committee on Monday through the Ministry's amendment, because the ministry was unable to deliver the amendments. Come on, now we're saying-- the citizen's protector didn't deliver in time, he delivered the initiative. All right. But why did the Ministry deliver ten initiatives? Because that didn't have time to deliver the amendments either, because you guys made it so fast, you did it over the weekend, that the public didn't react at all. As did the Citizens' Protector, the Ministry also delivered initiatives for the adoption of amendments on the Committee. That's not right. Now, some who knew, so they delivered in advance, I see some lady you adopted five amendments, it was probably some deal, where did she, the only one, show up? We in New Serbia didn't get the time to deliver the amendments at all... The MPs went home, while we gathered together, of course – it was all over. Many have not delivered the amendments. Now, you, when you want to set us up, and when you explain it to us professionally, it turns out that you're all right, and we're all wrong. We sit here for nothing. Here I see MPs who have been following the work of Parliament for years, and they know, they were both opposition and position, that happiness is what needs to be changed. You can't explain now the fact that I'm disgusting myself, I'm chilling when I heard that statement the other day, but I haven't heard your comment about it, gentlemen, you, who now convince us that everything is regular, that everything is fine, that everything is in good interest and so on, I've heard the president of the state who gave the statement of the following content: "We will never allow this group to come to power. I'll use the last atom of strength not to come to power! "Is it in a democratic state that the head of a party, the president of a state, doesn't allow anyone? Well, then why are the elections? Why are there elections in this country? Do political parties have the right to participate in the elections? To win, to lose, to be a position, to be an opposition? It's all a normal part. It's democracy. No one in this country can... At the same time, someone in this country was supposed to ask for the resignation of the president of the state! He came out with a threat that it couldn't happen, that he wouldn't let the last atom of power spend, and so on. What does that mean? What message is that? That's why we're afraid of this! That is why we cannot accept something that is unacceptable for us, that some strange things are allowed in a democratic state that wants to join the EU. We believe this is the brakes of entering the EU, this is the way of violating the Rules of Procedure on Parliament's work! This is a big brake and you need to make an apology to the MPs, pull this back and put it in a regular procedure. It's the only way to get out of trouble, because you have a problem, you've had a problem countless times, but this is one of the big problems that you unfortunately don't notice. Thus, many things we know well. Don't think many of you make mistakes here when they think we don't know. Do you know that there's talk of who's being filmed, what's being filmed, who's who whose wife, whose general, met with Thaci, where he was sitting, where he bit by a house and drove him to another place? It's all said in the streets. There are people in your service who inform us every day. Well, we're not yesterday. We know this Serbia and these Serbian citizens. In many services there are honest people, extremely honest and honest people who come and say. You don't think we know how to buy, how to buy, how to do and so on. It is more rude for the State Secretary of Justice to come out and say – some political parties worked with Sharic, some and some important politicians financed. Which one?- I'm Now he comes out and says "earth clan" is about to kill some politicians. What's that? Who was the commanding officer?- I'm sorry. Who was the master of the Earthlings?- I'm sorry. And you think we don't know who ordered those two Zemuns to kill themselves?- I'm sorry. We know who the perpetrators are. We know who arrested Radovan Karadzic. What service, which man, well, we all know that. Who betrayed him, who said what, we know everything! Don't think and be so convinced that today the opposition doesn't know anything, that we are little children and that you can come and teach us how everything is in order, how you respect the Rules of Procedure, and we are some who violate the Rules of Procedure, we don't know anything about the Rules of Procedure. And you give us a lecture here, you interrupt, and so on and so forth. And we want some of this country's institutions in order! We don't trust the party action of individual services, because their intentions are not good, especially after this statement by the president of the state. And everything can be put on political ground. Why? Because there are some things hidden from the public. I showed here the document the other day that the President of Smederevo Municipality signed a contract on the construction of a refinery, certified, last year, and that an opinion was given from the D.A.'s office that the contract was in accordance with the law, and that it was valid and so on, and no procedure has passed. Will someone be responsible for something like that? He won't. Don't expect us to replicate to you, to argue with you here. We have no confidence in you, and the same, less Serbian citizens believe in you. And there was a lot of deception, a lot of fraud, a lot of trouble, and that's why we don't believe it. And it manifests at every turn. And you will see it well when the elections come, when you check yourself, how much trust you enjoy with the citizens of Serbia. So let's not let the goat keep the cabbage, I repeat the old folk, because that's impossible, and you keep wanting it. You put "Satellite" as a state secret and kept it until recently. Why? Why do you keep it a state secret? Let's get this straight. Please, the breaking news in the Dnevnik, that martyr in RTS, agrees to continue to be the director, doesn't know any more, poor, nothing to do, except to crawl around Belgrade, and begs, he hits the breaking news, it's news from some yellow press country, which I don't see us in some very, very friendly relationship. That's his breaking news. His information and so on. So, everything's under control and you think you control everything. You're wrong, it's not all under control, a lot of things are known extremely well. Serbia is small and large enough that no one in it will be able to hide those secrets that have been happening so far and hidden from the public. So we know everything, and that's why we act like one. That's why we're unhappy. Keep going! But I suggest you withdraw this law, don't embarrass yourself, respect the procedure, honor the institution of the Protector of the Citizens, or replace it. Respect the Constitution or change it. Thank you, ma'am.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41686	Fifteen minutes, thank you. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41687	In order not to open up replicas, I will use the time of the DS Parliamentary Group. So, the truth is, I just said that a traffic and connections committee was called up and we didn't have a quorum twice, and that's why he was discussing the Citizens' Protectors' Initiative from the third time. I don't want to ask you, "Can a goat keep cabbage?" If she jumps off the street probably can't, she probably learned to steal a cabbage there. I have to ask the question again – who in this country controls the work of security services? The Security Committee. If the head of the parliamentary group, one political party, has no confidence in his member of the Security Committee, if he thinks he is incompetent, is not up to the job, change it or let him do his own job, but don't do his own internal struggles, with his staff, to lead in this room, let him do it at party meetings. I am absolutely convinced that the members of the Security Committee have the strength, capacity and ability to carry out the work for which they have been given the mandate of the Security Committee. We recently had an unpleasant situation that the leader of a political party was attacked on the street. After an attack by the leader of the political party at the trial, he said, "I don't care who hit me, I'm interested in the background of the attack on me! I'm interested in who the man who hit me was communicating with, who he phoned, who he was communicating with, who was giving him instructions! ''If we had this law, we'd have a list of phone calls that that attacker made right before the attack on the political party leader, we'd have stored the data he'd been communicating with a year ago, and the court would, in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Act in the prescribed procedure, ask the operator for those data, deliver them to the competent institutions, and we'd know whether there was a political background or not. There's a practical example of why this law is good. I don't want to open up the replicas and get into what the State Secretary of Justice says and where he gets that knowledge from, but when we call on the Secretary of State's information, well, doesn't he say maybe that the Secretary of State said that someone, who, as a kid, obviously didn't get a chance to play with that little electric train, so as a grown-up, he was getting locomotives over the buttocks, wasn't he on direct contact with some people who run the drug clan and who were called Sharici? Why doesn't someone talk about it, a little while, when it's already called for all kinds of information? Why doesn't someone who calls and quotes the State Secretary of Justice quote him in that case, so he doesn't say, well, didn't this Sarancic make us all in this country "somovics" and get some locomotives over the butts, and then place money through some Darko Saric in criminal activity?- I'm sorry. Well, let it come out, well, let it be commendable to that fact, let it be quoted by the State Secretary at the Justice Department on the basis of that information. Well, when he does, then, let's remember those old sayings – it's much easier to accept the light burden of judgment only, and to throw away the heavy burden of condemnation of others, and it's much easier to be such a man, than to be a man who seeks eternally a shred in the eyes of others, and does not see the balvanas loaded on his own back! Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41688	Four minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Miroslav Markicevic, would you like a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41689	Dear Vice President, I would like to replicate what Mr Milivojevic said. Since I am the only member of the New Serbia Security Committee, it was obvious to have been referring to me. Mr Milivojevic, I am sorry that one service, which needs to worry about the security of Serbian and Serbian citizens, thanks to you and your speeches, put here and illuminated, may be more than it deserves. It's popularly called "secret police." Well, it's not'secret' because they want it to be'secret', it's 'cause it's the nature of their business. I don't doubt those people at all, there. In my personal contact, on a committee where we were in BIA, without quorum, we had a very friendly and open conversation. But the way you have no need to defend these people, as if you were employed by the BIA, puts us in further doubt. I'm telling you and I'm telling the citizens of Serbia, and let it go to my expense, here, and I'm responsible first as a member of the Security Committee. As far as the BIA Security Committee is concerned, there's no, absolutely no, maybe because we're not capable. No problem, no problem. It's just that the citizens of Serbia should know, given the way the Security Committee is called in, since it doesn't call at all, since the Committee on Defence and Security doesn't have a president either, so I want the citizens to know that there is no control of the Security Committee or someone to tell me as a member of the Security Committee, Mr Milivojevic, what is that control? Does it take me without the Security Committee, and the decisions and meetings of that board, to go to the BIA alone and ask them what they're doing, say! Do I have those powers? Do I have the right to do that? I don't think I have, like, to play any sheriff, to collect the media, to have someone tell me how the laws work. But this, I think, in the BIA now, if they're watching this, they're getting baptized, left and right, and they're pulling their hair off because of these statements of yours. I cited one example that BIA director, said, man, honestly what kind of problems they have, and you're vulgarizing it, and you're just trying to arrest a man, who was in New Serbia's position, Mr. Sarancic, to explain everything. How you forgot Mr. Interior Minister's statement yesterday that what you're talking about, regarding Sarancic and Saric, the police have no knowledge. But it's obvious, Mr. Milivoevich, that you have knowledge. What are you waiting for? Go to the police and give what you know, not to vulgarize and politicize a topic that deeply concerns human rights and the privacy of life! It is not in the interest of this parliament either, it is not in the interest of the BIA, which is a patriotic service for me and which should work in the interests of the citizens of Serbia, and not in politics here and paint 'yellow'. These people, there, don't deserve it, Mr. Milivoevich! I trust them until proven otherwise. This is just a matter of human rights and privacy violation in ways that operators can use, and that they have so far. Obviously, there's something else we don't know anymore. Show Milivojevic, are you BIA employees? I haven't heard from the director of the BIA. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41690	Three minutes. People's MP, you've used your time for replication. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41691	Mrs. Komic, you could give me the same replica as Mr. Markic, because he appeared as a member of the Defence and Security Committee, and if that is not possible, to replicate Mr. Milivojevic in this way, I will use the time of the parliamentary group. Can I use the possibility of replication? No, I don't. Okay. This amendment by Mrs. Banovic, which we have absorbed two hours ago, which was adopted, opened up numerous controversy and I am obliged to address both Parliament and the public because of the many truths you have heard, especially in the presentation of my colleague Milivojevic, and because, not only do I have my obligation but also moral responsibility, because the president of our parliamentary group, Mr. Dragan Todorovic, has recently been removed from the position of the chairman of the Defence and Security Committee, precisely because all this is what Mr. Milivojevic was talking about, is the civil control of the security sector, which comes out of the law that gives us the opportunity for such a thing, indeed one big farce. Because Mr. Dragan Todorovic was also removed for reasons that we could not, with the assistance of the Security Service, as well as other members of the DS Committee, G17, the SPS, be forced to clean up a number of affairs that have occurred, with which the service is familiar. Mr Milivojevic, I know that you are zealously following the trial of our President, Dr Vojislav Seselj, and I believe that you also bought these four parts of the book "Police File", of 4,000 pages, which we have spoken of a lot, if you haven't, I invite you to do so, but I think you bought, however, one other book or you have it in your possession, if you don't have it, I will give it to you personally, it's a book published by our president just prior to going to The Hague, the "Mafia Poodle-Nobojsa Covic". The book includes three actions by the State Security Service, under the conspiratory term "Shumadia – Sword and cactus". In these three actions, Mr. Milivojevic, the main actors are DOS officials, at the time, as the book's name says, one of the vice-presidents of the government Nebojsa Covic, so let's not list the Commissioners of Zandarmeria, through the others, whom the Service was listening to, and we asked the Agency's director, Mr. Vukadinovic, to give us a clear answer, so Mr. Todorovic called one special session last year with this topic. Whether the Service did so, we stated, and we have owned that book, that these documents are coded and that participants are people who are current carriers and now some responsible functions in public enterprises and elsewhere, including in ministries. To this day, we have not received an answer! Will the public now trust you, Mr Milivojevic, or Vojislav Seselj? What do you think? I think the whole public, as the entire world's public will see on this process that he's leading to The Hague, will already win. When did it happen that Dr. Vojislav Seselj published something in his books that he was not sure was true? He's the only man who, created such a possibility, because he's in The Hague, published his entire police record. You have seen that since 1981, and the names of your party's officials, Mr Micunovic, Boris Tadic and many others who were so-called dissidents of that time, have later gone to some very different option, and our president has remained in the positions of the ideology of Serbian nationalism and predicted what will unfortunately happen today with our people. Don't talk to us. I've been a member of the Defence and Security Committee for six years. I think it's safe and responsible, as a member of the SRS, that I'm working on these sessions my job. But if BIA, which, as Mrs Radeta mentioned earlier, knows exactly that some private persons, besides, remember the case of Janjusevic, who admitted it, as Stanko Subotić did, I even mentioned to a certain Rank Tadic, who is related to Boris Tadic, at one of the sessions of the Security Committee, owns, or service or we have indications that they own listening equipment, high-sofisted, which can be on the market today, as you know, you are well informed in this respect, that it is found for 100,000 euros or less. Mr. Milivojevic, how then do we get answers to specific questions when it's all a farce and when this law is just giving us the opportunity, and you see that it was before, that without any decision by the competent judicial authorities, political inexperiences are being listened to? As far as I'm concerned, and all of these Serbian radical colleagues here, we have a very highly built security culture, you know, and that's what our president taught us. But as for all the others who have committed certain corruption crimes, those who today present themselves to act in the political life of Serbia, which BIA knows and has information based on our direct questions, here again, I will mention this famous meeting in October 2007, at the Hotel "Ric" in Paris, Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandr Vukic with Stanko Sutotic. Our service, like that, just to say something, said that the nature and character of these encounters didn't know, but she didn't tell us they weren't there. Please, if I ask you for an answer to a particular question, if the BIA in the context of meeting some quasipolitans, who have kidnapped mandates, who have tried coup, etc., with a desire to bring inconspicuous consequences, first of all, for life and for what it does in The Hague, Dr Vojislav Seselj, if they meet in a country, with a person from Interpol's red warrant and have knowledge of it, and do not give us an answer to that in particular, and therefore, at the third session of the Committee someone gets to know and says – Todorovic abuses the function of the chairman of the Defence and Security Committee, because he wants to know clearly the link between criminals and certain politicians in this country. I believe that everything that's been going on back ten years, and as far as, first of all, the work of security structures, is exclusively in the function of extending what's been going on since 1945, when the famous Department of the Protection of Peoples was founded, later the Federal UDBA, that it was always in the function of preventing political insatisfactors from doing their job responsibly and fighting for their ideas. We don't have a problem with that, but don't do that, we'll keep working, listening to us or not. Both Cane Frog and these and them and services, we are people who have defined ourselves to fight for a better future for Serbia, for a better future for all children of Serbia and for future generations. No one's gonna stop us from doing it or what scares us. But we ask both parliament and you, who are in power, to respect the basic democratic postulates and that the function of the security sector is entrusted to the opposition, or the SRS, and that we can responsibly continue to do our job, in order to keep the public informed of what our task is and why the citizens here chose us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41692	Eight minutes and 15 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41693	The esteemed chairman, respected colleagues, in a strange way and I do not think that responsibility lies solely in this assembly, the debate on this law has been passed on to a field that absolutely does not define this law. So, I would just ask that we go back, if possible, to what is really the content of this law, at least, if we don't agree on what those solutions might be. First of all, citizens need to make a thousand points – this is not a law that defines, what is called a colloquial, listening. So in no way does this law define it. There are other laws that have been passed, and if you think they don't have enough instruments to control, we can open up a debate in the Assembly. The Security Committee can launch such a debate, let's see what the parent laws are, which should be changed eventually, in order to establish a greater degree of control over the work of the security services. In this regard, you have our full support, to open the debate, and that, in the most responsible way possible and we see, how on the one hand, we allow the state authorities to fight crime uninterruptedly, and that, on the other hand, the citizens are perfectly calm that their rights will not be violated by the abuse of these services. What I want, too, to point out, this isn't about BIA. I don't even know why the BIA is the subject of our debate. This law absolutely does not deal with the Security Information Agency. We have passed a law that regulates the way of organisation, rights, jurisdiction, obligations etc., BIA and it is certainly not the law on electronic communications. In that sense, we don't decide here between the BIA and the Trustee, or the Citizens' Protector. We don't choose between being right about BIA, because this isn't about the BIA, or whether it's right about the Citizens' Protector, because it's also not about the Citizens' Protector. This is about a law that defines a very unequivocally and very usefully an important area, which is electronic communications. We live in the 21st century and find ourselves as people with enormous responsibility to, on the one hand, edit this area by enabling citizens to benefit from all their latest technologies, and on the other hand, to protect citizens from the abuse of these same newest technologies. And this controversy and this debate lasts for those countries that have established these areas 10 or 15 years ago and clearly defined, because the issue of human rights is the permanent issue of every democratic society. Because human rights can also be threatened by new technologies and the development of new institutions, and the need for society to regulate other areas. So I just want to point out one thing, we're not discussing listening here, because that's not what this law is talking about. He's not about listening. We're not discussing the BIA here, because we're the law that defined the work of security information services. We don't even discuss human rights here, because it's unequivocal that protecting human rights and civil rights is a subject that can, of course, be associated with every law, including this law. But if nothing is violated by the Constitution, if other laws are defined as a way of ensuring security and security, and the work of services and bodies dealing with it, then I don't think it's fair to the citizens that we represent here, to lead them into a serious delusion that this law defines in any way the subject of listening or to be dealt with in any way by the jurisdiction of security services. So it's just not about that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41694	Four minutes and 40 seconds have been used since the time of the parliamentary group president. Anyone else want a word? (No) We move on to the next amendment. The People's MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The word is wanted by MP Milica Vojic Markovic. Given that the amendment is part of the law, it uses the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41695	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I have to react simply because, for several hours now, we have been listening to what can't be rationally explained in a way, how it is trying to do it, to shut up, to explain rationally something that is completely ridiculous. So the citizens of Serbia could understand what is so complicated that they only understand from a few simple sentences. Let's just say, if the court's decision had to be sought, it could devalue the work of the BIA. In that case, the president of the court, who would then have to inform the prosecutor, would have to be informed first. In the end, it would have to be seduced in the office, and the scribe Pera could brag about who he was listening to. So one representative of the ruling coalition, in a few sentences, explained this law. Don't be surprised, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, why we're talking about listening, we've been reading the paper. Furthermore, I must say that this is a very dangerous substitute for thesis, and it is no wonder that so many people of the ruling coalition resist to replace you in this way. They talked about all the laws that were passed, they talked about what was all the setting and what had preceded this law that they were trying to pass as cowards' eggs. They didn't say two things. Again, the only real democratic government, the government of Vojislav Kostunica, has really done a great thing for democracy in this country only by forming two institutions -- the Institute of Information Commissioners of Public Matter and the Protector of Citizens. The two institutions are extremely important for the development of democracy in Serbia and are important for protecting the human rights of citizens. If in this country the Guardian of Citizens and the Trustee points out that something is wrong, I guess we should try to hear what they're saying and not talk the way they're saying it today - they're scaring the public. They don't scare the public. It is their obligation to warn the public of what is wrong and where, in which places the law is violated and human rights violated. One more thing to say, when I mention the government of Vojislav Kostunica, the Constitution was also adopted in 2006. We have a member of the 41st Constitution where he stands clearly – the secrecy of means of communication is unhurtful. So, extremely simply, extremely precisely, I don't need to comment any further. We mention European standards several times. Please, gentlemen, read what European standards say. The retained data that we are talking about today is an integral part of communication, as important as the content of communication itself. So it's quite clear, if you've read it, that's all it means. I'm not a lawyer. Things are much simpler with me than with a lawyer. It was preceded by this law, though, within a tight deadline, because we got on Friday, a few very important things. Those who read the law carefully said that there were certain inaccuracies that could lead to abuse, so it could be thought that these inaccuracies were random, but when the amendments of the Protector of Citizens were rejected, then it was quite clear that this was not about random inaccuracies, but about the deliberate inaccuracies that should lead to this. This, in addition to these intentions, is also the fact that we have received the urgent procedure of this law, although, indeed, whether the procedure of its adoption to extend two or three days would not change anything in particular, and there would be a public debate. So the law came without a public debate. The professional public didn't say anything about him. I also thank Mrs Grubjesic, who spoke about who the members of the task force were, that's very interesting, because usually we don't know about the law, especially with those who are interested in the public, such as, say, the Information Act, we couldn't find out, even through the BIA, who are members of the task force. Now we have received information on who are members of the task force, but in the media some members of the task force, I am talking about Mr. Veljanovski, saying that they did not write the proposal of this law, that they wrote another version of the other version also mentions the Citizens' Protector, and also mentions the Commissioner for Public Information. There were several versions of the law here. One, worst of them, came here to the Assembly, like this. In addition to my claim, some ruling parties, some who are now in power, are very abstentioned when it comes to this law, I am talking about Socialists who say they will also submit amendments to these things that the Citizens' Protector has submitted. So, one story's getting a little lighty. Now, are we going to call listening to what someone needs to know who he talked to, who he talked to, when he talked to, where he talked, how long he talked, what kind of relationship he talked to, so it's totally funny not to say it's a bug. You can call him whatever you want, that's it. I must remind you, gentlemen of the Democrats and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, Nixon has fallen in America because of unauthorized listening, and you in this country, which you want to turn into a police state, you want to institutionalize the listening. It's very dangerous! Don't play with all that! Don't, by any means, say that the need for society is what you want to do. You're talking about the Constitutional Court and how to ask the Constitutional Court to interpret something. Gentlemen, none of you mention one thing – recently the Constitutional Court brought down an unconstitutional provision of article 55 of the current Telecommunications Act, because it opened up the possibility that without a court ruling if it was prescribed by some other law, as you are trying to do, or with it, could violate the privacy of communication. Take care. It's much more harmless this 55th in that law than these members of yours, here, are before us today. So let's not make a story about how things are sticking together, let's talk in simple language, openly, that citizens really understand what we're talking about, and that there aren't any stories that don't exist and don't write in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41696	Seven minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41697	Mrs. Comic, I'm going to spread a little bit to the other amendments, since it's all about some kind of relationship. For the public, I have to say that on page 50. The bill, under XVII, finds a title that reads: The secrecy of electronic communications, the legal interception and the retention of data. Dear viewers, interception is a new listening term. Since I've had the chance to hear everything and everything in this room today, I'm not belittled when I say everything and everything, I think the discussion was good. It is right to warn the public of something that is always a danger. I find it appropriate to warn and inform the public very specifically, not to frighten, Mrs. Nado, because every day since 6:00, I relax the citizens of Serbia, because I am going to these promotions of the "police file of Vojislav Seselj" where the good part is also talked about the measures of the state security service. When you say electronic communications, it has a broader and narrow aspect. You can do anything on the computer today and what used to be classical communication, phone, "allo, Požega, come in," now it can be done on the computer. I can also speak to you as a man who helped Vojislav Seselj well, since one witness was an expert in interceptive conversations. It's a police officer who, during the war in Bosnia, finished law school, was led by some, there, their services and never in his life did a technical part of the interception of talks, but witnessed an expert on what anyone said, etc. To declassify it, I communicated with all the people who technically did the job, from certain places, where there was a divisor, where they joined, etc. to prove that man is a total layman. Of course, Vojislav Seselj ran him over. If I didn't go further, I wouldn't fall under any greater influence. There used to be a divider, a key has a man from Homeland Security, comes and listens. Who approved the measurements? The Republic Secretary for Home Affairs, and later the Minister of the Interior. Since 1992, we have been approved by the President of the Supreme Court. Now, too, the measures are approved by the President of the Supreme Court or by the judge whom he will appoint for these matters. The measures are limited by their time duration of listening to phone conversations of the person concerned and interested, or what may be collateral damage. The purpose of listening, in the Code of Criminal Procedure, is, above all, in what is called a pre-criminal procedure, to provide evidence to the perpetrator of a crime. But I have to warn you of one more thing, there's an international standard that says – if such data comes through a harsh violation of the rules, it's thrown out of the court's file and cannot be used in court proceedings. It's the apropo this morning, the suitcase and stuff. However, the Hague tribunal is a planetary miracle, an octopus, and in one decision of the Board of Appeal, they took the view that – if the evidence value of the material that has been reached by listening exceeds the importance of the legality of the decision, then priority is given to what was recorded in relation to whether it was a legal measure. Let's move on in Serbia from those standards that are formulated by the Board of Appeal's decisions. First and foremost. What can we say today? Today, we can tell that you're being tapped by who's arriving. Does it seem a little weird to you? I would recommend to anyone who opens their car to the remote, to turn left a little bit to the right, to see if there's some punk, because it's theoretically possible that today when you click to open your car, that he shoots your code and pulls your car away, and that he didn't even rob the car, he finished the job. And I was the victim, Mrs. Matic, of that kind of crime. Here's what happened to me. It happened to me while I was away from the office for five minutes, from 9.55 to 9.02, so, seven minutes, I apologize, while I went to order coffee, that my computer reportedly left an e-mail message. Neither do I. When I came to The Hague, I was about to be arrested. An investigation has been conducted in the National Assembly, thanks to Veljak Odalovic, who has ordered an investigation to be conducted. Two, three months of investigation. I don't want to belittle anyone. They made a human report, and really according to that report, the server registered that the e-mail message had gone off that computer. And I don't know how to send e-mails to distract you. So, what did I do? I checked out that congregation e-mail address and I won't have any more in my life until Vojislav Seselj returns from The Hague because I signed that statement in The Hague. Mangup put in five words that I use as a saying, when I joke in the hallway, only two. What could have happened to me got to me. A few months later, some of them left the SRS, and they had an office next to mine. I don't doubt it. I have no proof. I don't need to doubt it. But in a conversation with a businessman who complained to me that his competition was always 15 minutes ahead of him to deliver tender documentation, and that they were two to three percent cheaper than he was and they were constantly getting a job, and he was losing his job. He did an investigation, he used a young boy who's at an electrical engineering college, who's done him a complete computer system, and he's doing it to the state authorities, by the way, and he's very familiar, and he's proved to him that he can do it by means of the Vyrles. Of course, I've been asking a little further questions, you don't want to talk about it publicly, but I need to speak publicly to free the citizens of any fear. You see, when you buy telecommunications equipment today, the manufacturer is obliged to provide you with information on how to listen to conversations. He's got a special copy. I used this to prepare the defense of Vojislav Seselj, so depending on the manufacturer to the manufacturer there are even schemes, and techniques, everything is worked out. Next, I was complained about by one who installed a telephone station in a very important institution, when he finished installing he got scared and said – who knows the computer's password and who knows the phone operator's password he can from the apartment listen to all the conversations. Well, there was an affair in the People's Assembly that two parties listened to each other through their ears, but that we should close the topic, lest we should be afraid of the people. It's small Serbia, you know. Please, in 2008, an intense discussion is about the formation of a new coalition. A transcript of the talks between Zarko Obradovic and Zoran Lilic is published in a daily list. Who could have filmed that? State shut up. Five, six, listen to them. Who are they? tycoons, mobsters, foreign intelligence, and some domestic rip-off! I don't want to mention the nicknames "maniac" and so on and so on. Can the state stop it? He has to! Is that what our country has stopped? It's not! Why? Someone's not answering to stop it. And there's the beginning and end of all of our stories. Excuse me, please, take the Boulevard of Peace to the White Court, just to remind you, and on the right there was a location where Marshall was. Two NATO pact bombs hit the Marshall building, damaged, no one wanted to fix it, you gave it to the Americans, they took down the building, they threw out construction material... Sit down, Hope! ) They took out two metres of land to avoid being irradiated, ready for a new Sorbonne land, cut down all the trees, and now they have fenced up a real concentration camp. You'll see the wire, you'll see those lanterns, lights and barbed wire on top. Do you know why they're making it here? Because close by, there is a major telecommunications system between civilian and military authorities. Let me remind you, in 1999, on the street of Prince Milos, from the American Embassy, on the second level of the basement, it comes to one room. There is a device in that room that surrounds all cables between the government and the interior ministry. They don't have to cut, they don't have to drill, they hear everything. Half of the transcripts in The Hague that appear are not provided in Sarajevo and the surrounding area, but in downtown Belgrade. Did you stop it? You're not, you're not, you're not! I'm not scaring anyone. No one. In these stands, I say, when you pick up the phone, congratulate the listener and tell him to take a little more care of his wife this year. There are such professional voyeurs. You don't have to be afraid of that. This law and all our laws never stop it, nor can nor can norm be stopped. Here, let me remind you of a high-ranking party official, while he had a close one, not to say what, at UBPOK, he used the data that UBPOK was coming to tell his friends what their mistresses were doing. Smile, you know who he is. Your boss. So, what are we talking about? This law is not about listening in. Can listening be legal? Well, it just has to be legal. And how is it in practice? It's 99% illegal here! This power to stop it! No way! There's no way to stop it. It's impossible to stop. Some people boast about listening to what anybody said. I remember, in The Hague, a man brought a transcript of a conversation between Tadic and Tomislav Nikolic. He boasted about the transcript, what was who he promised? As long as there is a crumb of those benefits, political, interesting or any other, you bring these laws for free, you swear for free, you write here for free that this law is not about listening and intercepted conversations. Who's going to believe you? Well, you don't believe it yourself. No one believes that. No one will stop those services and those individuals, as long as the head of security of a tycoon is a former high-ranking state security officer, you understand everything. Ask around how these equipment is provided. Through who? What company? How? Well, you know everything. You absolutely know everything. And we killed ourselves by solving the legal form of listening, the legal form of restrictions on the freedom of an individual, and here, they're illegally unregulated. Unregulated, abandoned, people do their job and they don't care. They don't care! From time to time in some newspapers, and it's known which, it appears from well-informed unofficials, well, fuck, everything he said to each other in a mustache, literally, with a quote, and yet greasy, bold to remember. Is there a procedure in place? It's not. Why? Well, on someone's orders, someone did it. What's the problem? Many young pensioners are state security pensioners, so the docks, the poor, well, they only know the job, so they offer themselves to everyone. How many of them are employed in public state-owned enterprises, controlling officials so that DS or some other party can be at the source of information, that the thugs in their own ranks don't mess things up. In some companies there are no more chairs than former police officers, young pensioners – they keep records of who came to work, etc. Well, have you heard of what he's setting up for his own, what was it, envelopes? Mrs. Matic, do you know that public enterprises, state-owned enterprises, are not conducting a tender. You haven't been notified? Based on the Ministry of Finance's opinion, they don't respect the law, they don't care. What are we talking about, my people? About what? We all know that. Of course, you don't need to spread paranoia. A man needs to live normally. You shouldn't lie, you shouldn't steal, you shouldn't commit some murders, some crimes. Everything else is allowed, you have to live normally. And that is a message for everyone. You live normally. Look at these books of Vojislav Seselj. There's 4,000 pages. Promoted his ideology. He didn't pay attention to either left or right. Constantly, too, talked. He knows he's being followed. That's why he had to lick the ice cream when he turned to him. Well, it is. That's the lesson we need to learn. Let's not talk conspiracy theories. You're listening to each other. I can tell you a secret now. There's no Tadic trust in you. He's listening to it. He doesn't know who's working on his head, whether Paytic, whether Gilas, whether he's doing it or not. Be serious. You'll all be struck by this law. I won't. He's got nothing to listen to, I tell him everything in public in a mustache. As far as you're concerned, take care. "The dome is watching, the flesh is pulling out." He doesn't trust you here. You know, whoever entangles in power, he likes to be sinless. Tadic also wants to be blameless, however, with Cvljana failed. There, you see, there are no sinless ones. This law also concerns what is called – interceptive conversations. It's something, like, a humane term for, like, listening. There used to be a tap by having to go under the table, and then in the phone, and this, and that. Now there's modern means, now it can go from a distance, with that stick, etc. Now there's footage with those little cockroaches, those mosquitoes that fly, etc. Anything is possible today. But, guys, don't worry about it. Live normally and honestly, and go straight, and you don't care about both left and right. Have your system of values and be an honest and honest man. We need to protect every individual from the abuse that people in power would commit. It is the task of all of us, and it is the task of all of us to ask the representatives of the authorities to listen, listen, listen, etc. to arrest it immediately. To finish the job. You have an obligation to protect the security of this state and from foreign intelligence services, not to blow up the press and have them put it all in the paper. Foreign intelligence needs nothing more than to buy our newspapers and read them. All military and state secrets can be found out. We don't have military anymore, though. All the secrets know. There's nothing secret about us. It's only a secret to us when anyone will resign as governor. Whether it's today or 15 days from now. Well, that could be a secret. Everything else is already known in advance. Very simple and very simple. It's a pity that this law that essentially regulates other things because of this eavesdropping has only that aspect of the consideration. That's a real shame. On these other aspects, especially what they're up to with our telecommunications, I hope it doesn't work, and I'm calling on everyone to protect our public enterprises. Because, in the end, from the point of view of the economy, it's the only thing that works in this country. If we sell that too, then we've robbed the bostan, for the long term. For a short time, we were killed. But when we get killed on a longer term, then we lose perspective and the future. I don't want to scare anyone, I just want to put it in a real frame. And this, around The Hague, about listening to texts, who, what, how, there's all kinds of nonsense out there. That's where you have the love talks. The subject of listening - love conversations. And they put it in the case against Vojislav Seselj, just as they put in the iron manual. There, great experts from Europe and the UN. The most common nebulose. I'm sorry, Marina, it's not the iron, it's the vacuum cleaner. That's the kind of thing that happens. I need to talk seriously about the vacuum cleaner now! Or the love conversation of a man with a girl? And it went into the case and that's proof of a joint criminal enterprise! Let's be serious about every fake and every lie. Thank you for your patience, especially for you, Mrs. Komic, for not interrupting me. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41698	Since the time of the parliamentary group, 20 minutes have been used. The word is by MP Vlatko Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41699	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is certainly both more media and politically attractive and profitable to discuss one conspiracy theory, about a Cvorović discourse, which personifies this hero from the film, Ilija Cvorovic. This law contains 150 and some members. It's been filed on, I think, 65 amendments. In the debate on the amendments that we have discussed today, we have reached Articles 3 or 5, all participants in the debate, so all MPs, applicants of the amendment talk about Articles 128, 129 and 130. So, two things I want to say. As regards the statistical data retention standard, i.e. the so-called The detained data, this electronic communications law, which is not the parent law for listening, or interception, is at the level of European standards. The Republic of Croatia has identical solutions, absolutely identical, and it is an official candidate for EU membership. In some of the solutions that this law gives, we are even more liberal and we have more democratic solutions than some European Union countries. For example, Latvia, which is a member of the EU, in that segment of law-monitoring and statistical data, gives authority to the government, therefore, does not regulate it by law but gives authority to its government to do so. We regulated it by law, prescribed a clear procedure and gave it, among other things, to the Commissioner for Information of public importance and the protection of the public of data. So these are democratic solutions. As for what counterpart Milica Vojic Markovic said, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia did not assess from the point of view of the constitutionality of the provisions of the Law on Telecommunications of 2003 and 2006 regarding access to detained statistics without a court ruling, but rather provisions on the possibility of intercepting electronic communications with insight into their content. Therefore, not with regard to detention, but with regard to listening. Dear and esteemed colleague Krasic, you said that Chapter XVII contains provisions on interception. That's right. Therefore, the title of this chapter is – The secrecy of electronic communications, legal interception and retention of data. You were not correct until the end, because if you were, you would read the position of Article 126, which reads: "The interception of electronic communications which reveal the content of communication is not allowed without the consent of users, except for a certain time and on the basis of the court's decision, if necessary for the conduct of criminal proceedings or the protection of the security of the Republic of Serbia, in the manner provided for by law." And, once again, I will, and I hope, for the last time, appeal to Article 129(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The bill, which says, prohibits the retention of data that reveal the content of communication. Today, too, artificially induces an entirely wrong thesis. First of all, this law does not regulate detention or listening. It's regulated by the laws of origin, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the laws of military intelligence, counterintelligence, the BIA Act. And our citizens have to and should know that no one can be tapped by an unprecedented court ruling, and based on these laws that I have now quoted. We have one quality electronic communications law. If Serbia strives to be part of post-industrial societies, we must arrange the area. It's a great law, Madam Minister, because it primarily introduces order into this area which is quite chaotic and we overcome those bad and anachronic solutions that we had in the Telecommunications Act, liberalizing the market. The ultimate goal of this law is to improve the quality of telecommunications services, hence, mobile phones, internet, fixed telephony, etc. and better quality and cheaper services to our citizens. So don't deceive the public, deceive our citizens. I didn't believe that today, I apologize for not being here, New Serbia MPs were running to be guests of the Sandstone show, because I see that, roughly, they tell the same story as part of the NGO sector and the authors of the Sandman show, so we can expect Velimir Ilic, or someone from his parliamentary group, to be a regular guest of the Sandman show. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41700	Five minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Three MPs have been reported in the electronic system. If you're okay with these three that are in the electronic system, we'll keep working, and then we'll take a break. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic, then MP Milica Vojic Markovic, and MP Zoran Krasic, use the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41701	I will certainly use the time of the parliamentary group. The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if I didn't know that Franz Kafka died in 1927, you'd think a man had risen to sit in this room and prepare material for some new process. But, Serbian citizens, once again, don't let them scare you, confuse you! This isn't a listening law. This is a law that strictly prohibits unauthorized listening at one point, and there will be no listening to the phone, and no one needs to listen to anyone. I will not, gentlemen of the Radicals, flaunt with you or with your leader in The Hague. I hope he comes by sometime, so he'll sit in this room, if he doesn't go to Tom Nikolic, and then I'll tell him everything I know about unpublished stenograms, about what he forgot to publish in his stenograms in these four volumes. I'll start with the "magistar" code and so on, but I won't argue with you. I'll save the line when he gets here. I want to ask you once again, when we talk about the institutions of the Serbian state, if you are already full of respect for the state authorities, as a MP, I respect all the state authorities, all the institutions. Parliament is an institution, the President of the Republic is an institution. The president of the Republic of Serbia never listened to anyone, nor did he need to do so. He comes out on the line, beats his political opponents, enters the hall here, you get up from the seat, congratulate him, he takes an oath, and there's no need to serve anything but what's best for him, to beat you, and that's the trust of Serbian citizens who enjoy the elections. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41702	Two minutes and 15 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41703	I'm looking for a right to a replica... Then I appeal to the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, the dignity of the Assembly. The MP deceived the public that I wasn't telling the truth when I was talking about the Constitutional Court's verdict. I have it here with me, so I would like to read what is written in it, in one part – the Constitutional Court has found that the disputed provision, Article 55, also allows without the court's order to use a device that threatens or disrupts privacy, or the confidentiality of letters and messages that are transmitted to the telecommunications network. According to the court's assessment, it violates the constitutional right to the secrecy of the letter, which is Article 41, and other means of communication, and therefore concluded that the disputed provisions do not comply with the Serbian country's Supreme Act. So what I said when I said about having a non-constitutional member of the 55th valid Telecommunications Act, I was absolutely right, and from what I read, you can see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41704	No injured article 104 except in your case, because it is unacceptable and offensive to reconsider from second to second how you want to abuse the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The whole session has been conducted very carefully and making sure that everyone has the right to their opinions, but that does not mean that it is tolerance to be allowed to think that the Rules of Procedure can be violated because it is in your interest. He can't. There are no negotiations on the Rules of Procedure and respect for the Rules of Procedure and that the Rules of Procedure must be respected, too, there are no negotiations. It is unworthy of the treatment prescribed by the Rules of Procedure to do such things. MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41705	I'm using the MP's time, because you wouldn't give this to me, of course. I don't want to argue with those who practice in front of the mirror and when they talk to themselves. No Vlatko Ratkovic. He's getting away. Chapter XVIi is just talking about intercepted conversations. That's what I was talking about, that one part of this law is being touched and the part relating to how to limit an individual's right in justified cases or when there's a reasonable doubt. But it's all in the domain of pre-crisis proceedings, to be clear, and of course it takes a court's decision. I never slowed it down. It is the only possible way to do something legally, because the danger of a democratic society because of the illicit activity of an individual is a valid reason why it can temporarily restrict and restrict an individual's right to warn or prevent that great damage. But I don't know what this national security saved in this country, because now someone's got BIA in the story. She didn't stop the drug trade. They boast that billions and 350 million, some Darko Saric, washed through the payment system of the Republic of Serbia. We have no information as to what our enemies are doing. We've never been closer, in 15 minutes, than our enemies, to organize ourselves. I don't know what that service is doing, to tell you the truth. I know he's providing these great politicians. Although, as they're being provided, you better move on your own than the police provide you, because then you're the target. You're unprotected. I don't insult any government service. I respect the state most, please. But every state authority has to justify its existence. The state's authority can't brag about the big action, and the ship's down. You know, I can't do things like that. Another thing, well, the most I asked in my speech was to stop those who are illegally and illegally listening. And, now, Ratkovic is imputing to me, as we now support something. I don't support anything, I ask that the law be applied. Then I took very interesting examples based on which you could see that the state authorities were not functioning. Excuse me, please, one state authority says a billion and 350 million dollars was laundered by a drug mob, so where's the Money Laundering Prevention Authority?- I'm sorry. You've also given us suspicion of terrorism, because where big money is being laundered there's either organized crime or terrorism. Well, then, a minister comes out and says, "We're developing a military industry and selling guns and bullets and so on." You know what, a man who doesn't have a driver's license and drives a bus, that's a danger. We are at great risk in this country, a country run by people who do not have driving permits. Everything's insecure with us, wherever you turn. Well, now it's my fault for the power...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41706	The People's Messengers earn nothing to surprise us. He can't even do me. The power shortage prevented MP Zoran Krasic from completing his exhibition. He's free, of course, to keep going if he wants to. The length of time he used was two minutes and 30 seconds, with an apology, on my part, due to technical problems, i.e. the power shortage that caused the violent interruption of the presentation of MP Zoran Krasic. It is quite a coincidence that the power went out, regardless of the idea of MP Zoran Krasic, who shared with all of us here, why the power went out while he was talking. That's what's happening to the current. National MP Milica Vojic Markovic was recorded in an electronic system on the panel, wants to use the time of the parliamentary group. You want to speak after the injury of the Rules of Procedure? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41707	I've been sitting here all day, and I've been keeping a very close eye on what's going on, especially those parts that are related to my exposure, so I've concluded that on the basis of article 101, I have the right to...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41708	National MPs, member 101, cannot be harmed during the session. Article 101 defines the responsibilities of the chair.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41709	I've applied to Article 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41710	I ask you to listen, since it is the chairman of the obligation, whoever it is, that he warns the MPs when they accidentally sin in reading the Rules of Procedure or interpreting their rights. So, article 101 defines the right to a replica. The right to the replica is the discretionary right of the chairman and is not subject to the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41711	Okay. Now, may I proceed with Article 104's injury?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41712	Of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41713	Since I didn't get a line on Mr. Ratkovic's exposure which he directly called me...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41714	People's MPs, I can't say more clearly, you don't have the right to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure because you didn't get a replica. The right to the replica is the decision of the chairman. I'm really warning you right now that you're not abused by the Institute of Rights over Order, because you don't have the right to injure the Rules of Procedure as a violation of your right to receive a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41715	I really don't need to discuss this with you anymore, so I'm gonna give up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41716	People's MPs, I understand you don't think there's any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, so I don't need to explain, since there's been no injury. Thank you. For today, we finish our morning work and continue at 15 o'clock and 10 minutes. We are currently in discussion in details, by amendment to Article 3, which were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Nikola Lazic. The amendment is, by the way, an integral part of the draft law, as well as the next amendment to Article 4 which has become an integral part of the bill. Thank you and continue at 15 hours and 10 minutes. [[After break – 15.20]] Dear People's MPs, we continue our session in the afternoon. A brief notification of an unusual species – in the part of the city where the National Assembly is located, here, in the Square of Nikola Pasic 13, is performed by electrical works of this kind, at the central power station, on the trafo station, so, if there are occasional power outages during our work, that you know what the reason is and that they will be short-lived. I must repeat, in accordance with Article 27, MP Zoran Krasic is by no means responsible for the power shortage or any other MP. However, I hope not, if during the speech or performance of any MP, there is a power outage, with my apologies, no matter how much responsibility I have for working on the trafo station, we will continue as soon as the conditions are obtained and as soon as the power is in the O.R. Anyone else want a word on the adopted amendment to Article 3? (No) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Transport and Communications Committee have submitted an amendment to Article 4. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? It is possible that the electronic system and the parliamentary units will be a little late if there is another power outage, so I will wait a little longer with the question – does anyone want a word? And please call if you want, and we'll wait for the system to work? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vladan Batic submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by the People's MP Aleksandra Jerkov. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have accepted the amendment, with a correction, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment, with correction, has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP Jelena Budimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41718	Thank you. On behalf of our parliamentary group, we have submitted an amendment to the government's competences in the field of electronic communications. The amendment proposed adding a point 3) which reads: "It brings in a sublegal act to implement this law. Current point 3 becomes point 4." We believe that the adoption of sublegal acts for the implementation of this law must be in the power of the Government, because the powers to enforce this law are conferred on the Republic of the electronic communications agency and the Ministry, so that they cannot adopt the rules they enforce at the same time. If the Agency were to be empowered at the same time to adopt the rules it implements, as prescribed in Article 8. The bill would be contrary to the principles of sharing power and banning conflicts of interest, as common rules of international law. Those rules are also prescribed. Four and six. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which does not allow the exercise of executive and legislative functions at the same time. This principle is also respected in the laws governing the work of the public administration, even without deep involvement in the field of legal science, it is clear that it is unacceptable that one organisation adopts the rules under which it issues and withdraws work permits, imposes conditions on the exercise of activity and charges everything on its own behalf and on its own account. In considering this issue, it must be taken into account with the greatest seriousness and the fact that this business branch has a large share in the overall economic activities and that it is measured annually by billions of euros, and acts at least unseriously to entrust all competences to a single agency, which is self-managed by the Management Board. As a result of the violation of the constitutional principle, it is clear that authorities and the ban on conflict of interest would sooner or later initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court or international judicial institutions and would successfully dispute such legal solutions and acts brought on the basis of them. The consequences would be the payment of compensation to all economic operators who consider them damaged, which could be measured by hundreds of millions of euros, which the Republic of Serbia would have to pay as the founder of the agency. That this is not a mere theory, with the SNS trying to advertise itself before the public, also proves the Constitutional Court's decision of 28 May this year, which launched a procedure for assessing the constitutionality of the Civil Aviation Directorate's establishment. The procedure was initiated because the court found that it was the authority of the Directorate to bring the regulations itself to the contrary to the Constitution, and the consequence could be the annulment of dozens of regulations and of all the individual acts that were based on them, of course, and the payment of huge damages to many airlines and individuals who suffered damages. The SNS has repeatedly pointed to the problem in this assembly, but the government and responsible ministers have done nothing to resolve the problem. The adoption of this amendment can prevent the inexplicable adverse consequences that, by adopting the anti-constitutional solutions proposed by this law, can bring to the citizens of this country, who already have a lot of compensation for various satellites and other failures. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41719	A minute and 20 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) Members of the 7th Amendment were submitted by MP Ivan Andric and MP Dejan Radenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41720	Thank you. Our amendment proposes that Article 7 which explains what the Republic Agency for Electronic Communications is deleting the part that says "the agency operates in accordance with the rules on public agencies". So, in principle, there was already talk about it. It's basically the only essential grudge we have on this bill, so I'm going to try to explain. In our opinion, this introduces one dose of confusion, that this electronic communications agency is not part of the work of public agencies, such as other public agencies formed by the Government, but is essentially an independent regulatory body and as such, it must operate in accordance with its decisions and statutes, not under the Public Agency Act. Of course, to confirm this thesis, some of the differences are that the founder of this agency is not the government. The government does not appoint the Management Board, but proposes it, and is elected by the Serbian Parliament. Also, the government doesn't appoint a director, but it does it after the board of directors and, in general, the whole idea that comes out of this is clear and going in the direction, because now there's a body that, I think, is called Rattel, if I'm not mistaken, that the future purpose is being carried out by the Agency for Electronic Communications. In her work, she is independent of the government and, in no way, cannot do as the government does. I say there is a confusion, because there is a Law on Public Agencys, that is, Article 1 of Article 2 which says - a special law can, according to the public agency's purpose, identify certain issues of the position of the Agency differently than this law. That's exactly the case with this law, but there are so many differences that it's obvious that it's essentially a different kind of state body or body of the state administration than these other agencies that are under direct government administration. Now, why does this sound like one legal thing and more, like, formally, essentially there's a difference. Our opinion that we have built, above all, by talking to people who work in companies and companies dealing with this type of activity, that in this area telecommunications, the speed of decision making is very important, much more important than in some other segments of our society. This just regulates the way decisions are made. That's why I think it's very important. If this agency were defined as an independent organisation, i.e. under the State Administration Act, as a category of another organisation, then its decisions would be final and above that, the right to appeal could be brought before the court. Then the procedure would not interfere with the implementation of the decision or the non-implementation. In this case, there's a second degree here. I'm not so sure whether the Ministry or again the Agency is in the second degree, but in any case there is a difficulty in implementing the decisions that the Agency makes, or which are to the benefit or to the harm of someone who deals with this area, given that here the speed of implementation of decisions is essential. Because telecommunications, if they have some characteristic traits, is the speed in their development and to avoid, which we are certain was not the intention of the legislator, that this area is further compromised or, as I say, slow down, then we think it would be important for the free market to be defined as an independent regulatory body. By ousting this Article 3 in Article 7, that would be achieved. There would be one formula that is not so happy, but further some changes or editorial changes could lead to a perfect solution. I'm saying this because there's been a lot of problems here in the Assembly or, how can I say, a lot of talk about various affairs. I only mention one, and that is the one, now already famous – "Nuba Invest", that is allowed to perform some kind of action, and later is allowed to everyone else. But everyone else lost interest in doing that work after what she did to Nuba Invest. So we think that time in this area is essential and time to make decisions. Whether time will now be further limited in the work of the Agency itself, so that second-degree decisions will be made quickly and implemented quickly, or you will accept, in our opinion, something which is a much more life-long solution, in the sense that these agencies will still be an independent regulatory body, not a government agency itself. It's just two concepts, and in that sense our amendment goes. Whatever this situation is, we think it's okay. We think that even in the principle debate, colleagues from other parliamentary groups, without some exchange of views between us and them, have come to the same conclusion. The name of the rebellion, the name now stands, means it's like a public agency. Basically, it's not a public agency. It has a very big impact on life in that area, so it's not just a formal decision. Please accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41721	Three minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative or the parliamentary group? (Employee Ivan Andric, from the post: By the authorised representative. ) From the time of the authorised representative. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Nikola Lazic together submitted to the 7th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41722	Thank you, Madam Chairman. This amendment envisioned, given that the adoption of the Statutes of the Electronic Communications Agency is ahead, that the 7th position behind the word "Government", delete the point and add the words "and on the proposal of the ministry", therefore, to the competent communications ministry. In this explanation, you answered what you said. We understand your argument, but we think this amendment simply improves the law and defines it. Now, using time as part of a parliamentary group, I would like to say a few words about the XVII chapter, about the secrecy of electronic communications, legal interception and legal retention of data. You see, Madam Minister, some things have been imposed in these places of this people in some past times. In the '50s, they were spoken – UDJA, as 'fate'. Then she was, she was aware, that she knew everything. Now you recognize such things in some form. It's something most people, the Serbian citizens, were terrified of and fled from. Well, because of that sort of thing, trust didn't have a brother in his own brother, father in his son, godfather in his godfather. And with these new forms, you open up that one possibility for these things to come back. It seems to me, Madam Minister, that the Ministry has turned into a new form of appearance, as we had in recent times. It's the government's communications bureau. That's what we already had. We had this story and what was going on. It is now repeated in a new form – from the 'lock boxes', through 'intercepting information' and things like that. Except, back then, the director of that government desk was one famous waiter in an elite restaurant. It's probably gonna be some kind of musician now, so we'll see which way it's gonna go. It's the fate of this law, with a set-up like this and with a set like this. And it must be known to the citizens of Serbia, that the time is coming when we will lose trust again. He'll be back in elephant ears fashion, intercepting communications without any criteria. Let's see how that goes with your story of entering Europe. Is that somewhere in Europe?- I'm sorry. Well, there isn't. Instead of moving forward, this is the 21st century, back to the beginning of the second half of the 20th century. Now, that's a story and it's a policy run by this government. The time will come, and someone will say in public, in the king of Troy, the ears of the goats. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41723	Two minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41724	The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and above all the citizens of Serbia, it is up to the Serbian citizens to make a commitment, and most of all, to do so in the elections, whether they will vote for those who try to vulgarise and intimidate them, to bring panic, unrest, restlessness, concern, anxiety and chilling into the hearts of citizens, or to vote for those who know how to pass the law, and to enforce the law. The law is very precise, especially when it is done in such a quality way, in line with European recommendations and experiences of European states. This is not the BIA law, we have repeatedly highlighted this in the morning part of the exposure, this is the law that regulates electronic communications, the law that provides for the existence of the Agency for Electronic Communications. There is no mention in the law prescribed by the Republic of electronic communications agency that the agency will be engaged in listening to the phone. I know the alphabet isn't complicated, it's only 30 letters, maybe it's hard for some people to read what the law says, so they like to invent, and that's their legitimate right to defend the law in that way. Some soon after October 5th, 'legalism' were replaced by 'legalism', so they kept the authorities of Radet Markovic and wanted to make of the State Security Service what they failed to do. Today, the National Security Service doesn't exist, there's a BIA. Nowhere in this law does it say that BIA or any security service will be listening to phone conversations. It's an attempt to manipulate not by law, but by interpreting the law. It is clearly stated here that the operator will be obliged to monitor and determine the source of communication, the destination of communication, the identification of the user's terminal equipment, the location of the user's mobile equipment, but no one is said to be listening or listening. There is a term here – it is forbidden to retain data that reveal the content of communication. Communication content remains a secret. Mr Krasic, not "holy secret", remains a secret in accordance with another DS sanctuary, which is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I hope that for you, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is sacred and that for all participants in this debate, as well as for all the parliamentary groups of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it is sacred and that they are treated according to it as political parties in other countries. Article 41. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says: "The secret of letters and other means of communication is unhurtful. ''Differences are allowed only for a certain time and based on the court's decision, if necessary in order to conduct a criminal procedure or protect the security of the Republic of Serbia, in the manner provided for by law. The law on criminal proceedings of the Republic of Serbia stipulates that only with the court's decision can the content of communication be entered. So don't scare the citizens that this is a law that will abolish certain freedoms and certain rights. It's a hoax. It's the introduction of unrest and fear among citizens and it's proof of political impotence, because whoever has no arguments must make up arguments. How's he gonna handle the consequences for that? Well, in the election. These are the same ones who said -- we will lose part of Serbia's territory if we agree to a white Schengen. These are the same ones who said that if you pass the Law on the special powers of the Vojvodina, then the Republic will be declared there in a year. Does anyone in Vojvodina go with a passport from this room? It's not familiar to me. That's what you claimed last year when we passed the Law on Special Jurisdictions of the Vojvodina. When you spoke of some other laws, you again said that Serbia meets the demands of the world. No one in Brussels, Paris, London, Berlin, Moscow and Washington wake up with one single wish, what a new difficult request I will make today to the citizens of Serbia. There people wake up with a desire to co-operate with Serbia, and we wake up with a desire every day to improve the quality of life in the Republic of Serbia. This raises the level of security. This promotes the level of electronic communications, and these laws do not disrupt the Constitution and we do not penetrate basic human and civil rights. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41725	Five minutes and 20 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic. He's using the MP's time group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41726	Thank you, Madam President. I see my discussion has hit the finish line. Mr Milivojevic, on European laws such as judicial reform, the Court of Justice said Europe. European moves, or promises, will be made by the people. About two hundred thousand new jobs, 1,000 euros of free shares will be told by the people when the time comes. The corridors, the crossroads will tell when the time comes. It is very interesting that you are this law defender, as is given to the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for adoption. I have no doubt this law will be passed. I don't have any dilemma here. But there comes a time when power passes and responsibility is borne. In your discussion, you said what you would do with this law. You've also heard what Europe tells you. So, anyway, what did the civil rights defender raise his voice?- I'm sorry. Is he some kind of freak? Does he not know what it says in this law, or does only some MPs know? What does he have objections to this law? And soon we will see what Europe will say about this communication law. Now, the essence of the law is not the way to Europe, this is the return of Serbia in the 1950s!
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41727	Two minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41728	Without the intention of replicating, respected counterpart Dimitrijevic, but with the intention of telling the Serbian citizens what Europe thinks of our efforts and our efforts to join the EU, you had the opportunity to hear and see the day before. I know you're deeply unhappy about it, even though you've been secreting that you've been out of the European way for a long time. I don't know where you're going, but I'm sure that that road you're offering is a safe road you can't stray on, because it doesn't lead anywhere. The way Serbia is going is clearly a good way and Europe said so the day before yesterday. I know it doesn't suit you, and I know it hurts you, and I know that every European law we pass in this country, and every step we win on that thorny path to Europe is not only the success of the Democratic Party or the coalition for European Serbia - but of all Serbia. And as for the law and the quality of the law, we make the laws that way, because as a member of the Resistance, I have advocated not only for human rights and freedoms, but also for the government to be a changing category, so that when power becomes a changing category and that then governance of the country is also a changing category. I must remind you, the DS does not rule this country, the DS has taken responsibility based on citizens' trust, to implement reforms in this country. When we are in opposition one day, we will respect this law, because we make the laws so that they can be good to us both when we are in power and when we are in opposition. We're not afraid of the quality and application of the law. And if you ask me what I'm afraid of, I'm a member of the Resistance and as a member of the DS I know very well what fear is. Fear is what I see in the eyes of our political opponents when someone announces that elections will be called in this country, and he is unable to pass the elections in Vrnjačka Banja, Arangelovac and some other Serbian places. Now, that's fear, what I see in the eyes of my political opponents when we stand on the line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41729	Two minutes and 20 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) They submitted to the 8th Amendment in the same text: a group of 21 MPs from the Progress Serbia and together MPs Milan Lapcevic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Is anyone answering for a word? (Yes) There is a word from MP Predrag Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41730	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, on this "Orvelovski" listening law, which has this poetic name you've given him -- the Law on Electronic Communications, although I think it would be fairer to call a law on listening to and controlling citizens, we've given 20 amendments of which, normally, none of them have been accepted, in the hope that we might ease the cruelty of what you've written, what you've been looking for and the controls you're going to carry out electronically over these citizens. We'll go chipping later, etc. Therefore, the increasing control of Serbian citizens is increasing. We have submitted an amendment to Article 8 – The Agency’s jurisdiction, where we are asking that in the first position, the proposal, point 1) be deleted, which says the sublegal act is adopted. The amendment is very touching with the amendment that counterpart Budimirovic made, so I will make a very brief statement on this amendment, which has not been accepted, as well as the other amendments of the Serbian Progressive Party. It is said that the Agency cannot be empowered at the same time to adopt sublegal acts and to decide on the rights and obligations of the users, because it decides on the basis of those same sublegal acts itself. Such a legal solution violates the fundamental democratic and legal principle of the division of power and the prevention of conflicts of interest guaranteed by the generalised rules of international law and members, the 'holy book', as it says, 4 and 6. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In considering this issue, it must be borne in mind that this business branch has a large share in the overall economic activities and that the annual turnover is measured in billions of euros. I just want to say one more thing. Mr. Milivojevic says the law is very exact. He is exact, but in all his Orwellian postulates. We should read it again in 1984, because with this law we're going there. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41731	30 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41732	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Madam Minister, I have submitted to Article 8, an amendment saying that point 1) is being deleted, and in this first position it is said that, in accordance with the law, the Agency, among other things, is bringing sublaws. I explained that the agencies are independent regulatory bodies, as defined by Article 7, and that they have been delegated to them public powers to enforce the laws passed by this National Assembly. As far as I know, in practice so far, the National Assembly has passed laws, and the ministries have passed sublegal acts, as closer to the instructions for implementing certain norms of law. I really don't understand what the idea of a writer, the author of this text, is why he wants to transfer that competence to the Agency, that the Agency is self-legislative and that it is the same sublegal act and that it is implementing? It's very much like a conflict of interest to me. If you, as a state, are managing a single resource that represents national good and national wealth, you have transferred the source of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, in that technical sense, to the management and regulatory of an independent regulatory body, and have given it the opportunity to write a sublegal act on its own and to carry out the same sublegal act and, on top of that, to write in Article 7, that the Agency is both functionally and financially independent of state authorities, in the worst form, by giving the Agency the possibility to raise funds in unlimited scope under the law and that these same funds, which represent national wealth, in unlimited volume and spending. It is indeed something that is probably the greatest invention of both your party and these ruling coalitions to hand over national resources to so-called independent regulatory bodies, which therefore collect huge revenues by controlling this public well-being, and these public revenues do not return to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, but spend them as they do for the same. I'd like you to answer my question, if you know, and I suppose you know what the salaries of the members of the RATL Management Board, which, however, are no longer legitimate since everyone's term of office has expired, 2008. In 2009, two other people lost their legitimacy, and ten days ago we got into the material that the president of the RATEL Management Board, Mr. Radunovic, resigned, so we don't have any legitimate members, but I'd be very interested in how much RATEL received funds based on the authority given to him by the state and what are the salaries of members of the board of directors, employees of the RATEL, and does anyone control that? Is the funds controlled by the Ministry of Telecommunications? Does this agency, as well as others, refer to and whether they are subject to the legislation of the government on wage limits, since I have, by chance, the knowledge that salaries are employed and over 200,000 dinars, and those who are not in the Management Board, are just some ordinary perpetrators. Tell me what's the logic of you transferring the management of one of these important resources to an independent agency, allowing it to write its own sublegal act, and hence, they can "supply" themselves, and since everything goes to their own expense and spend it on their own? If it is already necessary to edit one of these areas in a way that will be independent of the state authorities, well, even though you wrote it in Article 7, all behind it, the way members of the Management Board are elected, the way the director, who proposes it, is all the anti-substance of what you wrote, everything is just not an independent regulatory body and independent of the state authorities. Independent agencies as regulatory bodies should be selected by experts, who will implement professional regulation, have for them a particular fund, which will not be blackmailed or denied by executive bodies, but cannot have unlimited resources and unlimited power to collect these resources and spend as they please. The area of electronic communications and the provision of frequencies is a national good, and from that must be filled with the budget of the Republic of Serbia, not the budget of an independent regulatory body, which goes only through familiar flows and in the only known ways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41733	Three minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Minister Jasna Matic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41734	I think there's been some misunderstanding or misunderstanding here. Since we fully agree that frequencies are national treasures and a limited national resource of each country, as well as ours, and that giving them to be used should result in resources filling the budget of the Republic of Serbia. That's where we get along completely. That's how it is prescribed by this law. What has been given to the Agency as its own income relates only to technical checks and their services to cover the costs of their work. As far as your question is concerned, who controls their work and the amount of their income and, in general, their financial operations, that answer is the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia through its competent Committee on Transport and Connections. I fully support your position that this control should be more frequent, more thorough and more detailed and that these data should be made available to the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41735	National MP Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41736	Basically, this amendment is - should we give authority to have the Agency bring in sublegal acts? I have to put up with the applicants of this amendment just to warn that this is not the first regulation where it is clearly stated. When a kind of mania started to adopt regulations that, once in the jurisdiction of the state, were left to agencies in one, second or third status, not to spread this topic, agencies appeared as independent regulatory bodies that had, in practice, full jurisdiction, to regulate everything by means of a sublegal act, to apply their sublegal act, to carry out inspection, control, etc. It became a small para-state deity, literally speaking. That's not the standard of the European Union, that's what I have to tell you. It's the mistake of the translator. But whoever translated it, he tended to do it to weaken the state's functions, to humiliate the state and the state out of authentic areas where the state should be someone who wonders. I don't want to open this topic, this is nebulosis, I have to tell you, because if this is what this is all about, then we don't need this ministry at all. What do we need the Ministry for when they'll take over these agencies? I think the topic today is very important and fits. Mrs. Nado, I would like to recommend to you the latest book by Vojislav Seselj "Terred phone conversations", transcripts, published from 1991 until 1997. Here we are at 1997. Here we have a conversation between Mira Markovic and Zeljko Mitrovica. This is all Hague documentation. This is what the state gave. This wasn't invented by Vojislav Seselj. Here, here Zeljko Mitrovic says – hi Miro, she says – bye. Set up a joke for Vuk and Voyu. And there's Vulin, there's everything, everything, everything, written, who's who to whom you're doing what you're doing. There he is. He showed up. I'm not sure if they had a record license at the time or if someone was under control. According to this, Mira and Zeljko Mitrovic were under measures. Well, how could they be in control when they were in power? We've been listening to these strangers and giving evidence. Do you know, Mrs. Nado, that Vojislav Seselj was tapped by this regime, this one with which you were in the coalition in 1998, 1999 and 2000, when he was vice president of the Republic Government? And there's that in these books, you saw, in those four books. Well, you know, who the snake burns and the lizard fears! I recommend, Mrs. Komic, a very interesting book, over 1,000 pages of "Terred Phone Talks", dedicated to Vojislav Seselj, but also to Slobodan Milosevic. They've been listening to him, too. And then there's really a question – who the hell is this service for?- I'm sorry. She is the authority of what? Indestructible forces! Can't you see with your information that you're breaking into their network, too, that perhaps you're unconsciously only doing what suits them? When I tell them, I don't know if they're working there or their real bosses or some side bosses. I have no intention of scaring anyone, especially at the time of fasting, but these are facts. If the goat lies, the horns don't lie. And accept that, just like I said. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41737	Four minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41738	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, namely, it is precisely that since 2000, aware of the devastating consequences that one regime has left in this society, we are building a system based on rules that, on the one hand, should enable every citizen to have what is his elemental right, that is to be safe, to be protected from every form of crime and, on the other hand, that every citizen knows that there are serious institutions that are being built and whose task is to control the work of those who work in the safety of citizens and for their account. I'm not going to question whether it's in some periods, whether there's now some kind of unauthorized listening or unauthorized tracking. I don't have that information and I don't want to comment on it. But what's certainly bad is that instead of building institutions together that won't have the space to abuse their powers, we're creating an atmosphere in which we're trying to create an atmosphere of enmity for institutions without which no state in the world can. So, there is a huge difference between the approach in which we can talk about whether we should change laws that will allow for more serious control of the work of all those bodies and institutions that are responsible for the security of the entire society and the security of each citizen individually or whether these institutions are hostile to us, whether they are enemies to citizens, which I think is bad, because in that way we will, on the one hand, prevent them from doing their job, and on the other hand, citizens will have the consequence that they will not be able to say that they live in a country where institutions protect their physical and any other integrity. In that sense, I call again on us to stick to what this law is, and not what it is, so this law is not a law on security services, nor is it a law on listening. On the contrary, this law, both in Articles 126 and 129, explicitly prohibits listening on this basis. If we want to talk about this law, then we should see what it's really about. One amendment requiring the removal of the Agency's competence to settle specific issues under the laws under the law can be a question for debate. We consider that a legitimate question. When we started in 2000 to create a democratic society, which implies that there must be independent state regulatory bodies, of which, to remind only, and the Civilian Protector is one of those institutions, so we said then – there must be independent state regulatory bodies in order for the executive power to be excluded from the possibility of absolutely managing everyone in a democratic society? Claims that there are no independent bodies in other countries are simply not true. What's her name? Is jurisdiction exactly the same as the jurisdiction of the independent bodies we form here? It's a question, too, for debate, but that it doesn't exist, it simply isn't true. So in every democratic country that builds institutions of democracy, on the one hand, and instruments of control and independence of society from the executive authority in certain areas, there are independent regulatory bodies or independent state bodies. It's a trustee for information, it's also a protector of equality, etc. Do we suspect that these agencies we're creating are too alienated from any control? That's the topic of discussion. Is the fact that the Agency’s Management Board chooses this National Assembly sufficient guarantee or is that a presumption of politicisation? It may also be the subject of debate, but I remind you again, we chose the Commissioner for Information, we chose the Protector of Citizens. We choose judges. We choose many institutions in this country because the formation of a democratic parliamentary society is such that parliament is considered to be the highest body with the highest legitimacy to choose what should be independent from the executive authority. So we can question the whole system's setting and say that's not a good way to do it. Let's see who would be, then who would have more legitimacy to choose the board of directors of this agency than the National Assembly. The question also arises – if we choose, we have the authority and the right to oversee their work and to ask their responsibility for their work. Labour law is given in the jurisdiction of the competent ministry, but the National Assembly, which elects members of the Management Board, can at any time ask whether this independent state body is doing its job in accordance with the law we have passed, whether there is abuse and so on, to ask the question of responsibility and to seek a shift, or not to seek but to change. Therefore, it is all in the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. If you think that the fact that in the National Assembly most of you, who you are not happy to be like that, but you would like it to be different so that it would have more legitimacy, makes such decisions, unfortunately, in the democratic parliamentary system, the majority that has been supported by citizens is authorized, so to speak, to make that kind of decision. We can agree or disagree, but that's the basic rule of the system that we're building. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41739	Seven minutes and 10 seconds have been used since the time of the parliamentary group president. National MP Milan Lapčević has a word, so Marina Ragush's national envoy.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41740	Mrs. Kolundjia, I'd be inclined to trust you completely if reality hadn't denied me in the previous period. So if you say you want to build a system where there will be independent bodies on which the executive authority will not have a major influence, it could drink water, that, let's say, in this law you wrote that the selection process of the members of the Agency's Management Board as an independent regulatory body, the Agency for Electronic Communications, as well as any other independent institutions, is implemented in a different way. You wrote that the Agency's Management Board, based on the contest, is choosing the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government. The competition is being called by the ministry, applications are being submitted to the ministry, and the government is proposing candidates elected by the National Assembly. Well, what is it, politicizing? That this competition is being conducted and proposed to the Assembly by some independent committee composed of people who are proposed by professional associations we could understand that there is a lack of politicisation, but this is, literally, politicisation, because who will be proposed by the majority, or government, except for those people who are close to the ruling coalition. I'm not inclined to believe it'll be any different. What about the reforms you're implementing said Europe? She said very well about the reforms you've been conducting in the judiciary. She was a very good judge of the Media Act, which you put completely under the control of the media. She also sent you a message about the Law of Culture. Another law is coming that is likely to address European institutions and give their opinion on it. If you really want to make a system that will not be alienated from citizens and will not be an enemy of citizens, then trust must be created in those institutions. But trust is built by one unbiased way of managing these independent bodies, not in a way that wants to be fully controlled by a particular service in a perfidious way. That's how you passed the Media Act. You've put the media in a position of subjugation, and what are you going to control more in a democratic society than independent media? If you've managed to push that through a small door and place the media in a position that you're not controlled, how can we trust you with other laws? You are reforming the judiciary by implementing it as you imagined, and the European institutions have told you what they think of it. Therefore, it is clear that you want this law to put the Republic Telecommunications Agency completely under control, and by transferring the authority to adopt sublegal acts itself, indeed, a dangerous precedent is being carried out, where this agency, in addition to the resources it manages, will be able to do whatever it wants, and given that in that agency, in the executive bodies, it will be the ones you propose then does not give us hope that this agency will deal in a professional and impartial manner with the tasks it has been given to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41741	Three minutes and 55 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word is Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41742	We have chosen the Protector of the Citizens, and you swear to him today and that confirms that we have chosen the man impartially and politically neutrally. We chose the trustee for information. You swear on it today, which means that we have unbiasedly and politically proposed people who are really going to work. At the same time, we didn't put any pressure on them. On the contrary, that we have maximum support for independent institutions, we continue to support them, because we understand their role and understand the importance of what they do. That is why I believe that the National Assembly, also impartially and politically, will elect members of the Agency's Management Board, and if they do not do a good job, we will be able to question their responsibilities. Now we're going back to one question that shows how here, in fact, it's just necessary to criticize, forgetting what we talked about on other occasions. In fact, countless times the opposition has objected to an election procedure that is not a competition. So, I'll remind you, just, countless times when we've had some election processes in this assembly, the basic objection is -- why isn't it chosen by the competition, why does it suggest a committee, so some of them, some of them? Now we have a competition. Now, again, it's not enough. Of course, what matters most to us is that there are clear criteria. We can see whether these criteria are clear enough and strict enough or not. There's no possibility that someone who doesn't meet those criteria is elected. What is the subject and what we would like to talk about is – are these criteria clear and are these criteria strict enough for us to have the opportunity to choose the best in the competition? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41743	Since time, authorised representatives have been used for two minutes and 10 seconds. National MP Milan Lapčević. Now he should get the word of the National MP Marina Ragush, but, please, you, so he will, then, Marina.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41744	I'll be brief. The way we choose is problematic and we argue over it. Therefore, it is not disputed that the National Assembly and some majority must choose those people who will be in independent regulatory bodies. But when you want to do it in a very correct way, then you can do it to have the competition being conducted, to be conducted by some independent commission that isn't directly set up by the executive authority. This competition for the Governing Board of the Republic Agency for Electronic Communications, as well as for many others, is being conducted by the Government. The government is implementing and the government is proposing to the National Assembly. So, the ruling majority, the direct influence of the executive government. If you wanted to set up people who would not be controlled by politics, by the executive authority, you could say that this competition would be carried out technically and proposed to the National Assembly by any committee in charge of telecommunications affairs, whether an independent commission would be entered by members who would be proposed by independent professional associations from the Faculty of Economics, from the Faculty of Electronics, some other associations, the Association of Engineers and Technicians. So there are ways to come up with a proposal from people who will not be directly influenced by executive power. It's the only way to get the best solutions. Thus, if the direct executive authority proposes these members, indeed, the competition is not sufficient to guarantee that it will be impartial and done in the right way.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41745	A minute and 50 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The People's Parliament of Marina Ragush was to be delivered before Ambassador Milan Lapčević, but there was a dialogue on one subject, and I will give the word to Nadi Kolundzija again, and then the Parliament of the People of Marina Ragus gets the word, regardless of your mutual demands.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41746	Dear Chairman, let's just stick to what the law says and how the law regulates, not to interpret at all. Therefore, in one other member, it says that within 30 days of the date of expiry of the term laid down in Article 4, the Government shall lay down a proposal for a candidate for president, deputy president and members of the Management Board to meet the criteria for choice. Here is the role of the Government to establish on the basis of criteria whether or not someone has fulfilled the criteria and forward it to the National Assembly. The government does not establish a proposal in terms of candidateing members, it only has a clear procedure, clear criteria and it says – these candidates meet the requirements, and the National Assembly wants to or won't choose them. It's just, the truth is, I'd like us to stick to what the law says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41747	Since the time of the authorised representative, 55 seconds have been used. The National MP Marina Ragush has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41748	What's controversial is the climate that makes this bill. If you really don't think we're for the strong institutions of this system, you're wrong, of course we are, in the end, regularly and we're talking about it. If you don't think this country should have its sovereignty and implement it in all its territory, then perhaps we could start this story with the next question – will this bill, once adopted, apply to the KIM territory? He won't. So, so much for that, for starters. The other thing, let me, I may be wrong, but somehow in continuity for some time now we have seen an extremely strong influence by the executive authorities in what are fundamental human rights and intending to control a lot of things. Is it possible that a statement by the president of your party and the president of the state has caused our dilemma, in the sense that some of it requires the introduction of enlightened absoluteism? I don't know, but the situation in the state is completely different. What's the proof of this? In 2008, the Belgrade Centre for Human Rights reacted to something now legal by this bill. I sincerely hope it never happens. As early as 2008, the Belgrade Centre for Human Rights condemned the adoption of an act by the Republic Agency for Telecommunications, known as RATEL, since 11 July 2008, by which this regulatory body has prescribed binding technical conditions for Internet service providers, in order to achieve electronic surveillance of Serbian residents' communications via a global information network. Among other things, RATEL then obliged Internet providers to provide to the state authorities responsible for electronic surveillance, above all BIA, watch out, allow access and periodically deliver databases on their users, which, in addition to all their personal data, should contain their identification internet addresses. Second, to allow access to e-mail users databases. Third, to enable fully autonomous passive monitoring of the internet activities of each subscriber, as well as rerouting its or its communications. Fourthly, to allow interception of e-mails: audio, video, instant messages and pir to that pir communication. RATEL then also committed Internet providers in 2008, to all of those technical services, including a link to the BIA and, in particular, the necessary equipment, security on its own cost. A few years later, we have a bill on electronic communications. The accuracy and public works, in one of the members (Article 130), is talking about the protection of retained data, and the term'retained data' can be discussed – what does it mean? Is that what the head of BIA says, that it's just information about you and I making some kind of communication, or is that the content of that communication? What was my misunderstanding, so I invited Mr. Shabic, is what does Europe say about that? Mr. Sabic says so – it is a large and wide spectrum of interpretations, it can happen and Europe has a partial practice, but Europe says it is the information contained. However, to refer to this member who confirms what it was against, not only was the SRS, but was also the Belgrade Centre for Human Rights. You'll all agree that he has nothing to do with the SRS. They still belong to another Serbia, not to the one we mark. In that Article, on the protection of retained data, among other things: ''The operator is obliged to ensure, in particular, that the data of the same quality and subject to the same safety and security measures and data in the operator's electronic communications network; 2) that the data retained are protected in a convenient manner from accidental or unauthorised destruction, accidental loss or alteration, unauthorized or illegal storage, processing, access or detection... ; 3) to limit the access to retained data in an appropriate manner only to authorised persons of the authorities which make access to retained data... ; 4) to destroy retained data at the expiry of the time limit set by the member... Good. And, he says, 'The operator is obliged to, in order to fulfil the obligations of Article 1, provide the necessary technical and organisational conditions for its cost, and to provide evidence to the Agency, in accordance with the provisions of this law. ''What is still causing suspicion, we may be wrong, but, behold, you will deny us, is that the supervision of the performance of the operator's obligations under Article 1 of this Article is carried out by the authority responsible for the protection of personal data, or by the authority responsible for the protection of classified information when it comes to data stored and delivered in accordance with Article 128 of Article 5 of this Act. We would like to hear from the promoter who is the body that predicted the first or this relationship body. So, I reminded you of RATEL's instructions, it's our experience, it says that some monstrous mind in today's democratic Serbia has come to mind to establish a direct link with the Security Agency, so before you get an e-mail, the BIA will come to you. If you bring it all the way to the end that it is a protection of the right to privacy, well done, I'll say it publicly – I'm wrong! Because of such climate, for us this bill really reflects the claim of the executive government, not quite certainly the opposition, to carry out and introduce direct control over all communications. That's a reasonable doubt. This was recognized by the Belgrade Centre for Human Rights and believe that some of us were then in good conversations with people who understand what should be further intent and further trace of the events. If someone had told us at the time that this bill was going to come together, believe me, we wouldn't believe it. At the end or at the beginning, we have the Hague experience. Most often you get angry when we mention the Hague experience, but it teaches us, given that we were busy at the time, and by the circumstances we met a woman who is responsible for the IT security of the entire UN tribunal, because someone has misused the official computer in this assembly - sent an e-mail to The Hague tribunal, there is this trail, and brought into question the defence, come on, it's now on the other side, but we know what it means to intercept communication. This means that someone has caught your communication and has a direct introduction and insight into what you've been talking about, but we also know that if you don't legally implement it, you can't use it as evidence, and if it's privileged communication, so, yes, they listen, because it's in the interest of all intelligence services, but they can't use it against you in court what our dilemma is founded on the suspicion of this law, which may offer technical assumptions for the introduction of a controlled society, is that today, tomorrow, intercepted communications and how they use evidence in court. And then we come to the next basic question, I may be going to the widest possible conclusion right now, but, Mrs. Kolundjia, you are so far from the EU, that we are under the impression that you have no intention of introducing Serbia into the EU. Evidence of this, amendments and additions to the Public Information Act. Scandalously, I would now call my colleague Ostojić, but I know that because of party discipline he will not stand on my side, because he is destroying freedom of expression and giving huge space to executive authorities, tycoons. Second, the general choice of judges, third, this law. This is what Europe will say, be sure. And don't be surprised if the SRS asks those in charge of the international community to make a statement and give a timely interpretation of whether this is affecting the fundamental rights of Serbian citizens. When you have these three basis points, which are very important for the freedom and independence of institutions, not that we are far from Europe, but that it is your coalition, indeed, has no desire or will, obviously, that Serbia really introduces into the EU. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41749	Nine minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. (National MP Zoran Ostojić, from the place: Replica. ) National MP Zoran Ostojić throws – replica, you do not have the right to reply. I really ask you to take care of the respect of this institution and not to mock the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which imply the right to replication and the right to receive words for the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Just us, no one but us can show how seriously we take these two institutions that mean the right to free word without mocking those institutes about the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. National MP Milan Lapčević asked for a word, so the People's Parliament of Hope Kolundžija. Excuse me, MP, for interrupting your speech. National MP Zoran Ostojic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41750	I'm advocating a breach of Article 27, item 1 point 1. Mrs. Comic, I'm not going to use a breach of the Rules of Procedure to replicate. It's no mockery. Mrs. Ragush said something that, like, wasn't calling, and it was actually calling. Whoever was listening to Mrs. Ragush's presentation could have concluded, if he hadn't followed the midday exposure, if he didn't read the paper and if he didn't know the LDP's position, that LDP supports this law and this law solution. I just wanted to...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41751	People's MP, tell me, what's the violation of article 27 I've done?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41752	Because you didn't give me the right to a replica, and the right to a replica I had...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41753	National MP, the right to replica cannot be a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Once again, I ask you not to mock serious institutes that defend the right to free word. (The National MP Zoran Ostojić, from the post: Depriving the right to replica is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. ) National MP Zoran Ostojić argues that the denial of the right to replication is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Now I warn you that you are violating Article 104, and I ask you not to do so so that we will both not be put in a position to express unpopular measures. I refer you to the reading of article 101, which defines the right to receive replication. National MP Milan Lapčević. With my apologies, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41754	National MP Zoran Ostojić is right, but it means nothing to us. Mrs. Kolundjia, when you quote Article 14, or one of his views, you at least interpret it the right way. He says: "The government, within 30 days of the expiry of the deadline laid down in Article 4, sets out a proposal for a candidate for president, deputy president and board members who meet the criteria for the election", does not forward a list of all candidates who meet the conditions for the election, but sets out a proposal for a candidate for president. That means a proposal for a congregation that people will choose. I'd like to see a list of all the candidates who participated in the competition, and they meet the conditions of the competition. They're alive, so see, they're gonna come up on the agenda! If it is said to determine the candidate's proposal, then it sets out the candidate's proposal, then it sets out the candidate's proposal -- it does not forward a list of all candidates who have met the conditions.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41755	Since the time of the parliamentary group, J has been used for one minute. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41756	When we first get a list of candidates who meet the criteria, then I hope you'll at least apologize and say you were wrong. This is how I interpret this provision of the law, and I expect it to be what the legislator of this law intended. What I wanted to say is, obviously, that here, like, someone secretly wants Serbia to go faster into the EU, and then they say, hey, don't do it well enough and don't do it fast enough, which makes me happy, because that just means that political support for Serbia's European integration is expanding and that's good. But the finding that we are not doing this well enough and that the EU has some strong objections to what we are doing is denying the EU itself by the fact that it is in progress right now, i.e. that the process of ratification of the SAA has started, which just shows that everything Serbia is doing in the process of European integration is experiencing confirmation of those who need to assess whether we are doing it well enough and fast enough, and so I can only say – if you are willing to help us speed up the process of European integration, welcome. I can also conclude that, given Serbia's great efforts to be distracted in European integration, I am pleased that we are still doing this job successfully, and I believe that this process, in addition to all the problems, will be accelerated. Every time someone raises doubts about the ability to abuse their right to harm citizens, I tend to talk very carefully about how to prevent it. So it would be this time if we hadn't talked about something here that, for the thousandth time, I repeat, this law doesn't speak. This law does not speak of listening, nor in any way gives the possibility to do so beyond the provisions of the laws that defined it very precisely, which means only with the consent of the court. In no way can the application of this law suspend the provisions of the laws which define it unequivocally and clearly. And, again, it is in the interest of the Serbian citizens to talk about whether they may be victims of abuse or not, but we will not go anywhere if we draw a good conclusion, accidentally or intentionally, from the wrong facts. I would like to go from what the facts of this law are and then draw conclusions to see how we can remove any possible danger that citizens may be victims of anyone. But if we start from the wrong assumptions, no matter how good the conclusion is, we won't have the result that's necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41757	Three minutes and 35 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anybody else answer for a word? (Yes) The Messenger of the people, Donka Banovic, and Marina Ragush, the messenger of the people. Just sign in to the electronic system one more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41758	I'm sorry, there's something wrong with my unit. Every time I put in a card, she gives you a signal. I'll be in touch with Article 13.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41759	I'm sorry, when I see a name on the panel, I have to call. The National MP Marina Ragush has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41760	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. So much for electronic systems, they always give the wrong information. Mrs. Kolundjia, I have named the very precise name of this law, the proposal for a law on electronic communications. When it comes to facts, I quoted to you the RATEL manual and the Belgrade Centre for Human Rights' reaction, and, of course, the legislation against which the Belgrade Centre was in 2008 and all those who were in favour of protecting the right to privacy, as a member of this law, so I quoted you. I didn't use the wrong facts to talk about listening. I didn't mention the word "snatching" for a moment. I said "communication interception." I've expressed my dilemma about what "contained communication" means. Is this statistical data or does it also refer to the content of communication? Of course, there's my dilemma and I'm afraid, and in doing so, I've asked myself before this exposure to those of you who are the one who owns to give me an explanation on this subject, and I've colored the experiences we've had so far. One of these experiences is precisely the realization of a direct link with the BIA. The second of these experiences, it did, too, and the state did not respond to it, so it did not give us the assurance that our communications that we daily make by electronic means were secure, by simply publishing in the daily newspapers and the weekly newspapers transcripts that were made available on the basis of intercepted communications. It was simply my legitimate concern, that this law, which gives broad jurisdiction to enter communications, which are made by electronic means, would not be the subject of abuse of those who are in power. In the end, be assured that power is short-lived and all laws, you will adopt it, you have a mathematical majority, but this will today, tomorrow, apply to you and, perhaps, some others who will be able to control electronic communications.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41761	Three minutes and 20 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41762	Now it's open, apparently, another dilemma, which is, what's "contained information" and what's "interpreting information". If we want to see how the law has been defined, and not when we're interpreting what's kept information, because I don't think that's the point that each of us is interpreting what he thinks is retained information, so Article 129 clearly states what the information is. In the same article, it states that the retention of data which reveal the content of communication is prohibited. This law unequivocally shows what the elements are retained information and that it cannot possibly be content of information. Well, therefore, intercepted information or colloquial listening is forbidden by this law, according to these provisions.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41763	50 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapcevic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41764	I have submitted to Article 12 an amendment which, in its last position, says - members of the Management Board have the right to compensation for working on the Management Board which are determined in accordance with the Statute of the Agency. My intervention is that it's done with the government's consent. I believe that consent to the compensation of the members of the board of directors of this agency, but also of all others, should be given by the Government, given that this was misused in the previous period, by the fact that the fees were astronomical, and I am afraid that in some so-called independent regulatory bodies and day-to-day and astronomical fees, the public does not know about it. Given that it is matter, i.e. a resource representing national good, entrusted to this management agency, it is perfectly logical and normal for the person who has entrusted the authority to deal with these tasks to control its work, to control and the remuneration, i.e. the remuneration that members of the Management Board, the Director and all others who are employed in that agency. I believe that my amendment is very meaningful and meaningful, so that we do not come into the situation we had in previous years, that the fees to the board members are so high that they range from 300, 400, 500 and in some cases up to a million dinars, as President Tadic would say, are impertinently high. I'm afraid the largest number refers precisely to those who sit in the first two rows of his party.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41765	The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41766	I really think maybe we should reconsider this amendment. In our sense, I think that this amendment in some way creates the necessary need for the government, which is the founder and which controls the legality of the work of this agency, to have an impact on how compensation is determined for those sitting on these boards, especially if they are chosen by the National Assembly. I would like to ask the Proposer's representative, I think that, absolutely, there is no breach to the independence of an independent institution. To remind you of the Information Commissioner, a competent authority also determines the salary and, the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, determines the responsible committee of the Assembly. I really think that, especially at a time of crisis and in a situation where we are witnessing that some institutions, if they have no control, really have nothing to do with the state of the country and how citizens live. It's just, I think there should be some kind of control and consent about how much of that pay can be. It should not be forgotten, no matter what these funds are made out of their actions, so to speak, that activity is available to national resources. They, in fact, do one job on behalf of the state and for the interest of the state, must in some ways be, I say, controlled, when it comes to the belongings of those we choose to do the job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41767	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Nikola Lazic together submitted the 13th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) National MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41768	Thank you. This is an amendment that I also think the promoter was wrong when he didn't accept. In fact, Article 13 speaks of conditions for selecting members of the board of directors of this agency, which we are talking about. Otherwise, the board of directors is scheduled to have five members, one of which is the president, the deputy and three members. I will read the conditions that the Proposer here states: ''Members of the Management Board shall be selected from the ranks of prominent experts with high academic education from areas of importance for the work of the Agency, especially in the fields of electronic communications, economics and rights, who have achieved significant and recognised works or practices in the field of electronic communications and who enjoy reputation in the professional public. ''We have proposed a new position and we propose that – members of the Management Board should have at least five years of work experience from these listed areas which are important for the Agency's work. So, electronic communications, economics and legal science. I know that, later on, in the law where the conditions for the selection of directors are stated, that candidate must have at least five years of employment. I don't see why you've avoided members of the board of directors, where you say they should be respected experts, why you didn't predict that they had at least five years of work experience. In your explanation, you compare these elements. You say, for example, a respected expert is a relative thing. I understand why you listed it here, but a respected expert is respectable, and the other one is not. It's a matter of assessment. In your explanation, it is more important than having five years of work experience, or that these five years of work experience is no guarantee of quality. That, too, I think, is, if anything, then it's measurable that someone for five years has gained experience and worked in those areas. I don't know if you know it, but, for example, a secretary in one elementary school has to be a lawyer and must have at least five years of work experience. So there are 1,800 primary schools in Serbia. All the secretaries of these schools are lawyers, with five years of work experience. And here, it may happen that a lawyer who is a member of this board of directors of this republican agency can be a lawyer who has, for example, a year's work experience. I don't think it makes sense, and this is doubtful that you know who will be members of that board of directors, and some of these members would not meet this criterion, but five years of experience in the work is really not much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41769	A minute and 20 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Milan Lapčević submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has an MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41770	We discussed this article in discussions in several previous applications. Article 14 defines how members of the Management Board are elected – the President and Vice-President, members of the Management Board of the Competent Agency for Phone Communications. I suggested that, instead of the government, as an executive body, I propose to the Assembly candidates for the president, deputies and members of the board of directors, this is done by the committee responsible for electronic communications of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, for the simple reason that it reduces the possibility of political influence on the choice of independent people in that regulatory body. In this way that the Ministry has proposed, as it says in the law, by my deep conviction, we will have applications for a contest called by the Ministry, the government will determine the candidate's proposal. I'd like to see what Mrs. Kolundjia is saying. It'll come on the agenda. I am afraid that in this way, the government will propose, of those who have applied, certain candidates for the president, deputies and members, and that the institution of the competition is completely minimized and completely lost its true meaning. I believe that the committee responsible for telephone communications, the Committee on Transport and Liaison of the National Assembly, in this case, would be a far more inviting body to establish a list of candidates or myself a proposal for a presidential, deputy and board of directors. This would avoid the executive power directly controlling this independent regulatory body, thus avoiding options or suspicions of election, and later in the work of that agency there will be abuses and violations of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41771	A minute and 20 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The president of the Nad Kolundji parliamentary group has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41772	The President-in-Office, from the government's explanation explaining why he does not accept this amendment, is unequivocally clear that the government is interpreting this member of the law in the same way. We are not mistaken, but the government says that the only authority of the government is to deliver a list of all candidates who meet the conditions for the election. So it's in the National Assembly to choose the best of all candidates.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41773	30 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41774	If that's the case, then I don't see any reason why this amendment would not be accepted. If the National Assembly chooses from all candidates of the president, deputies and members, why not carry out this complete procedure by the committee responsible? Then what would that have to do with the government? If the Assembly chooses, if the competition is to be conducted and if the Government is just an honorary person who will forward the names of the candidates, why should not all the bodies of the Assembly do so completely? If there is a choice in the Assembly, why not do so by the Committee on Transport and Communications at the Serbian Parliament?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41775	Minister Jasna Matic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41776	Our intention was for the Ministry, as someone who primarily deals with this sector, to take care and take over this administrative and technical burden, that the Transport and Connection Committee, which has other aspects of its operation, does not only deal with electronic communications, would not have to bear that burden that is not essential, is merely technical and administrative, mail classification, advertising and so forth. In addition, our fear was that under the pressure of different priorities the Committee might miss deadlines, while for us, the importance of this sector is absolutely top priority.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41777	The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41778	Really, I do not understand why this would be a great burden for the congregation committee? You're saying the Ministry will work very hard because of the importance of this body and that this election will take place very quickly. The past really disproves us. For two years now, you have not suggested a single man on the board of directors, even though all their mandates have expired. Now you're telling us that you're going to be conducting this procedure very quickly and very quickly. That's not in line with how you acted in the previous period. Another contribution to the adoption of this amendment is that representatives of all parliamentary groups sit in the Committee on Transport and Communications. So it rules out the possibility of manipulation. There is a parliamentary control of representatives of all parliamentary groups where everything will be public and transparent. This does not guarantee us that what the Ministry and Government are to implement will be done in the right way by representatives of only one congregation majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41779	The National MP Marina Ragush has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41780	That's right, Madam Minister. You just did what we were afraid of during the whole day's session. You've justified the executive's desire to exercise complete control over this. There is no argument that it is not done by the competent committee of the Serbian Parliament, which is composed of all political parties that are parliamentary. So, not one single argument. The argument that they will miss deadlines and have a bit of a bit of work is such a thin argument that it goes in favour of what we are talking about, and that you intend to make it transparent, to be independent, you would suggest, therefore, that the proposer make sure that this election is done by the competent authority, or by the competent committee of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly. Then you would convince us that there is, indeed, the real intention we are hearing about by the head of the ZES Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41781	From the time of the parliamentary group, one minute was used. Anyone else want a word? (No) The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 15th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41782	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS has submitted an amendment to Article 15, because we think that the formulation of that member is very clumsy, and it concerns the termination of the term of office of members of the board of directors, and some similar formulation is also in Article 20, so, in fact, this reasoning applies to Article 20. I wouldn't answer again when it comes to Article 20. It is that the mandate of board members can cease, it is cited as one of the reasons, and death. We find this "death" completely unnecessary, that we very often have legal projects that determine when the mandate of an authority ceases and that we have almost never had the opportunity to have one of the arguments and, possibly, the death of a board member. It seems to me that it is a bit degutant, inappropriate, so, even there, in the Government Act you have no provision for a minister – that his function as minister ceases to be death, that is something that implies. And an even more vague formulation is in this first part that says the mandate of board members can stop. What does that mean by death?- I'm sorry. If it stops, it ends at the end of the time he was elected, by resigning, by solving. This word "can" is completely unnecessary. So we think that this member is quite unsupervised. It also refers to the director of this electronic communications agency, and we are sorry that you had no understanding and did not accept this amendment by the Serbian Radical Party. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41783	Does anyone else want a word? If not, a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group submitted to the 16th amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that this amendment does not comply with Article 34(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) National MP Zoran Antic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41784	Nothing, I'm giving up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41785	The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41786	I thank you, Mrs. Comic, just to say that I will use the time of my authorised face. The rejection of this amendment has practically confirmed what we are hearing about during this whole day's debate, which has confirmed, therefore, that this proposal for a law on electronic communications has not only taken a step forward, but obviously more steps backwards. The amendment has tried to regulate part of the bill relating to the selection of the Agency's director. It has been proposed that the provision that after a five-year term, he may be re-elected to replace the formula so that the director can select the most for another term of office. However, the promoter felt that what was proposed in the bill is something that is more comprehensive, I say, again, I wouldn't mind, obviously, even putting in a provision that someone could be elected as director of the Agency for life, but that's already your business. However, what is the problem is that such a proposal for a law on electronic communications, which, by the way, last year was at a public debate and then lived through some fierce criticism by a professional and wider public, and whose versions served on the site of the Resord Ministry, is now, at once, before the Government recently, and in these summer days and MPs in parliament, trying to see the light of the day, though, even after these numerous remarks, still, above all, the public is not familiar with what is in this bill. What is also interesting, with the topic that we have been working on all day, is the fact that all this is happening at a time when there is obviously trying to place the thesis that there is no giving up on the sale of Telecom, although the sale opposes the importance of part of the professional public, although there is clearly a conflict of interest around the City Group, in case the interested buyer is a Deutsche Telekom, which already has a co-owned stake in the company Telecom. The fact is that telecommunications infrastructure, which has Telecom Serbia, is a backbone, practically, of state interest. However, this simply bypasses, and "Licencom" for providing services in the field of fixed telephony, bought by Telenor, has been given the right to a state-owned company in Norway to use the telecommunications infrastructure of the state-owned company Telecom Serbia, although this is not in line with the current Telecommunications Act. I will remind you, only that the 'licence' purchased by Telenor was issued on the basis of the Regulation on the number and period on which the licence for public fixed telecommunications networks and services is issued, as well as the minimum conditions for granting 'licence' and the minimum amount of one-off fee for issuing 'licence'. It is a decision published in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia, number 87/09, by the Ministry of Telecommunications and Information Society. This Regulation is, in practice, contrary to the current Telecommunications Act, because it introduces new concepts that are not defined in the applicable Telecommunications Act. This, apparently, tries to introduce and impose an obligation on Telecom Serbia to make its entire infrastructure, including "local loop", available to Telenor. What is important to point out is that the concepts of "local loops" and the obligations of dismembering and making available to competitors on the market are not defined or binding under the current Telecommunications Act. Now, what's the mediate? Is it possible that Telecom is ordered to agree to illegality and that nothing is done in its defence, and the commanders think that all of this will remain undetected and that the accelerated adoption of the electronic communications law, which defines these concepts, "local loops" and its dismemberment, will all become a process in which, probably, no one will pay attention as we deal with perhaps more important matters, economic problems, regionalisation, Eurointegration and so on. RATEL has been referring to the Regulation these days and has used it as a legal basis based on which the interconnection prices are ordered, as well as the cost of providing the entire infrastructure of the Telecom Serbia company to Telenor. So, and here's the obvious violation of the law based on the illegal rulebook. We'll just remember that the earlier Telenore was granted free of charge at 069 against the Telecommunications Act, and for the error to be corrected, another, new, double error was made, so the call codes got both VIPs and Telecom, and the state budget, instead of triple income, did nothing. The question arises whether and perhaps this is the reason for a new law on electronic communications and new legal solutions to be passed following the accelerated procedure, to try to legalise, a previous one in a number of decisions on the use of Telecom's infrastructure. We are witnessing that in the media there are also reports of a potential lawsuit against the state against Telenor, with a request for compensation for inability to work and non-compliance with the conditions of 'licence'. What further, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is obtained by passing such a law on electronic communications? What kind of telecommunications are we gonna have? Who will manage Serbian telecommunications or, in fact, will we have telecommunications in the interests of the citizens of Serbia and this country or, perhaps, will this area just serve to reconcile the interests of some of the political parties?- I'm sorry. Another important detail is that the current members of the Management Board of the Telecommunications Agency or the RATEL mandate have expired a long time ago, and the resolution ministry has done nothing to ensure that new members of the Management Board are selected in good time. The new Law on Electronic Communications provides for the selection of members of the Regulatory Board of the Regulatory Body, the Electronic Communications Agency, in the public competition procedure. This is carried out by the resolution ministry, and then prepares a proposal for the Government and the Assembly, as well as a selection of the directors of the Electronic Communications Agency. The current Telecommunications Act makes a key decision by the Management Board of the Agency, and the proposal for a Law on Electronic Communications practically gives broad powers to the Director of the Agency. He brings organization, systematization, responsible for legality. In fact, in the hands of one man is the possibility of bringing in new acts, redecorating organizations, changing people and setting up certain personnel, and so on and so on. It can be concluded from all of this that the regulatory body, the Agency for Electronic Communications, will be managed by the same political structure that manages both the Ministry and the obvious that this image from the Ministry of Telecommunications and Information Society, already seen, will be found in the Agency. The new electronic telecommunications law, among other things, provides for the introduction of an electronic communications inspection, which has been missing in recent years, for a simple reason, which was obviously too high until some key market players are well placed. And what good it will be for the citizens of Serbia, it will likely show time, very soon. What is to be pointed out for the public is that recently, from the Ministry, fired employees who have significant experience in this business, and that all of this was done under the pretext of rationalising the state administration, in order to make this new law practically the same jobs, but for some new workers. Whether all of this will go away, we have witnessed that it has recently collected and subscription to fixed phones, in order to probably prepare for a new buyer, in order to provide him with a well guaranteed monthly income through a subscription. It is interesting that the same political structure is also trying to appoint the director of the newly established 'public company for the Emissions Technology', where about 70m euros are expected to be spent for the realisation of digital television over the next two years. The new public company came from the RTS detachment last year, but still has no director. It is obviously under the cover of that whole story that it is necessary to pass the law by emergency procedure, precisely, for that reason, to move on to digital broadcasting of the television programme by 2012. In the opinion of us in the SRS, it is necessary to think again very carefully about what the adoption of the Electronic Communications Act would bring, with all the arguments we could hear during today's debate. What is particularly important, we believe that all those RATL decisions based on the Regulation, which is obviously illegal, and finally the decision to assign 'licence' to fixed telephony, because it is also based on that same Regulation. As for Telenor, he can also be considered an unconscious buyer, because he knew that the term 'dismembered local loops' was not defined in the provisions of the existing Law and that he could not require the opening of 'local loops' from Telecom Serbia. At Telenor, which has been operating in Serbia for a long time, apparently, they know our regulations and they knew it wasn't defined by law, and who here in Serbia doesn't want to know the rules, I think it's clear enough. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41787	Nine minutes have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? (No) The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 20th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 22nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41788	Thank you, Madam Chairman. For a long time, we have been in the chapter of the Law on Electronic Communications relating to the Republic Agency for Electronic Communications, therefore, to some twenty members of this law, and how much individual provisions of the Bill show the time we spend in today's debate on the draft law. Once, Ratel, always Ratel, so this third chapter of the Republic's electronic communications agency could be called, therefore, a new or old RATEL. Why? Because in that area we have a very large number of years, for the whole system, society and state, essential resources, and that no one controls it and the provisions of these twenty members of the law are just continuing in this context and in the new proposal for a law on electronic communications. What, in particular, on behalf of the SNS, do we want by amendment to Article 22? The amendment concerns decision on the rights and obligations of operators and users? We propose to change the position 4, this Article 22, which now says in the proposal: "The solution of Article 2 is finally and can be brought against it by administrative dispute. ''What means is that it refers to solutions brought by the director on behalf of the Agency, the state, the whole system, ''against the resolution of Article 2 ''A complaint may be filed to the Ministry. Item 5 is deleted. ''And Article 5 of the bill states: ''The action does not delay the execution of the solution of Article 2. '"Why do we propose this? The proposal does not provide for the possibility of appeal to the director's solutions, which is otherwise contrary to the rules of administrative procedure, the work of the authorities of the state administration and the protection of the rights of all individuals and citizens. Only the right to conduct a administrative dispute is provided for, which is contrary directly to Article 38. The law on public agencies, which is prescribed that the appeal of public agency solutions be resolved by the ministry. The trial is very slow, we know from practice and for all court proceedings, and therefore it is ineffective, which wide opens up the possibility of corruption and all possible abuses, and the damage caused by violations of law can be very large and often irreparable. We know that, in practice, the procedure now takes an average of no less than two years, approximately, for a period of two to five years. Such a long procedure cannot effectively protect citizens' rights, otherwise it often poses a major obstacle to the development of the economy and society as a whole. It is, as such, a source and corruption, as some of the parties, very easily opt to offer bribes instead of the risk of years of waiting for proceedings, which lasts from two to five years, and a verdict concerning the procedure. The establishment of a procedure that is effective and fast enough to fundamentally protect citizens' rights in relation to acts of government is also an international obligation of the Republic of Serbia, just to remind you, as signator of the International Civil and Political Rights Pact, which in Article 2 paragraph 3 prescribes the obligation of the state to provide each person with the right of effective appeal. With this Article 22, this right has really been abolished. If a decision on the appeal has to be made for years, then the appeal is certainly not effective. The same obligation is also prescribed by the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, in Article 6(1), which requires a fair and public debate within a reasonable period of time. The introduction of such legal uncertainty is certainly not a good message for future investors. When considering this issue, it must be taken into account, with the highest level of seriousness, the fact that this economic branch, i.e. the area of communication, has a very large share in the overall economic activities, as well as that the annual turnover in this area, unfortunately, is largely controlled and used for who knows what purposes, scales and billions. According to the proposal for this law, the Agency also adopts sub-legislative acts, so it comes to the paradoxical, democratic society, an unacceptable situation, that in the hands of one man, the director of the Agency and the organisation to which he manages, all legislative and executive powers are concentrated in such an important area of economy, and that, in doing so, there is an effective legal means of controlling his work and decision-making almost no. Given the size of economic activity in this area and the authority of the Director of the Agency, its real impact on the economy and the state exceeds both the powers of the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic. A proposal on which there is no possibility of appeal to the Ministry does indeed seem to us as a conscious avoidance of responsibility by the Government and the Ministry and therefore I say – once RATL, once again RATEL, as legislators of this law, to the legality of the Agency's work and its director and the possibility of all the harmful consequences of its decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41789	Three minutes and 50 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) The 23rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41790	There are almost no members in the area relating to the Agency for Electronic Communications, as you notice, and the amendments have not submitted any of the opposition parties, which once again says that this Chapter 3 should be reconsidered a little more seriously, so I hope that the Minister will make some comments at the end of today's work, or tomorrow's work, about this part of the agenda. It's not the essence of the story whether you adopt the amendments or not. This does not mean much to us in the context of politics, but in the context of life and in the context of the application of the law that we are making, well, if one of the representatives of the ruling coalition says that laws that apply to us are passed, therefore, for the whole system, and for the ruling and opposition parties, then we should also treat all the amendments that we have today and commented and heard, not just us, but all the previous speakers. Therefore, we need to take seriously all the intentions and suggestions that have been made here, because the application of certain members of this law can indeed cause very serious adverse and long-term consequences. Article 23 of this Act speaks of rules, decisions and other general acts of the Agency. Our proposal is to completely delete the mentioned Article 23, and for the reasons that it is primarily stated that the Management Board adopts regulations, decisions and other acts which are generally governed by questions from the Agency's competence. This is totally one vague formulation, an undefined formulation, which can be interpreted in a very ambiguous way. Whether the proposing, i.e. the Government, was referring to the sublegal act referred to in Article 8 of this Act or to any acts governed by the Agency's internal organisation, this cannot be understood even from Article 23(1). It's probably about sublegal acts, because the term "questionation from the Agency's jurisdiction" is very imprecise, but it clearly points to that term. The proposed solution does not comply with Article 137. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which stipulates that individual powers can be entrusted, but individual powers, not complete powers from all over the area, for the adoption of regulations. They cannot be entrusted in this way and in this way to general provisions, but they must specify exactly the individual acts whose adoption is entrusted to a particular authority. I would not like to repeat here what my predecessors, colleagues from the SNS, have said about Articles 5 and 8, but I must again underline – the Agency cannot be at the same time empowered to adopt regulations and their application, because this is contrary to the principle of division of power and prohibition of conflict of interest, which is explained in detail by the applicant of this amendment in the already mentioned amendments for Article. Five and eight. The e-communication law. I must draw attention here to the ministers and to all of you that if these amendments are not accepted, the SNS will be forced to initiate the constitutional procedure of these provisions of the mentioned members, in order to prevent the occurrence of harmful consequences as a result of the application of the said articles of the Law on Electronic Communications.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41791	Two minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 25 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41792	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'd just like to ask you, if you could tell me how much time there is left for the SRS Parliament Club to discuss on this agenda point?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41793	The authorised representative has six minutes left, and the parliamentary group has four minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41794	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41795	I don't count this on you, therefore, my two minutes for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41796	The reason that the SRS Parliament Club submitted this amendment to Article 25(2) was something that we had already talked about quite a bit, and these are enormously high salaries of the managers of public enterprises and agencies. The purpose of the submission of this amendment is that the elements for determining the cost of profit as mandatory elements of the financial plan cannot be defined as decided by the Agency, but should comply with the criteria applicable in other state bodies. When you gave the agencies the opportunity to decide for themselves, we had a chance to see what it looked like. Otherwise, when it comes to the position of the SRS is known and I will repeat again that these are fictitious services, parallel to the regular state bodies defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Jobs carried out in these numerous agencies can be done without any difficulty within the individual departments, however, if this were the case, one sector manager and a certain number of employees. There would be no director, no deputy director, no board of directors, and no number of employees to be taken care of. It all costs a lot. All these years, the SRS has been warning against the establishment of an uninterrupted agency. However, the government is deafening all of our warnings and constantly hiring people in these services and bodies. This has led to too many employees in the state administration and this is the problem that this government is now facing, as the reduction in the number of employees is a condition, i.e. The commitments imposed by the IMF and the years are economic crises. The Law on the reduction of the number of employees was adopted at both republican and local level. The SRS opposed the law by saying it is necessary to stop new unnecessary employment in imaginary services. Now you're facing the problem of applying that law because there are too many people to be fired, and that's not so simple, because there are very few people who are in front of retirement and who want to leave themselves, the others have certain rights guaranteed by law, so a large number of lawsuits are brought before the court on this basis. I now have in my hands a table on the realization of the government's commitments 05, issue 121-1198/2009, since 26 February 2009. At the insistence of the SRS, when the truth was revealed to the public about the incomprehensible high incomes of Bojan Krishte and the management of the "Nikola Tesla" Airport, the government announced on its site the profits of public business managers and public agencies. This table refers to public agencies. There are a number of earnings from the highest in the Central Register, the director-general had a salary of 355,205 dinars, up to a minimum of 71,703 dinars, director of the Serbia Nature Protection Institute. It is interesting that there are only 25 public services on this list and there are no data on the level of salary at the Republic Telecommunications Agency, which you are now renaming by this bill to the Republic of the electronic communications agency. Since supervision of the legality and integrity of the work of the Agency for Telecommunications in the conduct of confidential affairs is being carried out by the Ministry of Telecommunications and Information Society, I am taking the opportunity to ask the Minister – why did the Agency not act after the Government's conclusion and did not put information on the level of earnings of the executives in February of last 2009? You can also take this as a parliamentary question. Unless an answer is reached within the deadline, I will wait for a session at which the MPs ask questions to the representatives of the Government and ask again for an answer to the question to explain - how should individuals be entitled not to act after the government's conclusion? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41797	Two minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 25 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41798	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, it would be concluded that this bill has been submitted by a number of MPs. More have explained certain provisions of this law than the Minister has been prepared to engage in the analysis of certain provisions. I have submitted an amendment to Article 25. The Law on Electronic Communications, which refers to the Agency for Electronic Communications. This agency generates revenue and expenditure, and Article 25(3) says, "The total expenditure of the Agency covered by the financial plan cannot be greater than the costs necessary for the successful achievement of the Agency's competence", followed by a certain follow-up, "until the estimated expenditure cannot be more than 2% of the planned expenditure. ''We have proposed that these words be deleted 'until the unforeseen expenditures can be greater than 2% of the planned expenditure'. However, the government was not prepared to accept the amendment, saying it was not specified at 2%, but up to 2% of the total cost. In order for them to be absolutely clear and precise, they further say in the follow-up of their reasoning that the amendment is not accepted, that there is double control of the funds spent, one is that it will be controlled by the government, and the other is that the State Auditing Institution will exercise control, and they say the possibility of abuse is very low. We in the SRS try not to allow at any time, in any segment, social resources, or funds that are Serbian citizens, to any state institution or electronic communications agency, to unplannedly use those funds. It was a waste of trying to explain to you that this law does not say what the SRS MPs pointed to, and that, quite argued. I would like you to comment on this amendment and state your reasons why this amendment is not accepted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41799	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic together submitted the 25th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) National MP Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41800	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, the DSS has tabled an amendment to Article 25, paragraph 5, where we wanted to specify who gives consent to the Agency's financial plan and based on whose opinion. Of course, we wanted to correct the clarity and accuracy of this law in Article 25. You did not accept our amendment, and you explained it by the fact that you clearly understand what this attitude is saying. Simply, what can be imposed on a man as the only rational opinion is that neither clarity nor precision dwells in this law, nor in this government, obviously. By the way, I must comment, when it comes to clarity and precision, and I, in front of my parliamentary group, advocate that even in the law, use such a clear and precise language, then, when we hear here today from Mrs. Kolundzija, who defends this law, as a colleague has observed, more than the representative, at least the official representatives of that law, when she says – 'Deprecating the regime by 2000', we, who are collokiously speaking that language, who understands Serbia, mean that she thinks of my coalition partner sitting here in the hall, at the SPS, but it is not politically correct to say it so clearly and loudly, and then she says, 'disputing the regime until 2000'. Really, maybe that sounds better, especially nicer to those who sit here today on behalf of that party?- I'm sorry. And then, when it's said that someone is "indecently rich," then we who are colloktiously speaking, we understand it as if these rich people are the ones who made this government, who are truly enormously rich. Those are the rich who brought the president of Serbia to power. These are the rich who, for God's sake, will not stand by him today, but are criticizing him, and then it should sound, like – you are unkindly rich, and in fact these are my partners, i.e. partners and ruling parties and Mr. Tadic. When you say 'Tacun Bridge', of course you don't mean some other bridge, but for'recet' that you need indecently wealthy people to pay for both President Tadic and this government to stay in power today and to keep their wealth. Today we hear that it's not about listening, it's about intercepting, and we keep hearing that it's about some data being held back. On many occasions today, I was talking about European standards saying that retained data is an integral part of communication, as important as content. I invite you to look at the documents, these are European standards of human rights protection. So, we're talking about this listening today, we, who say we're talking coloquial listening, even though we're not talking about listening, but about intercepting data, and I, simply, colloquially, when someone is listening to who I'm talking to, how long this conversation is going on, where I'm coming from, where he's from, where we're from, I simply mean that it's about listening, and I'm sure Serbian citizens can understand it as well. So, it's a miracle that this politically correct language, although I'm really using it very persuasively right now, because today, let's say, I'm not going to say when I'm being tapped -- they're listening to me, but I'm going to say, "They're intercepting me." That may sound better to someone, but it's equally frightening and it's equally far from democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41801	A minute and 55 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41802	The Honorable President, the Honorable Madam Minister, you may mean whatever you want, but what gives you for right or does not give you the right is whether you are telling the truth or not. The fact is, I'm not defending the law here, I'm defending the position of MPs defending the facts and the truth justify their own position against this law. You have every right to challenge this law and every other law, and every provision of it, but you do not have the right to deceive by making false statements about what this law is and what its contents are. I can understand that you don't distinguish between intercepting information and keeping information, but then ask around, and you don't claim to know what it is. Check the difference between one word and another. So, overjoyed is what is called colloquial listening, and in that sense this law does not in any way allow listening to or intercepting information without a court ruling. That's all it's about. If you don't know who brought President Boris Tadic, then I'll tell you it's millions of citizens of this country. If you don't know who brought this government, then I'll tell you that, too, millions of citizens of this country who chose it are the same ones who chose the parties that now make up the government in each of the re-elections give even more support to the same parties that make up this government. I think it's incorrect, at least, and on political correctness, I don't think there's a single word, that someone claims that this government has been brought to power by anyone other than the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41803	National MP Milica Vojic Markovic and MP Milan Lapcevic were registered in the electronic system. The DSS parliamentary group has used its time at its disposal for discussion in particular. (National MP Milica Vojić Markovic, from the post: I have the right to reply. You have no right to a replica. National MP Milan Lapcevic has seven minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41804	In previous years, this country has been trying, and today, it probably does, to implement certain reforms, and they should bring, in addition to the general democratisation of society and a better standard of citizens, a more efficient and modern state. When it is said more efficient and modern, it is mandatory and to make the country cheaper, in terms of bureaucracy, but it is nicer for its citizens. This is how, through the introduction of such institutions and by giving public authority to the state, it actually does not become more efficient and cheaper, and for the citizens and in itself, but each time introduces new commitments. By giving public authority, here in particular in the law of the Agency for Electronic Communications, and in other laws, such as the Agency for Medicinal Products, Agency or Professional Associations, engineering chambers, medical chambers, pharmaceutical chambers, certain associations or agencies are literally robbed by citizens of Serbia. Do you know that through the granting of public authority and the adoption of certain laws, none of the engineers can design in Serbia unless they have a license, and that licence can be obtained from an engineering chamber, transferred powers by the state, and no one controls the cost of obtaining that engineering license and where that money flows and spends. It's the same thing for medical licenses. Every year a doctor, a dentist, must collect a number of points through certain lectures, professional trainings, so-called, so that he can extend his license to do his job. These points will be won at certain lectures that must cost and not a little. There are no lectures that receive so-called license points, which are below 30-40 euros, which are done by people who are usually from the university, with some lectures or, better said, prescribed lectures, cost 500, 1,000, 1,500 people, depending on the interest and price of a particular seminar, to get certain points, and these people who do so collect huge money and share each other. The same is happening with the current Telecommunications Agency, the future electronic communications agency, the Broadcasting Agency, where huge funds are being raised based on public authority that the state is handing over, and there is no control of the costs of those funds, or at least there is no right to transparent control of the spending of funds coming into the Agency, as is the case with other state bodies. Practically, certain para-state bodies, as one of the previous exhibitors said, take huge money, share enormous wages, enormous compensation for board members, and that the public does not know that this is not the state's intention to control, so we have huge affairs since receiving in JAT, "Aerodrome", "Agency for Flight Control", RRA, RATEL and so on. It is not known today how many staff or board members are received in certain agencies. This has become a polygon that the state has institutionalized to illegally take money and share with each other in the gray market. And that's how huge money flows into its own pockets. The state must be efficient, modern and cheap, to control all its resources and to get everything into its own budget, in order for citizens to be able to control through independent institutions and bodies where these money is spent, and not to bring money into the agencies, and to lose any trace or leave there, in accordance with the statutes or acts of the agencies, legally in the private pockets of those who manage them.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41805	Five minutes and 30 seconds. Anyone else want a word? (No) If not, a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group submitted to Article 26 of the amendment. The word has a folk MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41806	Article 26. The draft law refers to the Agency’s working resources and says that the Agency’s labour resources are provided from the revenue incurred by the Agency from the fee for the use of the numbering, the fees for the use of radio frequencies, the fees for the performance of electronic communications activities, and the revenues incurred by the Agency by providing services under its jurisdiction, which are paid in accordance with this law. Our proposal is that, in Article 26, "the fees for the use of numbering, the fees for the use of radio frequencies, the fees for carrying out the activity of electronic communications," are deleted and that, after Article 1, paragraph 2, which reads as follows: "The missing funds for carrying out entrusted tasks of the state administration under this law are provided from the budget of the Republic. ''The Agency cannot charge for its own benefit the fees for the use of numbering, for the use of radio frequencies, as well as for the exercise of the activity of electronic communications, because they are the classic fiscal revenues of the state, i.e. taxes, which are paid for the use of public limited resources, which it has and their use is regulated and provided exclusively by the state. This fee shall be paid in proportion to the economic strength of the obligor, and as defined in Article 91. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia falls within the tax category, which according to this member and according to the Constitution, is exclusively the revenue of the budget. Thus, their payment and determination of the level, as well as the method of payment under the Constitution, cannot be entrusted to public authority holders, in this case it is the Agency, thus not even a regulation of the level and manner of payment can be entrusted to the Agency, and at least those revenues by the State can be granted to the Agency. According to Article 97(6), The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia shall be ensured: a single market; a legal position of economic operators; a system of performing certain business and other activities, which certainly includes the provision of the right to uninterrupted use of numbering, radio frequency and the exercise of activity in the field of electronic communications, as exclusive jurisdiction and responsibility of the Republic. At the same time, Article 92. The constitution stipulates that the Republic of Serbia's budget must show all revenue and expenditure financed by its competences. In accordance with the provisions of the Constitution, fees for the use of numberings, radio frequencies and the performance of activities in the field of electronic communications under the Constitution must be exclusively the income of the Republic, i.e. the budget of the Republic of Serbia. It is unacceptable for fiscal revenues to be made available to any agencies, including this, and at least it makes sense to prescribe them, the way, the height and the conditions of payment, because these agencies do not provide conditions for business activities, but conditions for carrying out economic activities are provided by the state. Unfortunately, this has long become a practice for us, and is applied in practice, regardless of the fact that the Republic of Serbia's budget has been in increasing deficits in recent years, and that the deficit is increasingly affecting functioning, and thus the government is forced to keep in constant debt, while at the same time hand and hat are sharing budget revenues with many agencies controlling individual parties. I must remind you that recently the finance minister presented the information that as much as 20% of public revenues are out of control of the Republic of Serbia's budget. And regardless of that fact, the government continues with this policy, setting up new agencies and not only setting them up, but also giving them its budget revenues. I have to remind you, and today, in the debate, countless times, an example of some agencies has been mentioned, this time by the Aviation Control Agency and the Civil Aviation Directorate, who, in their name and for their account for years, are charging for the use of the airspace of the Republic of Serbia, although the Budgetary System Act found that this compensation is public revenue, at the same time the Republic is responsible for the security and control of the airspace, which jobs finance from the budget, saving on all of us. The two organisations, without any control of the state, spent their revenues of 600,000 euros over the last few years, on their own behalf and on their own account, and managed to charge the Republic of Serbia with modest 100m euros, in addition to their revenues spent. It seems that it does not mean enough to all of us and the Government, or information, that the Constitutional Court has found that it is an unconstitutional regulation that allows them to do so, and this also applies to all these contested provisions, i.e. members of the law. This is why we are talking about this much – the provisions of the members relating to the operations of the Agency for Electronic Communications. Thanks to these behaviors, primarily, the people who run this country, we come into situations where the agencies mentioned have enormous financial resources, to share very large, not to mention astronomical salaries, and otherwise, their employees, in doing no special work, which differs from other important jobs done by other civil servants. It is indeed high time for the state to start respecting the principle that for the same jobs it must receive a similar, or same salary, when it comes to employees to whom it is an employer. Instead, one's salary is reduced, and in the ministry, Madam Minister, we recently fired 60% of the people involved in inspection supervision. This law now introduces that service that has been in place for many years, which has been abolished for the reasons already listed, which previous speakers have mentioned, so we are coming into a situation to apply various arches and standards to employees in the state administration, and that other employees in some agencies can decide with their boards and other bodies in their own area of work on the height of their salaries and compensation for services from the areas they deal with. The Constitution and the Law on State Administration have made it clear that, in order to carry out the tasks of the Republic, the resources are provided in the budget, and so to carry out the entrusted tasks, we have therefore proposed that Article 26 after Article 1 of Article 1 of Article 2 where, for the lack of resources, public administration tasks, under this law, are provided from the budget of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41807	Five minutes and 45 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Nikola Lazic together submitted the 27th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41808	Thank you, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and Madam Minister, I really don't think there's any more time or way to explain the amendments when they're spoken of like this. It's just that there's no need to explain anything we wrote, and it's been denied. So, there's no need for such an amendment to be explained, it's all clear. I belong to those MPs who are quite seriously preparing for the sessions, so I've prepared quite seriously for this point that we're talking about today, but I'm always grateful to those who want to teach me, so they give me a little safety seminar. I'm very grateful to them for that, because I don't consider myself an expert in this area, and I need it very much. The fact that I don't understand certain things about this law would be a little bit of a problem, but neither do those who are very skilled in this area, such as the Commissioner for Public Information, such as the Citizens' Protector. These are, however, institutes that a democratic society has made to protect civil rights and freedoms. In addition, the non-governmental sector, which has always been on the sidelines and supported the laws of European character, has also been very excited about this. Press associations are commenting on this. The least of it is me. I don't understand, I don't understand. It falls into, sort of, the level of my ability to understand things. There's a lot of people here who really talk very competently about these things, so they say the same thing I do. That's disturbing. That's what you need to worry about, not me. Furthermore, I may not really understand that this government is running a pro-European policy, in which today every citizen has a 100 euro lower salary than when this government took the lead in Serbia. It's really just that I'm looking at things differently, I guess. By the way, let me say, about 3,000 euros is a task for every Serb, regardless of his age and a half, thanks to this government. I don't need to comment any further, it's two minutes, and my parliamentary group has no time left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41809	Anyone else want a word? (Yes) Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41810	Dear Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, respected citizens of Serbia, the question is not whether this law should be understood by NGOs, the media, whether this law should be understood by self-proclaimed experts, experts. This is just about the fact, is there a good will to interpret this as it's written, to interpret the content of the law as it is, or is there a desire and intention to tell voters -- here, and we still exist, so now we're going to translate what the writer is, in fact, wanted to tell you this law. And, now, don't listen and read what the law says. Don't trust your eyes, don't trust your brain, we'll think for you and we'll tell you how to think. And we will tell you, honourable voters, what all fears can produce this law. I repeat again, for those who did not understand correctly, this is not a listening law. This isn't the intercept law. This is the electronic communications law. And one member of that law says that no one can keep an intercepted conversation, that no one can put the content of that conversation in the hands of anyone without a court ruling. And there's a very precise constitution and there's a very precise law, and everything else is an evil intention, an attempt to scare voters, to sow chills, fear. But the sowers of fear, zest, the sowers of discord always have time to harvest. And the time for harvest comes in the elections, and then some people don't cross the censorship in some election units, in some local elections, but it doesn't care about the citizens of this country, it's the concern of those who, I say, meet fears and reap misfortune. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41811	Since the time of the parliamentary group, time has been used for two minutes. Anyone else want a word? (No) Alexander Jerkov's MP submitted to Article 27 of the amendment. The government and the Transport and Connection Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become part of the draft law. Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41812	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Madam Minister, Article 28 regulates the issue of annual and periodic reports. So the reports that the Agency, or the Management Board of this agency, have the obligation to submit to this National Assembly. You, in Article 28(2) of the proposal, provided that the Annual report on the work of the Agency for the previous calendar year, was submitted by the Management Board no later than the second quarter of the current year. We believe that this deadline that you have left for this famous agency, which is full of six months, represents an inappropriate deadline. Indeed, a long time, not to say as some say, a little bit of an impolite term. Why did you leave a six-month period? We believe that the three-month period is completely adequate and more appropriate. In your explanation, you say a financial report is submitted within three months, so it is necessary to wait for the next three months and then submit this report. If you believed in the financial report that someone was delivering, you might predict that this financial report is actually an integral part of this report. But either you don't believe in this financial report that's being delivered, that someone's doing, or it's something else. If you don't believe in the financial report, I could, in part, agree with you, because as far as the Agency is concerned, you know, there's something. Usually, there's always smoke. You know what they say - where there's smoke, there's fire. If that's the case, maybe I'd agree with you. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41813	Anyone else want a word? (No) The 28th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milan Lapčević submitted to the 29th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41814	Article 29 is regulated in which cases and for which types of powers compensation is paid, in accordance with this law, the fee is said to be paid for: use of the numbering, use of radio frequencies, to carry out the activity of electronic communications and to provide services in the responsibility of the Agency, to determine the amount of compensation shall be determined by the Management Board of the Agency, and that the agreement at the height of these fees shall be given by the Government. I have added, in addition to agreeing on these prices, i.e. the fees paid by the entities to which this law applies – that the government determines the percentage allocation of funds made on this basis between the budget of the local self-government and the budget of the Republic of Serbia, where the percentage belonging to local self-government cannot be less than 30% of the total. I believe that this is very meaningful and very logical to be accepted as an amendment, for the simple reason that all the funds that come together on this basis are poured into the budget of the Republic of Serbia. On this basis, it is charged to use the numbering of radio frequencies at the state level, but also at the local level. For example, the fee collected by the Agency comes from paying the frequency for national television, for regional television, and for local television. By what logic should all resources be poured into the Republic of Serbia's budget if charged, for example, from local television, it is on an annual level, as I recall, about 5,000 euros, in Nis. Why would all of this go into the Republic of Serbia's budget? Why would 100,000 euros go to the Republic of Serbia's budget for one regional television show in the area of Southeastern Serbia, if that television exists, employ 50 to 100 people, the revenues are made on the market, therefore, from entities living in the territory of Southeast Serbia, so why would all revenues go to the central budget? Why not keep some of the funds in the budgets of local self-government, i.e. why not return the funds to the budgets of local self-government, just because the entities paying that fee are operating on the ground, make revenues from businesses through advertising living in that territory and there is no logic that all the funds go into the central budget. This would strengthen the budgets of local self-government and would be a fairer distribution of funds, not like this, to centralise everything as it is centralised in this country, so we have a situation where the average salary in Belgrade is 400 euros, and in the White Palanca 150. So, if someone really wants to take this my intention on purpose, I don't think there's a single argument that they can't accept something like this. The same applies to other fees that are made in the Agency, and I think we should finally put an end to that everything that happens in this country is happening in Belgrade. All the revenues collected go to Belgrade without local self-government being able to put an end to the end. And just one more sentence. Today there have been many words about who is telling lies and who is telling the truth, who needs the people of Serbia to believe. I suppose those who advocate this fact, that those who tell lies should not believe them, that they were just thinking about those who promised 200,000 new jobs, who promised better lives overnight, who promised that Kosovo was "always and always" an integral part of Serbia, even though each day a new ambassador would deny them, so he calls them directly and says -- there is nothing from the EU until you establish good neighbourly relations with Kosovo, or you recognise Kosovo. And, every day, they deny the various reports of reforms that are in Serbia, which tap into the city, or capture Serbian citizens, and make one of the goblets run by DS and Boris Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41815	The time available to the mandated representative and the DSS parliamentary group has been used. The word has the People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji, president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41816	I always understand as a desperate move when there's no argument for what's the topic of the agenda, and then pull for some argument that's an attempt at political disqualification. But as the citizens obviously don't understand it, that's how they show it in the elections, so they give priority to those who don't use these funds and who try to justify what they want to do on behalf of the citizens and for their benefit. The fact that the EU does not recognise the good results in Serbia seems to be just you. Fortunately, the EU thinks quite differently, and it also confirms that it helps Serbia in the next step towards full membership in the EU, on the one hand. So, that someone conditiones us by recognising Kosovo, again, fortunately, is just you. Sometimes, even, it seems like a desire to do so is true, but fortunately, it is not true and there are no conditions when Serbia's European integration comes from the point of view of recognising Kosovo and Metohija's unilaterally declared independence. You know that thanks to this government and President Boris Tadic, Serbia has achieved a huge success in the UN by bringing a resolution asking the international court to give an opinion on unilaterally declared independence, whether it is in accordance with international law or not. You know that, thanks to this government and the President of the Republic of Great, the largest number of UN member states has not recognised the unilaterally declared independence of KIM, so sometimes I have the impression that you would like the results for this country to not be as good as they are. I get the impression that sometimes you look forward to having some result for this country and for its citizens is bad. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41817	Two minutes and 15 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Milan Lapcevic is registered in the electronic system. You used your time. You have no right to a replica. (National Ambassador Milan Lapčević, from the post: Directly addressed me. ( b) National MP, I listen very carefully to the presentation of each MP. If you want to check, I can tell you again. In your presentation, you spoke as an authorised representative of the DSS Parliamentary Group. The people's letter of Hope Kolundji spoke of her estimates. Both presentations were within the framework of conditions prescribed by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, so there is no reason for replication. People's MP, please consult the Rules of Procedure on General Terms or Reasons for Replicating and Article 101, which says that... (National Ambassador Milan Lapčević, from the post: I would strongly recommend this to you. )......................................................................................................... the decision shall be made by the Chairman. The 29th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41818	Thank you, Madam Chairman. We continue to talk about a very serious area, as is the area regulated by this law, we remain on the subject. Here, at the same time, I will use the opportunity for amendments to Articles 29, 30, 31, and we will not report under these amendments, because it is an area governed by the area of compensation, and related to Article 26 and primarily to those provisions of Article 91. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It is quite logical to change what is stated in those articles, 29, 30 and 31, where it is said that compensation is paid in accordance with the law on the use of numberings, the use of radio frequencies, the performance of electronic communications, the provision of services from the Agency's competence. We, in our amendment, first of all to Article 29, suggested that attitude 2 be changed and that it should be said that the amount of compensation from the point of view. 1, 2 and 3 of this item, which refers to the use of numberings and radio frequencies, the performance of electronic communications, and the compensation of this member, is determined by the Government, unlike the proposed Agency. Also, paragraph 3 is amended, so it reads: "The amount of compensation referred to in point 4. of Article 1 of this Article shall be determined by the Management Board of the Agency," which may remain in the Agency's communications authority, in a manner prescribed by this law and by law governing the establishment and operation of public agencies. '"I must once again remind myself that these are publicly limited resources and that these resources should be available exclusively to the state. The revenues from this area should only be regulated and should be in the budget's jurisdiction. I wouldn't repeat myself. This is about Article 26. In Articles 30, 31 and 32, we propose to replace the words – "a solution made by the Agency which determines how to pay the fee. "We propose that instead they be words -- "by the government's decision and which is being paid in favour of the Republic of Serbia's budget. "Let me just say, we're not going to report to these next three points in particular. I have to give a crackdown on how Serbia's decentralisation is being done -- it started with some agencies. I have a feeling, and it's likely that there are telecommunications experts sitting next to the minister, that the headquarters of this agency will be on the Kopalnik. We have developed tourism there, and we suggest that it be in another place, not in Kopalnik. But if this kind of intelligence stays with the Agency, then it's really her place to be on the Bath, not somewhere else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-16-0.u41819	Thank you. We're finishing work for today. The paper continues tomorrow, June 17th, at 10.00 p.m., with a debate in particular, with an amendment submitted to article 30 by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group Serbia. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 102 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, it is found that there are enough MPs in the House of 85, which is enough to work, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which define the quorum for the work of the session. I remind you that on Tuesdays and Thursdays, after the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs present in the hall, and before moving to a further debate, we shall lead the course of the session on the basis of Article 235(2). Rules of Procedure, which gives the presidents or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups the right to request information and an explanation. Do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 235? National MP Milos Radulovic, the mandated representative of the DSS parliamentary group, has the floor.
