ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43853	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. On the basis of the official record of the presence of Members of Parliament, I would like to conclude that the sittings are attended by 123 MPs, and in order to accurately determine the number of present in the hall, I would ask the MPs to place their cards in the MPs' units. I find, based on the electronic voting system, that at this point in the room there are 103 MPs, so there are conditions for further work. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 286. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) Mr Dragan Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43854	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I don't have a new question, but I don't have any answers to any old questions about the privatisation of the company "News" and "Luke Belgrade". I still haven't received any answers on who owns the three companies that were founded in the Netherlands, which were privatized by the company Novosti. I have not yet received an answer from either the National Bank or the MUP on whether it is true that there were 42m and 300,000 euros in the accounts of the "Luke Belgrade". There's still a lot of questions that haven't been answered. Obviously, you have no intention of fighting crime and corruption in any way, because it is impossible to fight yourself. I guess that's pretty clear to everyone. There is no other option but to file criminal charges against the person we consider to be the most responsible for the robbery and crime that took place during the privatisation of the company "News" and "Luke Belgrade". We're not the only ones who filed criminal charges when it comes to these two privatisations. Criminal charges have been filed by small shareholders so far, he has submitted a Council on Combating Corruption and, behold, to this day, nothing is happening. What is interesting in both of these cases, which the public needs to know about, is a large number of state officials involved in this robbery, in this crime, from the Ministry, and in the order of almost all the agencies that you've set up to protect the interests of the state and citizens of this country, and these agencies have done everything in order to carry out one of the unprecedented robberies in terms of the property of Serbian citizens. The situation of this robbery is difficult to imagine. For the past 10 years, assets worth something between 30 billion and 40 billion euros have been privatised. The state received everything from it, according to you, of about two billion and 700 thousand euros, is not even 10%. Everything else has been robbed. The scale of these robberies can occur only in some extremely extraordinary situations, such as war and revolution. You claim that the revolution was carried out on October 5th, and you probably thought that you were allowed to do so and set off to rob the property of the Serbian state. A similar robbery took place in Serbia in 1945, but then it was in the other direction. It was then taken from individuals and turned into state property, and now it's the reverse process. Now he's robbing the state and turning into private property, and you absolutely don't want to do anything about it. Because when you look at who's involved, it's quite clear, you're involved. But at least don't deceive Serbian citizens about fighting corruption and crime, because it's simply unimaginable for you. At every step, wherever you can and whenever you can, you cheat on the citizens of Serbia, because you have no other way to present anything but a fraud based on false promises that you will do this or that. At times, single out some money for a million Serbian citizens on the edge or below the poverty line, a million unemployed, a general disaster that you have brought this country and these citizens to, and all that remains is hope that those who are able to deal with these elections will come, and that you will go where you deserve, and the only place for you is prison.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43855	The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43856	I'm so glad to see you all here again after July 26th and, right to tell you, I appreciate, of course, all the questions that are being asked here and I think they all have some reason, but for me, the most interesting question is all the questions – what it looks like when I see you after July 26th. The assembly decided on July 26th that it had practically authorised the Serbian government to go with a resolution before the UN General Assembly. Representatives of the government and the President of the Republic themselves came here, filed a document that even experts spoke of in the National Assembly, we remember Dusan Batakovic. After that, as we assumed, at least we from the DSS were pressured against Boris Tadic and the Serbian government not to delete the text that we have been presented, but rather the essence of what came before the National Assembly and to go out with a so-called. A compromise text before the UN, which was adopted by the acclaim, which, in fact, definitely and finally, Serbia gave up Kosovo and Metohija. So here, in this assembly, the president of the state and the government committed to further protecting territorial integrity, they submitted a text that, in our opinion, was not enough to protect that integrity, and then they did not respect a minimum of what they had committed to this assembly. Of those who voted in favour of the text, some were deceived, and some knew in advance that they were voting for something that had failed at the beginning. So the government is playing with its own assembly, the assembly that chose the government. The president of Serbia is playing with other institutions of the country. And all that, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, you don't mind. You think it's okay. The document adopted by the UN General Assembly on 26 July does not say that what happened in the UN General Assembly can be done. Nowhere does it say that any compromise proposal could have been made with the EU, it does not say anywhere that the United Nations' motion for a United Nations resolution should have been written by the EU, that it should have provided us with the text we agree on, but rather that this text should be written by the Serbian government. So, the text submitted to the UN General Assembly was a text familiar with the public, and that text was submitted, and then changed. That's what happened and that's what we want to talk about today. And in the afternoon part, we'll talk about it, because it's just amazing that this kind of disabling this parliament is experiencing from those representatives it chose. Of course, Boris Tadic did not elect this parliament, but it is a shame that the president of the state is elected by citizens to do so by another body that is also the result of free democratic elections. So it's something you can't accept. My question is very specific and I want it addressed to two addresses. The first is for the Serbian government – does the Prime Minister and Foreign Minister feel any responsibility for what happened? And, in my opinion, the only logical question, with the, of course, finding that they would have to feel responsible – when will they resign, when will they inform MPs and the public that they are leaving their posts? The second question, for the President of the Republic, is the exact same – can a man address us in a letter and say whether he feels or doesn't feel responsible; if he feels responsible, when will he leave? That's all we care about. All the other stories about this are declassified. Since these people leave, it depends on the well-being of this society. The sooner they leave, the better for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43857	The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43858	Dear Vice President, respected citizens of Serbia, all who watch this direct transmission, I have a question on behalf of the NS parliamentary group. In fact, there will be some information I personally ask of you, Madam Vice President. I wish there was a president, but it's not. I asked one question on behalf of the NS parliamentary group more than two and a half months ago, and I didn't get any answers, so we MPs can question the integrity of these issues, but while there is a transfer, we will ask questions and insist hard on the answers. The issue was for Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic, who these days, as we can see, is on the official road, but not on an official trip to foreign countries where he would represent our country, but on the official road from the film Emir Kusturica. When I asked that question two and a half months ago, I said that the foreign minister was unjustly neglected here in the National Assembly and that MPs, which my little one did, should have asked him some questions, so he also got a chance to answer the questions of the MPs. Namely, what did I ask? I said, where's our money? It was in the means of information, because that's the only way we MPs can inform ourselves, so I was interested in the cost of our diplomatic representations in the world, and I cited some concrete examples and asked if it was true. For example, I am particularly interested in the costs incurred by employees at our embassy in Norway at the time our country's ambassador to Norway was Mrs. Vida Ognjenović. So I asked the question -- how many people are employed at the embassy, what are their salaries and what are their costs made, and especially how much did Serbian citizens pay for incorrect car parking? According to the information I have, and I'm asking for an answer to the question of whether it's true, those costs were enormous. Even the daily papers in Norway reported it. Next, we're witnessing some of the affairs that were put under the carpet, like renting some apartments in Paris, in Ukraine... I mentioned it all, I didn't make it up, the daily newspaper wrote about it, the president of the state pleaded that someone would be removed, that it should not be leased to give seven thousand euros, that we should not have in one state, practically, two ambassadors, as until some time ago he was ambassador to both Paris and UNESCO and nothing. I ask a question specifically for these three countries, for our diplomatic representations in Norway, France and Ukraine – how many people are employed in these embassies, how much they have salaries and what all costs do Serbian citizens have to bear, that is, that the people pay, because they are also funded from the budget? Once again, I strongly protest this kind of neglect, so that two and a half months, the MP is not delivered to any answer to any of the questions he has asked. So, if we're going to break some of the superhero names here, about the country's biggest defenders, and KIM, let's keep it for history after they've now hidden in a mouse hole and gone nowhere, but that those nice people's answers are what the price of a visit to a two-year failed and wrong policy, because now it's another policy towards KIM, to respond through numbers, how much the people understands best. When I get answers to questions about these three embassies, I will ask for 13 more embassies, and eventually it will be a question for the minister himself, to answer how much it cost the citizens of Serbia all of what was done for two years, he and his travels that were, in fact, in vain and in the wrong destinations, since all of this was paid by the funds from the budget in which all the citizens are paying, and we all see that winter is approaching and how the citizens live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43859	The word has an MP, Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43860	Vice-Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, and my question will refer to the essence of the policy, which is citizens' money. These days we are witnessing relatively perfiduous public preparation for new gatherings, primarily thinking about gas and electricity. Normally, this preparation is different to the public. When it comes to electricity, the first man of the EPS doesn't appear to explain that the power needs to be collected, while, when it comes to gas, this director has decided to convince the people that he should pay for the more expensive gas. There's probably a difference between the two men, well, after all, and the intellectual level. These days, too, we from the LDP, asking for a revision of the energy agreement with Russia, are proving that the acquisitions stem from the monopoly position of that branch and asking the government to clearly state at what price we import gas. Because these days there are also paid lobbyist texts where they're trying to explain to us that we're about to pay for the cheapest gas or almost the cheapest gas in Europe. I ask the government and the competent ministry to clearly state at what price Serbia imports gas from Russia; to say how much the price is on the market and to give comparable data a few weeks back, so that we can see if the price of Russian gas, which we claim to be greater than the current market, is indeed breaking over citizens' pockets. On the other hand, by warning that prices and those of life that are so few here in the congregation are much more interested in citizens than some of the topics that colleagues are pushing for, we have also suggested how to address this milk problem. You remember that we proposed to limit trade margins to seven percent, to give up the country's basic VAT on food and milk, and to divide the difference obtained between the manufacturer and the processor. Then the stock fund would be restored and, of course, in the 21st century, we wouldn't have a problem with shortages, which remind us terribly of some time that we all want to forget. These days, we're all reading that the minister in charge has an ingenuous idea to solve this problem. We ask the Ministry of Agriculture if they've seriously considered our proposal, what they think about it, which is why it's unacceptable if it's unacceptable, which is why they suggest something that we don't know what they're going to suggest and, in principle, we want to return some of the topics concerning money and citizens' standards to this assembly. This thing about gas and electricity really needs to be cleared up once, so that there's not always going to be a policy where someone lobbys for some, others for others, etc. Remember when we warned you that this energy deal wouldn't work. You said we'd have a privileged position and we'd have the cheapest gas imports, and now, suddenly, as much as 25% of the purchases are mentioned. That's why we want to clear things up, so we don't go public with our data, and then others answer some data through paid texts. Let the government and the competent minister clearly say how much gas costs, what about Banatski Dvor, where we store gas, whether still in Hungary, what it costs to transport that gas, in order for citizens to understand why they will have to pay for that more expensive gas. I'm not going into the monopoly position of the Srbigas, I'm not going into the fact that this company trades in grain, buys companies and deals with all other things that have nothing to do with gas. About this, monopolies and consumers will be able to speak much more when the consumer protection point comes to the agenda. In any case, this situation before the warm season, when the alarming news is spreading through the media that the heats are due, that there will be no heating, that we are going to have a rough winter, that we are going to freeze, etc., when we have such a "required" agreement with Russia's largest European gas producer, is indeed inadmissible. This rasomone already needs to stop and the government has a clear answer – how much we pay for Russian gas, how much liquid gas costs on the market, how many other countries in the environment are paying and that we know that we are paying, in fact, someone's incompetence, and, after all, that catastrophic energy...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43861	Five minutes. Thank you. The word is made by MP Jovan Damjanovic. People's MP Damjanovic, you've been reported. Do you want to use your right under Article 286(2)? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43862	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, back a few days ago, we are all familiar with the fact that the deportation of Roma Romania and Bulgaria has been carried out in an inappropriate manner. The Democratic Left of Roma condemns a harsh violation of the European Convention on Human Rights and Inclusion of Roma in the Council of Europe and the European Community. The European Commission's position is to condemn all the persecutions of the Roma and is required to stop the deportation of the Roma. At the Summit in Cordoba 2008/2009. in the year, where our representatives of the Ministry attended, a policy decision aimed at the inclusion of the Roma people is taken, respects and understands the key values of the European Union on human rights and dignity, non-discrimination, equality, as well as opportunities for economic development. In particular, Roma inclusive policy has been ignored in the fields of education, employment, social problems, housing, health care and safety. The aim of this policy is to provide Roma with an effective approach and equal opportunity in the Member States of the Council of Europe and the EU. Prosecution from Germany and Italy of Roma from Serbia and Kosovo is certainly expected soon. I appeal to the European Community, because we too are implementing European values in this Parliament, to work to ensure and deprive both Roma and Serbs of their property, their houses, their estates that are burned down and simply aligned with the land. Where do these citizens and the Roma and the unromantic nationalities come back? Our country is in such an economic situation that we can't accept these citizens anymore, because we don't have them anywhere. We therefore appeal to the EU to allow for the continued survival of all European citizens, Roma and Roma, to allow them all standards and life until issues are resolved so that they can return freely and uninterruptedly to their country of origin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43863	Whether any of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups wish to exercise their right, in accordance with Article 286(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to request a notice or an explanation? No, I don't. ) If not, we continue the session by informing of the absence of the MPs. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Vladimir Milentijevic. Explanation of the grounds for calling the sitting within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly of Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic called this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly because of the need for the National Assembly to review the draft daily agenda acts as soon as possible was set out in the request of the 123rd National MP to hold an extraordinary session. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010, which was convened at the request of 123 MPs, pursuant to Article 106(3), paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 248. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been submitted to you for the holding of the Seventh Extraordinary Session, with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the 7th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010, the following Dn e n e d: 1. Proposal for a decision supplementing the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the President of the National Assembly (Act 02-2373/10 of 28 September 2010). We move to the 1st item of the agenda - the proposal for a decision to supplement the decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia You have received the proposal for a decision taken by Ms Slavica Đukić-Dejanović, president of the National Assembly. Before the search opens, I remind you that, according to Article 192 and Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total debate time for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate per parliamentary group is the following: Parliament group "For European Serbia" - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; SRS MP group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; G17 - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group "Forward, Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group DSS – Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; SPS-JS - 18 minutes; MP group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; MEP group "New Serbia" - 10 minutes and 48 seconds;Send group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for the word and with the order of the MPs. I also remind all parliamentary groups that the provisions of the adopted new Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are in force and that we are obliged to highlight whether or not it is for or against the lecture of the list of speakers, because if not done, speakers from the list which are not indicated whether or not they are in favour of or against speaking at the end of the list of speakers in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. The president of the Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic Assembly does not want a word. Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? Yeah. ) National MP Cedomir Jovanovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43864	Madam Vice President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given that the motionary is not here and that obviously those whose name the Proposer is starting this initiative don't feel obliged to tell us anything, I would ask for an explanation, I just think you need to take a break. I don't know who can give us that explanation. Namely, I'm talking about the Administrative Committee. We absolutely respect Parliament's legal obligation, which requires the alignment of the number of Committee members with new norms and opposition practically marginalises, but we are interested in the relationship between the authorities and the opposition in the Administrative Committee. In accordance with Article 28. The Law on the National Assembly has been defined as the obligation of the Assembly to elect board members and deputy board members on a proposal from parliamentary groups, a proportion of MPs from the total number of MPs in the National Assembly. We are very interested in the situation on the Administrative Committee, above all because of the fact that the ruling majority, the parliamentary majority, had a majority on the Administrative Committee so far. The Management Board had 15 members, eight members represented practically those parties that supported the formation of the government. The election of two new members of the Administrative Committee, which is carried out in accordance with the Law on the Assembly and the new Rules of Procedure, elects two additional representatives of the ruling majority, and establishes a new relationship in the Administrative Committee – 10:7. This ratio of 10:7 is contrary to Article 28. Law on the National Assembly, which requires (President: Two minutes). ) To the National Assembly, members of the alternate committee members shall choose a proportionate relationship in Parliament and thus form a relationship within the Administrative Committee. That seems to be due to one term of office. We feel that such a thing is unacceptable and that the congregation must comply with its decisions with the Law on the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43865	There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. The content of your remarks is a topic for discussion. The explanation is that the determination of the proportions in the composition of the committee was made also on the basis of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and on the basis of the Law on the National Assembly. Do any of the presidents or authorized representatives want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Cedomir Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43866	I'm not happy, Mrs. Comic, with your answer. So, you can allow this kind of behaviour towards you, but while this is the Serbian Assembly and while I feel that I am its MP, I consider you obliged to respect me, not as Cedomir Jovanovic, but as a representative of the citizens who voted for me. Are you listening to your explanation? What you said to me was a direct insult. I remind you that we cannot begin the debate against the law, and you're telling me that anything in this assembly is possible. Then this isn't the Assembly. Then this will be the replica of a government. Then bring company from the corner and let it run the Assembly, let it be declared on the proposed agenda. What does that look like? You're selecting 17 members of the Administrative Board. Ten represent the ruling coalition...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43867	People's MP, you can't repeat the remark you made in the last two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43868	I can repeat, I'm not happy with your answer. Let the promoter of this come forward and answer the question I asked. How can the congregation discuss something contrary to the law?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43869	People's MP, you can't repeat the remark you made in the last two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43870	What can I do?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43871	You can make your remarks in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which you do not. Thank you. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? National MP Ivan Andric has been reported. Do you want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43872	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Unfortunately, I don't have it with me, but I'm sure it's about article 27 and former member 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43873	National MP, a new Rules of Procedure has been adopted and I ask you to respect the National Assembly and quote members as they...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43874	Article 104. Please give me my time back to the beginning. We have also warned that the basic idea of your adoption of the new Rules of Procedure is to make it impossible for MPs to talk about what they want. It can't be the idea of the Rules of Procedure that you can hide your marifettes from us and not let us talk about them yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43875	Member of the People's Parliament, Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly define the right to replication. I'm really asking you to take the act we're referring to seriously.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43876	Mrs. Komic, you and I have known each other a long time, and you know that this assembly has been conducted in different ways. If it is your idea that by not having a Rules of Procedure, as well as the head of our parliamentary group, to talk about much deeper abuse, how do you think this debate will end?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43877	I think the debate will be conducted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43878	Do you think we're gonna give up now? That we're going to say, well, well, since we don't know, then let's go, and let the Management Board have ten members?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43879	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43880	Article 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43881	Thank you, People's Messenger. The debate will be conducted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure implies that, if you wish to speak of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you must specify a member of the Rules of Procedure who is injured, explain it, and that if you are not satisfied with the explanation, you are requesting that the Assembly declare it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43882	Article 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43883	National MP Ivan Andric. You want to talk again about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) And MP Cedomir Jovanovic wants a word. What order are you going to take? First, the president of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43884	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Article 107, which obliges you to respect the dignity of the Assembly. I don't think there's any dignity in this country. One of the reasons why he is gone is that pride, pride and arrogance that does not have its foothold here in Parliament, but is most often manifested through the actions of the ruling majority in parliament. I warned you that your motions were in breach of Article 28. The Law on the Assembly and asked you to, in accordance with your business powers, give a break to correct mistakes. You have to make your point, not offer me a humiliating answer, expecting me to agree to that. If ten years ago, which we're symbolically marking right now, we didn't agree with the idea that because some government has the right to make you crazy, then I don't think today that we should deal with it. If the ten years behind us are mostly lost, I don't think the next ten years should be the same. And one way to change that is to put pressure on the government that needs to understand it and start changing itself. So, set up in the Administrative Committee the proportion that exists here in the Assembly. When the ruling majority has 60% of the Assembly, let them have 60% of the Administrative Board. The opposite is the violation of the Law on the Assembly, which you yourself have brought.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43885	No breach of Article 107. I did not speak directly to you, nor did I speak offensively to you, nor did I use data on the facts of other faces’ lives. I made a note of the way in which the proposal for additions was drawn up within the Committee of the National Assembly, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with the Law on the National Assembly. It is your right to make the Assembly known about it. National MP Ivan Andric wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43886	Article 107. Your conduct is offensive and violates the dignity of the Assembly, because in response you ignore the essence, and we think it is very important that every MP sitting here understands what the essence is. This issue of ours is much deeper than the question of the harsh proportion we speak of, although it is important enough. The question is how to take away and share mandates in this congregation. The ruling majority, since its constitution, has been in violation of the Constitution. When it comes to MPs from the ruling majority, they are deprived of their mandates, and when it comes to MPs from the opposition who cross and their later behaviour support the ruling majority, these mandates are not taken away. When the first time in the Administrative Committee has come to this, the clear idea that one rule must be established, which will apply to all, whatever it is, either you take them away or you don't take them away, you now, harshly breaking the Constitution and the Law on the National Assembly in one, I must say cowboy way, neglecting even what we warn you of, you change the proportion on the Administrative Committee so that this committee can continue to play with the mandates. This warning is important enough that at the very least the proposing's representative had to come and explain his actions, not that you're taking our word because we don't know if he's a member of 107 or 104. We warn of a much greater violation of both the law and the Constitution, and it must not go without an answer, as it is used to in this congregation. So it's a direct violation of the law. This allows the ruling coalition to manipulate mandates in a way that has not manipulated the SPS in the 1990s. We're asking to establish clear rules. If you tell me that I need to know what the number of members is, you are obliged, as chairman, to tell those who are making a proposal that they too must respect a member of the law that says - proportionate to the composition of the Assembly, the Administrative Committee will have a composition...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43887	Thank you, MP, two minutes have passed. And you violated Article 103. You are required to specify which member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. With a lot of understanding... Please don't throw it away. You will see in the stenogram that the Messenger of the people said, "You are an insult to the messengers of the people." A member of the Rules of Procedure has not stated. The voices from the O.R., yes. It's not. The voices from the O.R., yes. It's not. I ask that a copy of the stenogram with the contents of the presentation of MP Ivan Andric be made and delivered immediately. I expect the apology of MP Ivan Andric for the claim that he said he listed article 107. (Louds from the hall: yes, he said.) He said I speak offensively. In the last sentence of his presentation, the MP said that he could not be expected to know whether he was a member of 104 or a member of 107, so I ask you to make clear to the stenogram that I am right when I ask the MPs to bear in mind that they are under a strict obligation to respect Article 103. Please, by working together, whatever the subject is, obviously open in this debate, let us leave for debate when MPs and presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, participate. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43888	Madam Vice President Komic, I'm advocating a violation of article 23. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The first position of that member has been injured, which is very precise, and I ask you not to count this time since I'm going to quote...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43889	People's MP, there's a provision in the Rules of Procedure that means you don't count on time to read and quote.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43890	Well, I asked you, so you can take it away from me, but it is understood that, if you speak to me, I consider your address as addressing you to me, since you previously resented me for not hurting the Rules of Procedure because you do not address me personally. I don't know how you speak to me. So, Article 23, point 1. The Rules of Procedure say MPs' groups propose candidates for members and deputy board members in proportion to the number of MPs, compared to the total number of MPs. How can you expect us to enter into a debate on a proposal on the agenda, and this proposal violates the Law on the Assembly and the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly? The ruling majority does not have 60% of the MPs in this assembly, and they will have 60% in the Administrative Committee because you cannot agree with G17. They have two representatives on the Administrative Board, and you're choosing the new two who need to do a job they don't want to do. Well, the institutions can't function from today until tomorrow. I can't, Mrs. Comic. You can't leave a Member of Parliament and take away the term of office without a session of the Committee. And I would like to announce to you in advance that we will request the return of the parliamentary mandate to the MP who was suspended in November 2008 because he is a member of the LDP today, and has been taken away from him from the meeting of the Administrative Committee and without any knowledge of his or her co-operation.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43891	Article 23, which you have quoted, the first position, has not been violated since I first explained that the composition of the Committee is made up in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the National Assembly, in accordance with the second position of the same Article 23, which is not cited, and gives an explanation for your dilemmas as to whether the material for the sitting that is under way is prepared in accordance with the Rules of Procedure or not. Article 23(2) reads: "In the composition of the committee in determining the proportionate participation of parliamentary groups in the total number of members and alternate members of the board, most of those parties making up the parliamentary majority shall be provided." Item 3 has also not been violated, nor has attitude 4. If you are not satisfied with the answer, the congregation will declare your objection. National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry, as president of the parliamentary group. You don't want to? No, I don't. ( ) Does anyone else want to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure of the People’s People’s People’s People’s People’s People’s People’s People’s People’s People’s People’s People’s People? Yeah. ) National MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43892	Mrs. Komic, in order not to have any dilemma and not to leave you to judge whether I am satisfied with your answer or not, I am absolutely not satisfied with your response and I am asking this assembly to vote in the day that the Earth is a record, not that it is round, because it is the only thing that can follow the answer you gave me.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43893	People's MP, you can't make a motion to vote in voting day, you can only ask the Assembly to declare whether the Rules of Procedure has been broken or not, and for the submission of new voting proposals there is a different procedure. Does anyone want to talk about the president or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups? Yeah. ) National MP Free Maras. You want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43894	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 107. Mrs. Komic, you have offended the dignity of this assembly after Mr. Andric's address. Everyone in the hall heard, and that's what the stenogram will confirm, that Mr. Andric said he was calling for article 107. What you later caused by your reaction, by throwing "it's not" with MPs, at the same time reminding MPs not to win, just speaks in favor of everything the president of our parliamentary group has said from the beginning. Because of something you don't want this topic to be dealt with properly. There's no proposal. You're breaking the law. It's not the first time that the Assembly is going to break the law, but it's terrible that no one comes here to propose, and it's terrible that the Assembly is going to propose such a violation of the law. Therefore, please, in accordance with Rule 101 of this Rules of Procedure, give a break. This can't end like this. I don't know why you're going over a well-intentioned, serious warning from the LDP Parliament Club that you're breaking the law like this. If you don't want to do it, say it, but don't keep making us crazy and talking and answering and explaining something that can't be explained. Please, take a break and have the promoter come over and explain to us what this is all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43895	There is no reason to rest since the material was prepared in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I thank you for your well-intentioned suggestions. My interventions were about situations where MPs, understandably, forget to respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which is completely natural to happen. Every mistake I have found will be a reason to sincerely apologize to every MP of the people to whom the error has been made (if it is, of course). Anyone else want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43896	I'm advertising a violation of article 107 because you're constantly violating that article 107 by refusing to accept our well-intentioned suggestion. Mrs. Comic, there's been a mistake. Let's just assume there's been a mistake. There is no proper proportion in the Administrative Committee. It's a violation of the law. The MPs say...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43897	National MP, you cannot repeat a provision that has already been pointed out as breaking the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43898	You have a chance to correct a violation of the law. Bring in the promoter. How well he calculated for the other committees... PRESIDENT: National MP, you cannot highlight a provision that has already been pointed out as if there had been a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I really ask you to leave all your objections of this kind, argumentated, for discussion in a unique search, for what the debate and for what it is. National MP Ivan Andric wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43899	Article 107: ''The speaker at the session of the National Assembly is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly... ''I am sure that this member, besides the fact that no one in this room should swear or insult other MPs, also refers to insulting intelligence. If the head of the opposition party's parliamentary group asks for an explanation from the motionary for a move that everyone, at least from the opposition, knows very well what it is for, and you persistently ignore that proposal, tireing everyone here with trivialities...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43900	People's MP, you're repeating a complaint about a misdemeanor.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43901	You have no right to interrupt me. I'm sorry, it's in your rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43902	People's MP, I'm obliged to interrupt if you're committing a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43903	No, you're not. And who appreciates that, I'm sorry?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43904	Article 103 defines your rights and obligations and my rights and obligations when it comes to the right to speak and to the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. Here you go. National MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43905	Article 107. You know what, I have no intention of going in with you in the controversy, but believe me, you have no right to appreciate whether or not the dignity of the assembly has been violated. Believe you don't have any less than any of us here.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43906	People's MP, it's not about whether dignity is injured, it's about my obligation to warn you that you have no right to have the word to speak twice about the same injury. Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ( ) Do the words of representatives, or presidents of parliamentary groups, want? Yeah. ) National MP Jorgenka Tabaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43907	Thank you. I would point out the senselessness of Article 23. The Rules of Procedure under which we are working and the inability to realise the position of the 1st member, given the amendment made by Mrs Nada Kolundzhija, who, without any apologies to the expression, has been set up by the MPs of this assembly because of the way in which the Rules of Procedure has been discussed as a sort of decision, in which proportionate representation has been fully devised. You know perfectly well that during the debate on the Rules of Procedure, only in principle was discussed. Many of us have talked about individual solutions, and some have waited skillfully and wisely for this debate to be brought to an end and almost invisiblely or without sufficient insight and raise the opposition's voice against it to submit an amendment to which proportionality is annulled and the amendment to Article 23(2), which provides the ruling parliamentary majority with 17 for each committee with the prevailing majority of nine. Item 3 allows the establishment of a committee with those nine, whether or not the opposition submits its proposals. I ask top lawyers – is it enough to have authority and enough insolence to unearth the existence of the board at all, working on committees and the presence of the opposition on committees? And did this too smart, not mathematician, but numerologist calculate the synergetic effect of numbers so that this proportionality is treated not by each committee, but by the total number of MPs and members of one parliamentary group? It is indeed extremely bold and it speaks of the ultimate intentions of the ruling majority, of its fear of what follows, when, in this way, Article 2, which says that it must have a majority on each committee, cancels the proportionate participation of Article 23(1). You offered the SNS parliamentary group to complete their membership up to 17 on boards (where you will anyway provide most of the sport and youth, family care and traffic and connections. With all due respect to the authority of these committees, the problems that are being solved, who has estimated that we should supplement membership on these committees, not for example. on another committee? Where is the right of anyone, including the first among the equal, presidents of the Assembly, for example, to say that we in the Committee on Agriculture can have three members, and on any other committee of any member? And now just tell me you respect the Rules of Procedure. In the Rules of Procedure, proportionality implies a proportionate participation of members of a particular parliamentary group in relation to the total number, but by committee rather than the sum or absolute number. As you have succeeded in mathematics that is not, but in numerical skills to put together the majority, as you think you are successfully trying to keep this people in the dark and to convince them to live better, you will not convince us that this is democracy, that this is parliamentaryism and that this is a desire to function the most legislative body in this country. We didn't make any suggestions. Here you go, by the force you're legalizing in one of these decisions called Rules of Procedure, continue. As long as it takes you, we'll all see. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43908	Four minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the deputy president of the parliamentary group. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43909	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, what we have in front of us today is an unprecedented scandal. First, the scandal was when the Rules of Procedure was brought in the way it was brought in. It's a special topic, it's behind us, we won't talk about it, but I will only mention it in the context of the discussion of today's proposal. So the way the Rules of Procedure was brought is also unprecedented in the democratic world. These acts are adopted by consensus, by agreeing on a vast majority of MPs, just to avoid the kind of trouble that Serbia's Parliament is facing today. I have said well - the troubles that Parliament faces, not the ruling majority or one of us. Indeed, the ruling majority does not have any trouble. She's gonna do her own will, so she's gonna do what she likes. The rest of us do not have any particular troubles, for the citizens will see what you do, so you will be the ones who are not likable. The opposition will be nice to people, because they are injured, above all, the interests of citizens who voted in favour of opposition parties, and those who voted in favour of the ruling coalition will likely see that they are some people who do not need to be trusted, who are trampled by parliamentaryism in Serbia in this way. Let's get to the specifics. When we saw how the committee’s affairs were summed up in a small number of committees in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and how a number of members of those committees were, one might not have turned on a lightbulb at that time when we discussed it, how clearly we see what was going on today. Except for one committee, which has nine members per new Rules of Procedure, and the other, which has precisely numbers of members by function, the other committees are composed of 17 members. This would mean that the number of members of some committees must be reduced in perspective, and at this point the ruling majority has defined that the committees that counted 15 members are now increasing to 17, i.e. Two members each. How was that procedure going? By having a parliamentary group, I guess each of us (we got this, so I guess others got that too), received a letter from the president of the National Assembly, in which he stands next. Not to quote everything, so that I would not bother all of you who have it in front of you, and also those who are watching the transfer, because it doesn't mean much to them, the members of the board are listed, so it is envisaged that in committees that have fewer than 17 members, and now they are increased to 17, according to the new Rules, they are implemented in full by the selection of new members, so that in the composition of the committee, when they determine the relative participation of parliamentary groups in the total number of members (and they are not known from the Rules of Procedure or from this letter whether they are in relation to the total number of members of all committees or of that committee; that nobody knows here, that is the question that is floating in the air, which we can dispute the summer day until noon), and then they are filled in that way that way that the majority of the parties who make up the parliamentary majority, which is otherwise in the democratic world is unhear. "According to that, it is necessary for your ambassador group to propose a number of candidates for members of the next committees," so the woman sends us a letter explaining to us which committees we have the right to have relatively. Take care, relatively, of the total number of board members in the Serbian Parliament. So someone as a parliamentary group determines in which committees we have the right to have additional members, in relation to all committees of the National Assembly, and someone remembered instead of the Democratic Party of Serbia, that no one is asking us anything, probably with other groups, that we have the right to add a member to the Committee on Transport and Relations, to the Committee on Health and Family, to the Committee on Youth and Sports. Imagine, no one invited us to ask – excuse me, do you want to supplement the members of the Youth and Sports Committee or perhaps you would like to join another committee instead of this, because it is clearly seen in proportion to the total number of board members. And you know that the total number of board members is greater than the number of MPs, because one MP, a member of a committee, can be a member of another committee. So you've created a mathematical ruin here, which has one unit. First, 90% of MPs don't understand what it says here, so neither will those who follow the transmission, but the bottom line is that you made a mathematical collapse not only for the ruling majority to have a majority on the boards, because that defines the position of Article 2 23, which is also unprecedented in the democratic world, but for you to harm on individual committees exactly the kind of strength you need for each committee. So, without any principle, it's done causually, from case to case. That's why, with LDP's right today, through the violations of the Rules of Procedure, it was a form, a political struggle, and it was exactly the remark that we're going to be rather stuck with today. It's a question of relationships, so-called. the power of the Administrative Board. Why? This whole mess (that's why I said it at the beginning – you did it all because of one thing that wasn't seen months ago, and now you see) and all these changes were made precisely because of the composition of the Administrative Committee. Because the board of directors is making certain decisions, which is why it is important that there be a stable and clean majority in every matter. If the majority of certain issues do not exist, then it was necessary to change the practical situation in the Administrative Committee. So that people wouldn't think of the time it was, then you decided to change a little bit on other committees and get it into one total of the changes that you make in the National Assembly, and as we won't remember. Well, how we won't remember when, in your opinion, you get over the problem with G17 plus, who won't vote for one decision as you want on the Administrative Board, and first of all, it's about the DSS's mandate, you want to overcome the problem now with two G17 members plus by increasing the total number of members of the ruling coalition in that committee, so that the relationship to the opposition is 10:7, to come up with the decision that you want. You can tell from the plane what you're doing. So it's quite clear what you're trying to do. Now, listen, I can understand that he'll probably respond, although there's no one to answer me because the motionary's not here... Where is he? Oh, there you are. You'll answer me later, and we'll get along fine. There are other MPs who will speak on this subject, so let's see. So there's no matrix, there's no system to explain to me that you're right to do this. I'll give you an explanation. It's very simple. If the proportion in the board members is viewed individually, let's say administrative, there are no proportions there. There is no individual among groups either, because it can be calculated as well. We can put math on paper and see how much the SRS belongs and how much it belongs to other parties. Unless, of course, the independent MPs were counting on proportions somewhere, which is not possible in this Rules of Procedure, because only groups are mentioned. So they have to be excluded from the proportion account. So you didn't do it. The ratio of 10:7 speaks for itself. If that's true, that's how it's done, that's where you're wrong. If you're going to get out now, and you're going to say that the proportion of computers relative to the total number of Members of Parliament, or the total number of board participations, so now somewhere less, and somewhere more, we can't make it ideally, it can be another thesis. Because there's this right and there's this other one, there's no third explanation. The third explanation is theft and chicane. These are the only two rational mathematical explanations, the one I'm explaining to you. So another explanation would be that you were looking at the total number so somewhere on some committee, it broke down less and somewhere more. For example, in the Committee on Agriculture, the relationship between the authorities and the opposition is 11:6. Now you can say – in the Committee on Agriculture this proportion has not been established well, it is 11:6, but compared to the total number everything is fine. And there are two questions. First, is that true? And it's not, now I'm going to prove it's not. Two, even if it were true, who gives you the right to determine the proportions of what they will look like on the committee, to deliver it to us as a finished document, as a finished memo, to which we, as students of the Spanish school, would answer you with yes or no, we will or will not send an MP to the Committee on Transport and Communications, Health and Family, for youth and sport? Who gives you the right to judge whether these three committees in which we wish to have a supplement? Where were the consultations before that? Did we talk in a democratic spirit about how we would execute that distribution? No, never. There is no witness here in the Serbian Parliament who can confirm it. So you didn't do it. And now I'm going to prove to you that even the total proportion is not good. The total proportion, according to how this is calculated and if Article 23 were respected, and Article 1 and Article 2, would be that of the total participation in committees, I am not speaking from the total number of Members, but from the total participation of Members on committees, I am counting each term on the committee as one term of office, regardless of which one MP may have two seats, meaning I am counting on each membership, should be a ratio of 168:158 to, say, the assumed proportion of 129:121 in the National Assembly. Even if it's different, it's 130:120, even if it's 137:119, it won't matter when you hear what you actually have, when you take the paper and the pen and calculate what relationship. The ratio is 194:158. Where you found those 30 differences, that's not clear to me. The ratio is 194:158. Where did you find this? By what mathematics did you come up with that this is something that respects Article 23? So, let me cut the story short. You're no good at math. And even if you take that the proportions you've made in relation to each committee individually, even if you claim to have done so in relation to the total proportion, you're no good at math. None. What's the third math? Bring me that third math without being called the chic minority by the ruling majority in the National Assembly. Bring out that math. What's your math? Come on, tell us, so we can all pass out here laughing. So to be very clear and open again, you're doing all of this, so clumsy, incorrect, upside down, just for one single reason. One MP group (also before we had, of course, problems, but I am talking about this current one) threw out of its ranks one MP, informed you that he was no longer an MP, asked for a change of mandate in accordance with the law and the Constitution of this country, and then the DS decided to press its coalition partners yes, for some of their known reasons (it is probably also called a political struggle, right? ) do not allow a member of parliament to complete his term of office. For such a decision, you did not have a majority on the Administrative Committee because you did not have a unique position within the ruling coalition. In fact, the political party G17 plus felt that it was neither fair nor constitutional or legal. The people of the Administrative Committee (with all our disagreements with them in the political or other spheres, in this sphere we agree) simply wanted to ensure respect for constitutionality and legality. You didn't want to. The ratio of power to this particular issue in the Administrative Committee was in favour of those who felt that the Constitution and the right of parliamentary groups and political parties to retain their own mandate, according to those rules provided for by the Constitution. When you saw that you couldn't, then you started to postpone the meetings of the Administrative Committee, so that you would schedule them at a time when certain members of that same Administrative Committee would not be in the country because they were en route, engaged by the same National Assembly in parliamentary organisations, so that some MPs had to come back, not to go on their way to these parliamentary organisations so that you wouldn't screw them up and vote on the Administrative Committee. Watch the game you've been playing with us all along. Then, when the majority at one of those meetings of the Administrative Board was finally confirmed to make a valid decision, one member of that committee asked for the session to be postponed because he could not be present and was very interested in the issue, and he went on some private road instead of the official to which this assembly had sent him, and then it was a reason not to make a decision although the obvious majority was present on the Administrative Committee. Here, I'm a member of that committee on behalf of the DSS, of course I was interested in the outcome of the vote, and I'm still. Earlier, an invitation was sent to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe next week, and I bet, whether this or something is being adopted here, that the President of the Administrative Committee will deliberately schedule a session with that agenda point when I am on the road, although my assembly obligation, this National Assembly, in Strasbourg, is scheduled much earlier. So it's the manner in which you do it all the time. We've been playing cat and mouse for five months. And since you're bored, so you want to cut this thing off, then you decided to do what you did. You've decided to change the composition of the Administrative Board to suit you, to skip the G17 plus on the Administrative Board and end the matter. Whether I'm in Strasbourg or not, whether someone's in Hilandar or not, whatever's going on, you're going to do what you want. And most likely, the chairman of the Administrative Board will schedule a session for Tuesday or Wednesday next week, finish this story once and for all, and that's it. Well, that's the real truth about all this. There are no specific secrets, because there is no other philosophy to explain rationality in the course of action, and when it comes to the making of Rules of Procedure, when it comes to the number of committees, the number of their members and what followed. That's what you did. No mathematics, Ms. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. There's no such thing as math. You're to us on our memo, which we sent you... We've sent you a memo twice. First, when we got this memo of yours that you told us about which committees we, like, have the right, which is probably your decision or someone from the DS advised you to do, then we asked you a very simple question. We wrote to you (here, the public knows): The DSS Group welcomes the willingness to comply with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly as soon as possible. In accordance with good practice (it was before, obviously not and you said goodbye now), we ask you to provide us with a table containing the list of committees and the number of committee members per party represented in the National Assembly, to submit our proposals for the addition of the Assembly committees as soon as possible. You provide us with a table of the composition of the board in its current state, which has absolutely nothing to do with the amended Rules of Procedure. When we asked you for the composition of the board, so we don't need to draw for you, we asked you to provide us with the composition of the board and the proportion that should be in terms of party representation towards this Rules of Procedure, not according to the previous, not according to the situation found. What would we ask you? Well, that's what we know, that's what we have on us, there's no need for you to deliver it to us. Well, then you're, like, right, and in every memo, you're warning us that we're due to submit our proposal to supplement these committees. We didn't make a proposal. We don't want to make a proposal. What do you say, you don't care? You don't care about everyone. You don't care from the beginning. You don't care about this country. You don't care what the people eat. You don't care what people do, what they live on. You don't care about the integrity of the state. You don't care about this home you chair. Here, that proves it. You don't care. Very important, we didn't deliver the three members that you ordered us to deliver and what do you care? Casualty, nothing else. Furthermore, when you submitted this proposal to the National Assembly (here it is), you counted the names of the people and the committees in which they should be members. It is great that this proposal (the journalists can take it out front) does not show who is a member of which political parties, who is a member of the parliamentary club, how this respects the proportion. Of course you can't see it, because it's not in your best interest for anyone to figure it out. Well, someone didn't hate to count. You know, someone obviously didn't hate to figure it out, and that's where the problem arises. Are you going to have a problem with this? You won't. What do you care, you'll be patient to have two or three discussions today, you'll hear that, someone will answer in a good old-fashioned way to replace the thesis or tell a story about something else compared to what's the point of the dispute and we'll move on. There, that's it. We won't be able to do anything in particular here, it's clear to everyone and it needs citizens watching this transmission to know. We can fight back. We will be able to do something only on the day that the citizens of this country conclude, and it will seem to be soon, that you are not worth anything and that you should leave, and that those who need most of you, who have, to replace, to replace with pride for this country and to create documents that fit this National Assembly and the state and the citizens of this country in which they live.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43910	The word is proposed by National Assembly President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43911	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is clear that the application of the Law on the Assembly and the current Rules of Procedure is our duty. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Article 23(2) and Article 296(2), I have consulted, of course, professional services and received a clear proportion on how many MPs should actually be added to individual committees which do not have up to 17 members, so that we can work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. For all those who don't have any math, if we had done this job in any way and suggested it would probably not be good enough or good enough. It is true that yesterday at the College, we talked very closely about this subject, that there have been speculations about honesty in the process of work itself, that there have been conversations about how it can be that this structure is also tended to be made, but I must tell you that the position of any MP in this House is not more important than the respect of the Rules of Procedure and the Law on the Assembly. The truth is, what I did was my duty and that's to suggest how we're going to do this supplement up to 17 board members. The other proposals were indeed not through the complete procedure, which so far provided the possibility of your concrete suggestions. Parliament can, of course, also be afraid of the content of work in a political way, but it is a matter of selecting individuals. The only arguments made to you on the basis of which I was led when I made a proposal like this, convinced that today's debate could possibly fix something. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43912	The People's MP Milos Aligrudic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43913	What do you say? You know, proportion 13:12 is the proportion of the composition of this home. Zero coma something more or less, depending on who to buy and who to vote for. But on average, it's 13:12. You see, my discussion was a little longer, but those who can concentrate can catch what I wanted to say. Now that it's a replica, I've got a little time, so it'll be more murderous. If the proportion is 13:12, and it is, how can it be on one committee of proportions 10:7? That's my question. You don't answer that question. You say - delivered... You can only have two answers. That's what I told you, and you ignore what I'm saying. One answer is that I am wrong, because the proportion does not count on each committee in particular, but rather on the total. That's your exit strategy, I'm offering you, here, I'm giving you advice on how to screw me up. But you can't screw me over, because the total number of board memberships is 194:158, and it has to be 170:158 to make it 13:12. So you're not right about that either. You have a Committee on Agriculture and a ratio of 11:6. What's that proportion? I asked you that, I asked you in my discussion, and you didn't answer that question. You answered what you just said – that we are obliged to bring, that we are obliged to do, that you delivered the proposal... Nobody slowed it down. We're obliged to do this. You're under the obligation to submit a proposal. You're bound by a moral obligation, and you didn't do that, to consult before any proposal is delivered. That, for God's sake, you didn't do it. What happened yesterday wasn't those consultations, because you first delivered your proposals, so then you called people, so we naturally didn't want to come.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43914	The word is from MP Zeljko Tomic. Do you want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43915	Of course, Article 7 of attitude 101 and violation of the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia by the MP Ms. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, as the proposer of all this is being talked about. I repeat once again what many predecessors have said. This is all done because of a mandate of the DSS, that is, the mandate of MP Dragan Shormaz, and that is the fact. You don't have a majority on the Management Board, you've lost it, and now you're cheating on the public, consciously or unconsciously, I don't care. As you said, I have to use one of my digressions to deceive the public when you said as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that the declaration of crimes against Serbs would take place during the summer. Last summer long ago, it's been a long fall, the Srebrenica Declaration is where it is, but there is no declaration of crimes against Serbs. And that's when you fooled the public, and now you've fooled the public. It's your manners. We just want to point out that and to present to the citizens what you are actually doing about the situation in the assembly committees, about the situation with Serbian victims in the last wars and everything else. About the state itself, after all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43916	People's MP, we're going to have to consult a stenogram, since I understand that you said Article 7(1), I hope you said Article 107. There is no breach of the Rules of Procedure, nor did the content of your presentation have anything to do with the explanation of Article 107(1) and not Article 7, which speaks of the MPs taking an oath after confirming their term of office. The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43917	Okay, Mrs. Komic, if I have hurt you, not personally, but in the relationship that is much more important to me than this political one, in any way, I ask you to forgive me. But not as vice president of the assembly, but as a friend, first of all. This is the least of the stories of Dragan Shormaz. He had Milosevic ten years ago 160 shorts, so the moment that time trampled on the parliamentary majority who was willing to listen blindly, he lost power. Now, for the party that we represent here in the Assembly, a very important issue is the future of this country. There are some situations where usually we, whether we like it or not, ask for some recapitulation and at least a few sentences about the vision of Serbia, which I guess we all work for. I have no doubt that the majority behind this proposal is also trying to do so. But what kind of Serbia is it that we create on these grounds, Mrs. Comic? Is she democratic? I don't know who in this congregation, first of all, has the right to lecture you about this procedure. Because if someone deserved it, it was deserved by the DSS, who, along with us in 2000, won the least in the election, and got a lot more chance to change something in the country, so in my opinion, he did everything to correct his five-octobaric mistake and returned Serbia to the stage in which it was before October 5th. Valuable, I don't mean personal. These ten years of democracy, which we are trying to create, are symbolized by two people -- Kostunica and Boris Tadic. Zoran Djindjic symbolizes something completely different. For those ten lost years, because what we live in today is not democracy, the two of them are responsible, and that's what Parliament needs to say. Kosovo has taught us a lesson from democracy. That Kosovo we do not recognise as a state, that Kosovo where Albanians live, which our intellectuals do not even want to compare with the people. The same people who wrote the constitution today unconvincingly defend the democratic impotence of our society through the fact that our president is also the president of one party. So Milosevic's author of the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, who were wiped out both Vojvodina and Kosovo, and everyone in this room knows how bad it was, and therefore also the writer of the democratic constitution before the democratic elections, and we all know today how bad it was, assures the public that it is not our president's exception, that, let's say, the President of France and the President of the French Party. We are the only country and democracy in Europe where the president of the state and the president of the party, and we are very interested in that democracy. What kind of system are we building? Democracy rests on reason. These are not reasonable actions. Reason is giving us other debates at this point. There are issues of crisis that we need to talk seriously about. Not to accuse each other, but to solve them, I guess. Is this the most important question, one mandate? Did we say a few times that we wouldn't let the government fall? Not because we're satisfied with any of her actions, not because we think she knows what to do at this point, not because she's even a government at all, but because we don't see any interest in Chernobyl that would then be created, which is what we only see in a reasonable debate, in dialogue with those citizens who are poisoned or incompetent, because of the impotence that comes from the misery they're exposed to, that they understand anything and realize. What happens to our people in Kosovo today? What's going on with our citizens in Sandzak? What is the economic situation in the country? What's the relationship between the parties? What kind of political system are we building? Who decides that? The assembly, parliamentary parties, our committees or some working groups that have rented quasi-intellectuals who have other political positions every year? That's the question we need to answer today, not the question of one term of office. In 2005, the Serbia symbolised Kostunica seized seats from its MPs when they decided to support someone else and defended the mandates of MPs who left the opposition and moved on to the ruling side. We don't want to arbitration about the individual at all, we want to do it on principle. We're the only party who hasn't enveloped the resignations here and I don't think you've done anything wrong when you've resigned, because your experience on such a thing has bound you, but what principle today applies in the assembly? What determines the order between us? If there is no principle, how can we say for ourselves that we live in a democratic society, which commands principles that do not respect reason? What kind of company is this? Do we have a emperor who decides everything? We'll go out to the citizens tomorrow and ask for support. For what? For 250 or 250 people with character, authority, those who defend themselves first, their jobs, institutions and thus demonstrate their ability and willingness to protect the country as well? Our congregation has been humiliated. Our president, every day, pulls his sleeve and pulls the media for some of the debts the Assembly has made. What kind of debts are these? Should we pay so the citizens can hear what we think? Who determines that tariff? And, if there's an account, how come the Assembly isn't able to pay for it, but we have to beg for 13 minutes a day on a program called Public Service? Should we bring some happy company from these national frequencies where we're entertained on twenty-four-hour shows so we can get to television on the same route? Some of us have tried and it doesn't seem to be effective enough. This is a matter of order. How will people respect us tomorrow when we tell them that pensions can no longer rest on current rights but we determine new ones? How will we be respected by those to whom we will deny funds by the budget rebalance that we will discuss in a week or two, if we ourselves do not respect ourselves? Where is the Kosovo policy going? We talked here at the end of July, in a difficult atmosphere, but President Tadic was right when he said it was a different session after all. Who wrote the Kosovo resolution? Who took that UN resolution behind the back of the government? When was that talked about anywhere? Where's the initiative after the deal with Brussels? Where is the reaction to what is happening in Kosovo? The whole country laughed yesterday when I answered a journalistic question who should negotiate with Kosovo Albanians – well, our government. Is Hashim Thaci responsible for us not believing in our own government? Who's supposed to solve the telecommunications issue? Well, Minister Telecommunications. Who is responsible for us not believing in the ability to do so ourselves, why do we not believe in the government's ability to lead this policy? If that was the necessity of the President of the Republic, who also took over the role of Prime Minister and Prime Minister and Justice and Prosecutor, then we, here, show our desire to help. But let's talk about it here. Not to stick our finger in the eye by saying -- we told you five years ago what would happen in Kosovo, we told you two years ago what would happen with pensions, we told you in July to make a deal with Europe, but by talking about it, hearing other arguments, and then together we decided something. This Rules of Procedure are an act of impotence and weakness of the ruling coalition, and therefore there is so little conviction and credibility among the proposings. It's full of fauls and nonsense, because what you're trying to defend cannot be defended through procedures and procedures like this, because the problems you're trying to solve with the Rules of Procedure are not the problems that have arisen from the bad rules of procedure. And that's just a fact. We ruled out an entire parliamentary group from the Serbian Parliament, the DSS in 2002. And today I think we were right about that, because the law allowed something like that. Whether it was fair or not, that's no longer a procedural question. On the other hand, I don't think it was fair for my coalition partners to start in our coalition to do what they weren't able to do to those our coalition won. But when the court decided that the mandates would return, we listened to something like that. At that moment, the court had two decisions, as it was led by the same man who today tried to defend the President of the Republic of Serbia by comparing it with the President of the Republic of France. It is not true, Mr. Vucic, that Sarkozy is the president of the Union, that he is the President of Xavia Bertrand, which is the least important. Something else is the essence of the problem we're talking about here right now. Does this mean there is no possibility of mutual co-operation? That's how we understand it. The Management Board hasn't met for months. He followed the logic of intrigue, plots, cheap pranks so he wouldn't meet. One MP had to leave half the meeting, another time it was not necessary for the majority, etc., and we all know very well that the only consequence of avoiding a meeting of the Administrative Committee of Minorities that stood behind one MP who decided to leave his party. We want to get an answer to a question that is respected in this country. Do we respect our constitution or not? If we respect him, then it should be manifested through the application of constitutional provisions. If we don't respect him, then we need to talk about it openly here, because it's bad. Yesterday at the College, we talked about it. There's no proportion here, but then you have to say it. Read Blair's book, I hope it shows up with us. He speaks plainly of it. It's not a make-up autobiography. He says - I was for the bombing of Serbia. He doesn't say - some counselor suggested it to me. Someone go out and say there is no quality and capacity in the opposition for that policy that the government wants to implement and that the government will make sure that within the framework of the institutions, regardless of formal obstacles, they implement their policy. It's just that there's no policy. That's why we're talking today about the Administrative Committee, not Kosovo, not Sandzak, which is why the president of the Assembly doesn't know what to say when they ask her what will happen to the declaration of Serbian victims. The declaration of Serbian victims was a laymotive to vote on victims in Srebrenica. Well, none more of us insults our past and the suffering of our people. And it's not the whim of the president of the assembly, it's the ruling majority who decided to talk about Srebrenica because at that point, I guess it was necessary to keep her in half breath. Today we are waiting for Mladic, and Mladic cannot be found even if we are looking for him. And besides the lack of Mladic, there are no of our partners who understand us, those who will send us cannons like the French in 1915 and ships on the Albanian coast and those who will give us loans like they gave us in 2000 to rebuild the country. Because no one trusts us anymore. And how can someone else trust us when we don't trust ourselves? I urge you to return to building democracy, rule of law, respect for some order, such as that, but respect for some order. Dragoljub Micunovic renewed this building not because it was his personal obsession, but because he understood the importance of Parliament's institution in one society. We don't put that decor on the congregation because it's dark in the streets, but that's how we want to highlight its specificity and importance, the attention we give. Don't let there be a glow around her and in front of her, and it'll be dark inside. Correct the mistakes you've made. Make arrangements within the ruling coalition or change the Rules of Procedure, and say, "The ruling majority decides who will be on the board and who does not." That's what we did in 2001, the radicals know. It was the principle on which we worked and for which we took responsibility. Everything that happened in Serbia from 2001 to 2003 happened with our participation and we take responsibility for something like that. But let whoever takes responsibility for this appear and say in the name of what is done. It's certainly not you, because this is not your initiative. We can't vote for this proposal, Mrs. Comic. What I want to do again, it's a few simple truths. A whole series of provisions of the Rules of Procedure have been broken, the Law on the Assembly has been broken. On the board of directors, for whom all this is done, the ruling coalition has 60% mandated, the opposition has 40%. It's not a picture of the relationship in Parliament itself. And within that ruling coalition is a particularly pronounced paradox, let's say that the pensioner's party has four times as much space as the DSS or three times as much as the LDP. It costs too much for this party's company, and if that party takes the burden on behalf of another party, then let it say it itself. Your years, sir, oblige me to respect you, but respect yourself as much as I respect you, so thank those who have applied for you to be a puppet on that committee and tell them that they themselves take the consequences of such a procedure, not to hide behind your back by running you past every procedure and order on this assembly board. The Socialists once paid for such a policy and I think on their case you see how you should behave today. I call upon you to resign if you are elected by the Assembly to take office on the Administrative Board, because this place does not belong to you, and someone else will take responsibility for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43918	The People's MP Dragan Šormaz has the right to reply, and Milos Aligrudic is the People's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43919	I'll be brief. Since I see my name being mentioned in this whole story, I'll even get out, I won't even attend the session again, because I know I don't have anything to do with this, but one thing Mr. Jovanovic said. He said -- he had Milosevic 160 shorts, so that's what I'm reacting to. I will remind Mr Jovanovic that he had Banet Ivkovic, for example, in his own time, when he was president of the parliamentary group, but that, again, has nothing to do with me. I have made it clear, and I repeat, in this debate, since you are talking about motive – I have not supported this government of the Republic of Serbia for a second now, I am not supporting it now and I will not support it in the future, as long as it works like this, and it works very badly. Unlike you, and you've just confirmed that, every day, wherever I can speak as a true opposition to this government, it takes extraordinary parliamentary elections right now. You say they didn't, because after that, it'd be Chernobyl. Well, now, who's the opposition here and who's not, you can see well even in the operation of "Belgrade Road," and in the paper, whether you're an opposition or not, but good. In any case, I repeat once again, the public is working – while I am an MP here and while this government is working this badly, I will certainly not give my vote to them and I will always be against it and I will stand up for the extraordinary parliamentary elections, which should be held immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43920	The word has the People's MP Milos Aligrudic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43921	It's a replica of what Mr. Jovanovic was saying. Without the slightest bile, just to clarify a few of the things that have been brought out here, which simply aren't true. So, first of all, I prefer to speak against the authorities rather than against other opposition parties. Someone's got some other manners, his thing. Secondly, as we go back to the past and talk about mandates in principle, we look at events from the past in principle, then we need to say something that is true. It is true that the DSS has come out of the DOS in its own time (although more so today). We had our reasons, we carried them out then. Those who opposed it felt that it was us making a problem in the then ruling coalition that brought about some other thesis. Our thesis was then and remains that day and day that we did so because it seemed to us that the ruling majority at the time, which we belonged to those 46 MPs that you expelled from Parliament, in good faith, violated the existing laws of the state in which it worked, that, instead of changing the system, so that this system and system regulations were respected, it made sense that revolutionary justice and revolutionary law without an effective change of system was enough and that any opposition to it was something that was obstruction. We couldn't handle it, and we got out. These were then our reasons, which we publicly presented. Others, who remained in the ruling majority, felt that this violated the DOS agreement by the DSS and appreciated it in different ways, as the LDP today also often stands out. Again, I am more concerned with power than with other opposition parties, but in any case, the dispute over the mandates at the time was not a simple story, and in public and today, when mentioned, it causes some confusion because things are being misrepresented. So it's simply not true, the DSS's mandates were not taken away because the DSS left one MP who left the political party, but it was the whole political group, which was in the larger group on the basis of consensus and could only be removed.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43922	Mr. MP, replica time's up. National MP Momo Colaković has the right to reply, and National MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43923	Dear Vice President, I'm amazed. It is the same way that Mr Jovanovic calls one parliamentary party, which, by the same principle, entered parliament under the same law as the other. Secondly, we just expect that, to the extent that the PUPS parliamentary group appreciates and respects other political parties, so much so as reciprocate. Mr. Jovanovic, I ask you to do this, not tell me that I respect it. We appreciate everyone's opinion, we listen, we are here all the time in Parliament, we make our contribution to the extent possible and which one is expected of us. Thirdly, I think it's very unprincipled and incorrect that now, in relation to this item of the agenda, other issues are being introduced, as you do, about pensions, etc. We'll probably talk about it at the next session, and we'll have a chance to say and express our views. As far as the Administrative Board is concerned, we didn't ask for someone from our party to be on the Administrative Board. We, on the basis of what has been delivered to us, have proposed a candidate and it is only our fault, if you can talk about the mistake you're talking about. Please respect what we say and appreciate. In connection with this dispute of yours, I will assess how and how I will work. You have no right to say now that a PUPS representative will behave on the Administrative Board in the coming period. Maybe we'll be more critical and different than you think we are now. In this regard, do not make assumptions about our account. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43924	The People's MP Cedomir Jovanovic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43925	I don't think any of the debaters really understood me. Of course, Milosevic did not have 160 MPs from Smederev, but he had 160 figures, and he made them in the Assembly. And just because you're here today in the Assembly, it's only proof that you're part of that procedure where they're going to make you a figure. And when the figure talks about his voyeur criticizing him, it still doesn't change the position he's in. Because, as a figure, you will be able to criticise DS or power until they decide to take a mandate from you by their majority, which is totally contrary to the Rules of Procedure and the Law. As they took the mandate of Ferzi Celovic. He came to Parliament's door and realized he was no longer an MP. Without a session of the Administrative Board, without any debate. So that's all it is, Mr. Shormaze. Of course, as far as the DSS is concerned, it's a long interpretation of their legalism or legionism. I don't think that's the subject of all this today. I was talking about this party, about myself and other parties, citing situations where we've managed some party interests, convinced that it's useful for the whole society. At that time, we acted differently against the laws themselves. The law allowed us as a coalition to withdraw the mandates of members of the party leaving coalition policy and we did so. Today there is no dispute in the law and in the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Colakovic, I suggest you resign and protect your party's dignity in this way. That's what I was talking about when I spoke to you. I can't tell you that, and I can't think of that. What is obvious is, in fact, so devastating that I am convinced that this cannot be solved by one opposition party, which is a question of the character of our congregation, the position in which every MP, a dictatorship that binds us to pointless situations, such as the one we are in today. (President: Two minutes. ) Why are we not discussing the key problems of the country, but the Administrative Committee? It's the will of those who in the dark formulate politics, and to us, they make up their doom.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43926	National MPs Milos Aligrudic and Dragan Šormaz were again reported in the electronic system. (Milos Aligrudic: I accidentally signed up. I thank you. The People's MP Dragan Shormaz has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43927	Well, don't let me out of the O.R. Figures or not? I don't have two meters, I have a meter and a half. I am from Smederov, thank God, but I also know what I was doing ten years before October 5th in Smederev and Serbia. I also fought for something Mr. Jovanovic says he fought for. I am who I am today and I have what I have today. On the other hand, when Mr Jovanovic asks others the question, he should answer what he had and who he was before October 5th and what he has, what he owns, what he has, and whose figure he has here today. Is he perhaps someone's figure, given what he achieved after that October 5th? I claim that he profited most of all, in every sense, from October 5th, given the position he was in. I don't want to defend as much as you said, legalists. That's their thing. I have no controversy with any of these people, only with party president Vojislav Kostunica, but, as far as I know, he didn't hang out with Shiptar and Kum, and he's not famous for it. You were also connected to visits to prison and socializing and with Schiller, which was rapidly torn down over one night, etc. His name isn't connected to that. Maybe with something else, but I'm saying again, I got nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43928	No one's asking for a line anymore. National MP Zeljko Tomic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. In that case, MPs who are currently registered - Velimir Ilic, Dragan Todorovic, Nada Kolundžija and Momo Colaković - will have the signal that they are no longer on the list because I have to delete the list so that MP Zeljko Tomic can register.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43929	Re-Article 107, which speaks of mandatory respect for the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I think the chairman had to react when Mr Jovanovic said the DSS was known for "all legalism and legionism". It is an insult, it is more than an insult, and I would remind Mr Jovanovic of the legalism of his and the government since 2001 and 2002, when, for example, there are many examples, but one of the famous arrests of Slobodan Milosevic, when he, as president of the DOS parliamentary group, led the main word there, followed by boys with socks over his head, and then we learned that there was Spasojevic, and Lukovic, and perhaps Ulemek himself, etc. So he doesn't have the right to talk about legionism and legalism. Today, I can't imagine, say, Branko Ružić, Suzanne Grubjesic or Nada Kolundji wandering around the world with some guys with socks over their heads and looking for, say, Darka Saric. Cedomir Jovanovic did this and he's talking about legalism today, and he wasn't a legalist, and he's talking about legionalism, and he's a legionist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43930	There is no violation of article 107, and I ask the MPs to listen more carefully to each other. Every space for creative expression of freedom is equal to all MPs. What goes for one goes for the other. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic did not violate Article 107. Anyone else want a line to the replica? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43931	Thank you, Madam Vice President. There's a theme here that I don't really have any conversation about. These ignorant attempts to defend a man who has been extremely responsible for the past ten years only convinces me how right I was, because he is so certain in his previous ten years that he does not leave the basement in which he was in October 5, 2000. But let's get back to the subject. I've been asked some questions about my profits. If the notion of profit in understanding individuals here in the O.R. is something peorative and disqualifying, it's not for me. My profits over the past ten years are particularly important to me. They're at least material, but there are them. What I was ten years ago, I'm not today, and that's exactly why I have the right to say what I said, let's say, in this debate. Am I rich and what I lost? I've lost a lot, and I think what I have is worth the price I've paid, and it obliges me to pay for it in the future. And I suggest you all help me together to be a congregation in which people who decide and people whose decisions are respected. And whether it was in the past or not, I think it's clear enough for each of you that I shouldn't answer if I've already opened that dilemma.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43932	National MP Momo Colakovic wants a right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43933	The Honorable Chairman, honourable Members of the People, just a few sentences. I, Mr Jovanovic, would like to thank you for your concern for the United Pensioners' Party of Serbia and the offer you made here, but we will decide on that. We decide on our own and do not look up to other political parties, who have their own sponsors. Secondly, why do you have the right to challenge one parliamentary group to have representatives in one of the committees, what do all the parliamentary groups in Parliament have? That's why I'm asking you not to say such things and offer what doesn't belong to you and what you have no right to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43934	National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43935	Indeed, this article 107... I won't answer any more questions. As much as there is a need to report to that member, I will never answer again. Here, I'm calling you last time, but I have to. Mr. Colakovic is doing one amazing thing. For the purpose of the discussion, even if it is a single replica, arguments cannot be used, as has already been said here by some MPs, who directly insult the intelligence of those present. Who here in this assembly ever challenges the right of MPs and MPs to be represented on committees? Nobody. The tyranny of those who impose on other parliamentary groups is disputed here the only option or pattern they can act on, to be a member of one or another committee, without any consultation. We dispute the possibility of a committee being, quite contrary to Article 28. Law on the National Assembly and Article 23. Rules of Procedure, represented by each proportion, as is the case with the Administrative Committee. Is the one that makes it too much in proportion 10:7 someone from PUPS or DS, we're perfectly fine with it. If we were talking about a DS member, then they might have the same argument (right? We have the right to be represented on every committee. You can't. With your number of MPs numbering 250, you simply cannot be represented on every committee. But that's why they make deals, first between you who make up the ruling coalition, and then between all of us. Between you and me, there are them, we see it, and there's no deal between us all. That's the essence of the whole story. And don't let the people who are following this transmission and the people who are sitting here, it's primarily the presidents of the National Assembly, hear arguments that are not arguments, but the dizziness and bringing out the harsh lies that offend those present.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43936	Two minutes. National MP Momo Colakovic wants a right to replication. Here you go. This closes the circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43937	If someone is destroying the dignity of this congregation, we certainly are not. I did not replicate you, and Mr. Jovanovic directly challenged our right to be on the Committee. That's why I'm asking you not to react to what you have no right to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43938	MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43939	I'm obliged to speak to Mr. Colakovic again. I truly respect your years and your party and your coalition, above all I respect you as MPs of this assembly, and I really do not intend to, nor do I think I have the right to determine where you belong and where you do not belong. I just suggested that you resign and stand up to those who decided to do so. What you are accusing me of is done by those who have proposed you, Mr Colakovic, as a member of the Administrative Board, as a representative of a party that cannot be done if the Rules of Procedure and the Law on the National Assembly are respected. That's all it is. As far as I'm concerned, be on every committee. I wish you all the best, both you and your stranger. Make it the way you do. But if there's any order here between us, then that order binds us all or it's gone. The order is committed by the LDP to a number of parliamentary seats. That order also obliges the ruling majority. In the Administrative Committee, because of the division within the ruling coalition, it is not possible to make those decisions that are important for the ruling coalition if the order is respected, so order is broken to get the majority that do not otherwise stem from the relations that are characteristic of the government's relationship with the opposition in all other situations. It's the topic I've been talking about, and I'm really suggesting that we no longer extend the discussion. I have nothing personal against you or your party, and I have no idea where you belong.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43940	National MP Momo Colaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43941	Dear Chairman, don't be surprised why we're answering for your word. Well, we have to say, when things are brought out that aren't true. No one suggested me except for my party. A PUPS parliamentary group has proposed to me as a member. It could have been someone else, so it would have been the same situation. I don't take it personally against me. But you have no right to challenge, if every parliamentary group in Parliament has a member, that's what our parliamentary group has. And don't prejudge things that now, as a parliamentary group, we're going to vote for something that's illegal or against the Rules of Procedure. You have no right to do so and you have no right to question us. If anyone in this House behaves properly, both by law and by the Rules of Procedure, it's us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43942	National MP Ivan Andric wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43943	I appeal to Article 106(2), which is that during the speech of the MPs, no one has the right to disturb them or to compromise their freedom of speech by any procedure. I've got transcripts in front of me, which you haven't been able to secure in the past hour and a half, but I did it in 10 minutes through my MP group, in which it's clear I've called on Article 107, and I demand an apology, as you asked for mine. That's the first thing. The other thing, which is much more important, is that, not listening to us (not you, I'm talking about the ruling majority) and continuing to act as a people's haughtiness, which is so noticeable here, which is that even if you're not listening to what you're saying, you're going blindly to achieve a goal, which we as an opposition just want to tell you is not good, and you're preventing us from doing it. You are making it impossible for us to say one essential message here today, and it is very simple – most are won in elections, not in the Administrative Board. Anyone who guards it by the Administrative Board, passes by as someone who violates the electoral will. That's what we're telling you. The essence is very simple. This can't be a democratic move with any mathematics. This is a move against democracy, against Europe and a move against the electoral will of citizens. Whether or not Shormaz will be, it doesn't matter, we have been telling you since 2005 – introduce one rule on the parliamentary mandate. One. We think it's best that the MP is the owner of his mandate, which is why we don't have resignations, but you introduce one, which will apply to everyone, and not to everyone else. That's all that matters. It's important to me that you, the chairman, admit your mistake just because it's evidence for us that you don't even care what we're saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43944	Two minutes. Thank you. There is no violation of Article 106(2) because Article 106(2) reads: "No one can interrupt the speaker or warn him, except for the President of the National Assembly, in the cases provided for in this Rules of Procedure". Article 106: "In the course of the speech of the MPs or other participants in the search, it is not allowed to throw away, or interfere with the speaker in any other way, as well as any other procedure that threatens freedom of speech. "In cases where I remind the MPs of the obligation to respect the Rules of Procedure, I act in accordance with Article 106(2) and then interrupt the MPs in the presentation. Your apology if during and before the opening of a single search, before the start of the debate, my actions caused any insult, damage or prevented you from expressing your position by explaining the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. Personal apology. National MP Ivan Andric wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43945	Article 107. I do not demand your personal apology. Even though I'm young by age, which I'm glad, I'm not a little kid. I'm not personally offended, so to request your personal apology, that's not the point. I'm asking for an apology just for article 106, last sentence in that attitude. By your actions, you have disrupted my right to speak freely in the congregation. I demand a political apology. And why did you do that? Because you want to prevent us from warning you that what you are doing, which is against the law and against the constitution, the increase in the number of members of the Administrative Board is intended to manipulate the mandates at least as they have been, and possibly more. And that's a bigger question than who's here and who's proposed. She cannot get two more terms of office in the Administrative Committee, because she has abused most of them so far. This will only make things worse. They will blame the election will of the citizens. Dragan Shormaz was not an independent opposition when he ran for office. And if he was an independent opposition and has the right to his mandate, then he has the right and the gentleman you forced out in 2008. There's no difference between them. We tell you, one rule for all. We tell you who we think should be, but it can't be for one another, for the other. And making it impossible for us to say that what you're doing against it is a violation of the Constitution and a violation of my freedom of speech. I'm not personally offended, Mrs. Comic, and I'm sorry you got that impression.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43946	People's MP, I can't answer anything other than to not understand how an apology can be treated as an insult. I apologized to you, you say that I violated Article 107(1), or I did not respect the dignity of the National Assembly. I can't explain how an apology is disrespect for the National Assembly, so I think the National Assembly needs to make a statement in the voting day. MP Velimir Ilic has a word, as president of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43947	Madam Chairman, gentlemen and ladies of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask you on behalf of 'New Serbia' to withdraw two of our candidates who have been given to supplement – Mladen Grujic from the Committee on European Integration and Srdjan Spasojevic from the Trade Committee. We are withdrawing our candidates for the reasons that we have heard in this debate, when we have seen what the goal is, when such procedures and such additions belittle Parliament, when you have no good intentions for this Parliament to work better, to have better committees, to have these committees work in the interests of the citizens of Serbia, you already want to get an absolute majority in individual committees where you need them, and thus to humiliate and clear down the reputation of this Parliament. This has also happened to the Rules of Procedure, which is also the case, a simple violence happens in this House when you want to get a majority on certain committees so that you can do some of the things that you need to do in order for this area to survive. You're expected to have major problems in the next period. You have a budget ahead of you. You don't have a majority. You don't have an absolute majority that you can make decisions, but you want in this way and in ways that are done at local levels across Serbia... Here's a recent case in the King, when the council's mandates were kidnapped, when the councilmen were brought to the session, when the police were on duty outside the door, when the opposition committees were held in the cordon, out of the O.R., etc. Such violence does not lead to democracy, it does not lead to what we wanted, it does not lead to the EU, it is certain, and that is why I am convinced that this government and this assembly majority can never bring Serbia into the EU, because every day we are further away from democracy, and you are doing this for a simple reason to extend power at least a few days. That's why we don't want to be involved in all of this, and that's why we're pulling our candidates, because we don't want to be in favor of your intentions. The ruling coalition does not have a stable majority and collects MPs from the end and rope to make certain decisions. It's more unsustainable and impossible to maintain. Here, you see, we haven't been busy for very long, and in Serbia, very big things have been happening. You remember that session in the UN Assembly, when our decision, our resolution from this parliament, was thrown into the trash basket, when no one talked about it, but laughed and made a new decision on behalf of this parliament, which was used by the UN Assembly. I suppose we were obliged as MPs, I guess you who run this parliament were obliged to at least inform us in writing what these changes were and what they were really about. We've been humiliated countless times. We were humiliated in front of our citizens when we insisted that one resolution be adopted on Srebrenica, Bratunac and all crimes at the premises of the former Yugoslavia. The ruling majority has also said that it is simply a violent decision to adopt only for Srebrenica, with a promise that another resolution, which has not been adopted so far, will be adopted within 30 days, nor has anyone mentioned it. These decisions of yours, Serbia is humiliated, we are all humiliated here, we are humiliated in front of the citizens who have chosen us because such big decisions are made in this House without our knowledge and whoever comes to mind... One ambassador comes along and changes Parliament's decision, Spain comes forward and says, "This resolution is not right," we have another resolution that will pass. The president shows up and talks to the EU and says - we agreed on a new resolution. And what are we in this House? What is the Serbian Parliament? What do we represent? What decisions do we make? You remember how many opposition struggled not to adopt the Information Act, how much the debate was that it was against it. You insisted, convinced that it was all right and you did what you did, that a little later the Constitutional Court would put it out of force and say it was against the constitution. You remember how many of your interviews, from the ruling coalition, your discussions that Europe is seeking to pass an anti-corruption law that will take this Serbia into the EU and that without it we cannot enter and move closer to the EU. When we brought it in, you simply returned it, annulled it, put it off, what you had already done, to save some people whom this law did not suit, and to encourage corruption, and not to suppress it. This is proof that you from the ruling coalition are only working to stay for a few more days, a few more months, to survive by the end of the year, from budget to budget. It doesn't matter, you might even push the whole term. Here, three construction seasons have passed, you haven't done anything serious. Next spring comes your fourth. And just stories and empty stories. So I would ask you to do everything, because it is your duty, that we no longer underestimate this Parliament, that you do not humiliate us, that you do not put us in an awkward situation to make certain decisions that someone there throws in the trash basket and says it's not worth anything. I listened to the president of Serbia who proposed. Why hasn't he consulted the EU before, why hasn't he agreed to the proposal? Why did you come to the assembly and ask for the support of the opposition? Most of the opposition has also given you support, because you said that if you get it, if there are more than 200 MPs, the chances of doing something in the UN are great. In order for Brussels, so that your friends from the EU would scold you, so they would reject it, put you out of line, that it was humiliating for us to look at it. Parliament did not sit in that period. You have not honored us to bring this new resolution and to read it, to see what has been adopted and in what way, whether or not the Constitution has been broken. Does anyone have the right to reject this House's decisions here? You remember that some infrastructure council rejected the concession adopted by this parliament, and by the vast majority, to discuss afterwards... Some advice headed by the president of the state. Let us crown him, and let him be king; let him be king; let him decide for himself. If he's already doing it, let's make it official. Let's put the Constitution out of force, make a decision - we don't need the Constitution if no one respects it. The constitution breaks at every turn. You've frozen wages, and some very key people of the ruling coalition raise salaries. They raise them all they want, do what they want. They literally do what they want. Some people here now want to make some new regions, they don't fit. Some political ones. What we didn't listen to these summer days from Minister Dinkic. Wherever he goes, he's giving some lectures. Neither who he asks nor who he is interested in Parliament, nor what the government says, or the opposition, nor the government, nor the prime minister, nor the president, nor anyone. The man goes, he's a solo player, who has his own role and no one can say anything to him. So we're funny here, like the MPs who simply do our job the way we're supposed to do it, but you break it all, change it, and do literally what you want. That's why it's no wonder you and I are mixing. They do what they want. A patriarch should be enthroned these days. Is it not a shame for this Parliament that no one from Parliament can attend this solemn act, which may be happening once or twice in the life of a man, a politician, that the President of Parliament cannot attend, that the heads of parliament, that MPs cannot attend, but that everything can be represented only by the president of the state? Therefore, we do not know who we are, or what we are, or what we are doing in this Serbia, in which we are literally doing what we want and how it will be, where this people see no way out of this difficult situation, especially the economic situation, where this parliament allows ministers not to report to Parliament, that the government does not submit a report, that those questions we ask, and which we are going to ask today, we ask countless times, and no one answers them... No one's given any answers yet. I asked the prime minister a direct question why they don't stop the work of Nuba Investa and why it's done the way it's done. Here, they've come to Nis. Who made it possible for Minister Dulic to do such criminal acts? How can a highway be given without a tender, with a free contract? How can you literally do what you want in this country, change Serbia's spatial plan, etc.? Nobody cares about that. So it's still too high to ask questions to someone who doesn't give answers, who doesn't want to answer a single question, but has only one goal -- to survive until New Year's, and then we'll see, to push that budget through, so we'll see what happens. That's why we have a difficult situation. We have the most expensive energy in Europe, the most expensive oil in Europe, the cheapest products in Europe, the lowest wages (now we are under Macedonia, Kosovo, Albania). Therefore, this Serbia is coming into a difficult situation and that is why we have proposed elections, which are the only way to do something. So I appeal to the opposition, to understand this difficult situation and that there is no here, as there has been now, the bickering between opposition parties and the replicas, to realize that we have one arrogant power, a globular power, an expensive power, which literally does what it wants and does not mind the opposition, a people who are in big trouble, in big trouble, which is not interested in the Serb village, which is not interested in anything that is happening right now in Serbia, but is only interested in keeping the government as long as possible and so, well, regardless of which, let Serbia fail. So I ask you to withdraw these suggestions, which you have made. Because this is a shame, that in one committee, which is the key to this House, you have a ratio of 10:7, and in Parliament is not this relationship, the relationship between the government and the opposition is not such, and it is not respected and it is a violation of both the Rules of Procedure and everything. You can't supplement how you think and how you want. Someone's place must remain empty if necessary, but you can't supplement it in this way and create an absolute majority, and you have no right to do so. That's not what the people gave you in the election. Citizens didn't vote for that kind of relationship. You can't buy MPs, you can't take, you can't bring them in, you can't keep them there, you can't make promises, you can't take them in, you can't keep them there, you can't keep them there. Here, you saw Dinkic when he promised towers and cities in Bor. And he won and boasted about it. The whole Bor is on his feet, why doesn't he go tell them something? There's no time now. Now he's got another town to cheat on, another region to cheat on. He now has his own economic embassies, travels around the world and makes deals. Why don't they give our businessmen 10,000 euros if they hire one worker? Why not give ours at least 5,000 euros, but suck out everything they earn and what they have and put them in a difficult situation? It gives the foreigners 10,000 euros per head of the employee, and when the stranger comes, we pay him to build a company and he still has to come, and to make the cheapest salaries currently in Europe, 12-13 thousand. What's that look like? What's that supposed to mean? What about the Jurassic who came to Rach? That's where you took the power to bring the factory. So, what did you do? You didn't do anything. You deceived the people, and now they drive people out of Kragujevac to meet some work obligations. Therefore, I think even the smallest child in Serbia sees major fraud at this point. Now there's a shortage of milk. Fifty times I spoke in this parliament about the lack of milk because you allowed milk to be imported to powder and to completely destroy production in Serbia. Just smile, Mrs. Comic. You are the only one who violates both the Constitution and the law and the Rules of Procedure and all that you need to respect and be sacred to you. You are the only committees you want to make, make decisions, and that, like Parliament, you are voting after most of it, which leads this Serbia to major problems, which are growing from day to day. Respect the law throughout Serbia's territory. You beat up a cheerleader here for a little something, and look what the individuals do to you on certain parts of your territory, and you can't report you're alive. So try and organize the Pride Parade. We wish you success. It costs Serbia a lot, millions of euros, which is where you'll bring thousands of cops and gendarmes, to strut that you've managed to build a Pride Parade. But you're our mess, and they're your pride. And those who are your pride, we are ashamed of them and of you for doing so. But we can't change it until the election, and we hope there will be elections very soon. Then we'll see what the people want in the election. Whatever the people will, they will respect. You are now talking about some changes, democratisation of Serbia, about October 5th. How are you not ashamed to mention that October 5th? You used that unfortunate and tormented people to come by some guys who now rule, who weren't even in the first 10,000 in the five-octobaric changes. You only have Micun as an icon here, you take him as a mask, all of this goes away. So, we'll see what happens, and please pull this back, because this is the biggest disgrace for Serbia, that after some democratic changes, we're making these committees by force, something that doesn't look like... You started talking to the opposition through a video link on shows like Question. Your ministers must not face the opposition, they must not look at them in the eyes, but the video-link manager says – enough, so turn it off. Well, it can't be like that. That's not even Sloba did when he was the greatest dictator... (President: 20 minutes. )......................................................................................................... And believe me, you're doing it now. I've been watching recently and it's really embarrassing for Serbia. You're going to be talking to us here a little while longer, through some...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43948	National MP, 20 minutes. The time at your disposal has been used. Thank you. On the basis of Article 90(2) and on the basis of Articles 87, 1 and 4, I am informing the National Assembly that during today, the break will be set at 15.00 hours and that, under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, from 16.00 to 19.00 hours, parliamentary questions will be asked to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and this session will continue after 19.00 hours if there is a need for work after 15.00 hours. The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43949	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't believe that the wings of Joseph Broz Tito - "Don't stick to the law as a drunk float" - would be overcome. With this proposal and the way you did it, you've overcome it. Joseph Broz meant the law that was already passed, which is valid, so that it should not be applied in all cases, that it should be kept in mind, as it was once said, that we protect the staff, but what you did today, suggested in this way, is simply incredible. To be honest, I'm surprised Ms. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic has put her signature under such an act. To appeal to the Law on the Serbian Parliament, to appeal to the Rules of Procedure and to violate it, is the highlight of hypocrisy. I just can't personally understand that you agreed to sign something like you signed. You say you asked for the opinion of professional services, that you relied on that opinion. I can believe it or not, here, I believe, but I guess you've had a chance to hear what this proposal is all about -- pure manipulation and abuse. There's nothing else behind this. I will tell you, Mrs Dejanovic, what is the relationship between the ruling majority and its rights on committees when it comes to the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The ruling majority is entitled to 51.2%. With this proposal, the ruling majority provided 57.6%. Where did you get this 6%? On what right do you take those 6%? You're not stealing from the SRS. You are directly stealing from the citizens of Serbia, those are their voices. That's how you steal from the election. That's why we don't have a single polling list. That's why you didn't do anything to ensure a fundamental equality in the elections, because the government provides you with an advantage, assures you that millions of euros are invested in election campaigns to buy citizens to give a vote to you. But it's stealing. When it's definitely going to come back to you, I don't know, but I'm sure it'll come back to you. The only thing that delights me in this is the fact that whenever the government reaches for this kind of usurpation, this brutal violation of the law, I know that the end is coming. You know, when a law on the fight against terrorism was proposed in 2000, it was a red thread that the SRS, no matter what was in the coalition in power, did not want to cross. We wanted to provide an instrument to deal with political opponents, and you're doing it right now. You crossed that red thread in 2008, allowing for the theft of the mandate, stealing the votes of Serbian citizens in the Republika Srpska Assembly. You stole the SRS' mandates because that's how it suits you. What's evident, you're acting like one, volunteering. What suits me, that's good. Is it according to the law, is it according to the Constitution, you are absolutely not interested in anything. But as hypocritical as you are, the best example is the current situation related to the Ministry of Human Rights and Minister Ciplic. You see how life puts you in a position to deny yourself and jump into your own mouth. One national council was to be formed, however, when the national council was formed, the two elected turned to one side. I listen to Minister Ciplic explain that it is illegal, illegal, because they have been selected on one list, and now they have gone to others, and he does not recognise it as a national council. Well, how come you don't recognize and apply what you applied in the Serbian Parliament? It's just that there's nothing to be ashamed of. You're not interested. You're interested not in creating something, but in extending power in an hour, two hours, one day, two days. That's what's your only goal. Because, if otherwise, you would not have trampled everything that, in the extreme line, has succeeded in achieving this assembly and reaching some limits, some democratic processes that have provided as much for some kind of normal functioning and what is much more important than that, to slowly reduce inter-party tensions, to turn more or less, whether we are in power or opposition, solving problems that our country and our citizens have. In these two years, however, you have trampled everything. One good principle, that opposition parties have presidential seats on boards that are important by jurisdiction, is that you brutally eliminated and kidnapped, because it doesn't suit you. And what doesn't suit you? To hear the truth. It doesn't suit you because that theft you've committed would either be prevented or at least publicly branded. You're acting like that emperor in the story of "Care's new suit." It's not that he's naked, it's that everyone who points to it. So in your case, it's not a problem that you've cut into crime, it's not a problem that you've brought the state to the brink of existence, it's a problem for those who point to it. And your policy, according to the results, is practically leading to destruction itself. Maybe it's not for you, because you don't have an alternative. Your trip to Europe means you have to fulfill all the orders that the West requires of you, and there's no dilemma there. The West is asking for Serbia to come down to Belgrade's pasture and that's what's going to happen. You will defend. How? With the help of Turkey, which has taken over the ruling role here. It is she who determines for you what declarations will be adopted by this congregation. And you accept that. Today, Europe is asking you to give up your co-operation with Russia and China. And you'll accept that. Here, you can already hear Gilas putting certain objections to the construction of the Zemun-Borch Bridge. Nothing's an accident. Behind these announcements, we can expect you to give up what is notoriously announced and what is good for this country and that what few friends we have will simply disperse. Because you don't have an alternative. Unfortunately, this time without an alternative has led us to a situation where today in Serbia you have a million citizens below the poverty line or at the very edge of poverty, close to a million unemployed, are completely destroyed production. You have a state where nothing is produced. You bind your existence and survival only to the help you get and the kidnapping, literally kidnapping from those who do so much, and you put them in a position to stop working very quickly because it's impossible. And you act like that because those who decide to do it, to the greatest extent, have never done anything in their life. They came here after October 5th with a bow and a purse, you gave them the power to rob everything they could rob and to suggest what to do. Look at the fines for the companies, for the banal offenses. Did one of these guys who used to buy something, maybe one product, and then resell it without losing it, not necessarily earn it? Did he create anything? Did he open up the only job anywhere? No, because they don't care. They have their actions in banks, which are measured by millions of euros, and why they would be interested. Why would Bozidar Djelic be interested in how Serbian citizens live? He took care of himself. When this is over here, as it ended in Russia and Poland, where he advised, he will pick up the pinkles and leave this country, as many will go. Praise the Fifth of October. Where were you on October 5th? Where's your Minister of Energy? Here, one boasts he's here, and he was here on October 5th, but let him say what his watch is worth. Let him raise his hand, show that watch, and say what it's worth. But don't fool the people that it's a fake. He has to know as a lawyer he can't wear fake products. He's in the O.R., he knows who I'm talking about. Therefore, you need to take care of it. The best example is that you have no one else to point to talks about what you've done to this country and where you've been since October 5th. The ones who stayed are burning and burning. They have deployed their personnel and, in practice, manage both the ministries and the Serbian Assembly and have absolutely no doubt about whether something should be done or not. If they think it suits them and get a warrant, there's no dilemma, they'll do it. Is it going to hurt anyone and if it's injustice, what do they care? Why would they care about that? And in order not to tell the story, I will give you concrete examples when it comes to assembly committees, as things stand by the parties: ZES has six members of the Committee more than the percentage belongs to it, SPS two, LDP two, party minority parties two and PUPS one more. That's a total of 14. And do you know who took these 14 terms? The SRS. You've taken our mandates, and now you're taking away our right to have representatives on board. Here, Mrs Dejanovic, I would ask you to help us, to explain how you interpret the Law on the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Article 28, where it is said that the National Assembly selects board members and deputy board members on a proposal from parliamentary groups of MPs relative to the total number of MPs in the National Assembly. He is also a member of the Rules of Procedure, who also says that. Now you explain to the citizens of Serbia how it is possible to respect this member of the law, to respect Article 23 and Article 24. The Rules of Procedure, and the SRS has 14 MPs less on boards. How is that possible? How do you agree to that? Well, you're the president of the assembly, you're the first to be called to protect the law and the Rules of Procedure, and you sign this proposal. How is that possible? What are your motives for agreeing to keep your name under such an act? Mrs. Dejanovic, if you did something like this in your profession, you'd have serious problems. In your profession, you have certain rules that you must, I suppose, in certain cases apply, and you apply something completely different, although it says explicitly to you, you know that you might be able to answer for it, and you'd probably answer for it, and you don't care about it here. But this is much more serious. This is the Council of the Republic of Serbia and you must not allow this. You can't let this happen because of you, because that's why you're coming into a position that if someone ever applies these same methods to you, you won't even have a moral right to object to it. You simply can't, you don't have the basic moral right to protest in any way, because that's how you acted while you were in power. You have the opportunity to hear that those who used to behave in the same way now don't have much right to talk about it and to honor others, especially by making sure that you don't have much use for this, but those who rule on your behalf, steal on your behalf, destroy this country on your behalf, and you're legalizing it here, you're apologising it here. Why? To get one member of one committee over. For what? Because that coalition of yours is rotten. She's rotten because it's impossible for someone to agree to something, and the other side doesn't agree. That's what he says about you and them, because in other cases they agree to other things, but they're not responding right now. That is why you resort to this brutal act of robbing the votes of Serbian citizens and taking away the rights of parliamentary groups that they have under the Law on the National Assembly and on the basis of the Rules of Procedure. Then how can you explain to anyone that he should be responsible for anything? How can you ask anyone to follow the law and respect something when you don't? With what right does a trafficker need to stop a citizen and charge him a fine if the Serbian Parliament does not respect the law? Okay, you can't formally pay the fine, but why would any citizen have to do that? Instead of setting an example of respect for the Constitution and the law, you set an example of brutal violation of both the Constitution and the law. What's the reason? Simple – because it is useful to you at this point. As harmful as this is to the state, you will never be interested in it, nor will you be interested in it. One of the participants in the previous talks, especially when it comes to problems related to Kosovo and Metohija, from your former ranks, said nicely – you speak one thing when you talk to foreigners, then Kosovo is not important to you, but it is important to calm the citizens of Serbia. (President: 20 minutes. That's the biggest problem. You fight only for form, and the essence is terrible...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43950	Thank you. The word is proposed by National Assembly President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43951	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to quote our Rules of Procedure, Rule 23, and Article 296(2), which say that committees with fewer than 17 members are scheduled to complete the selection of new members by providing the majority of those parties who make up the parliamentary majority in determining the proportion of participation of parliamentary groups in the total number of members. I ask you to inform the public about the text of the Rules of Procedure as it is in the Rules of Procedure and as we have voted here in Parliament, on the one hand. On the other hand, my proposal, of course, is very much subject to all the corrections and the Assembly will decide on my proposal. (Dragan Todorovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43952	You have no right to a replica. National MP Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic did not cause any replica, nor did she leave any vague state. You cannot have a replica to read the Rules of Procedure. The People's Parliament read the Rules of Procedure. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43953	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the MEP Group will vote for this decision and I would like to say that this decision was made as a result of the application of the new Rules of Procedure adopted, on the basis of Articles 23 and 296, which oblige the Assembly to implement, in committees of less than 17 members, the completion before the end of this term. It may have been missed by some at the time we adopted the Rules of Procedure, and now they are unhappy about it, but there is an explanation for the solutions that we then proposed and adopted. Namely, what is the interest, I want to believe deeply - all MPs of this assembly, whether they rule or opposition? The interest is that Parliament can work. So there are no obstacles why Parliament or its committees cannot work. What was also the intensity of the Law on the National Assembly and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is to transfer the focus of Parliament's work to committees. This meant creating adequate conditions in which committees would be able to work. And why couldn't the committees work so far? I would like to remind myself that in the agreement of the committee's composition, the parliamentary majority showed maximum correctness at the very beginning, providing for the possibility not only of proportionate representation of all parliamentary groups, but of the possibility that the opposition has a majority on some committees. What is the consequence of this parliamentary majority's willingness? The consequence is that some committees have never met. Why? Because the opposition MPs do not want to participate in the work quorum. If the opposition has a majority, then it's logical that this committee can never start working. We had a dilemma about whether we would take measures to allow committees to work uninterruptedly, respecting, above all, the commitment to the citizens of Serbia who sent us here, so that the committees, as well as this assembly, would do the work for which the citizens chose us. The new Rules of Procedure's intensities were to allow for the smooth work of the board. I would also like to remind those who are against Serbia's entry into the EU and those who are in principle or consistently in favour of Serbia's European integration, that it is a huge job in front of the Serbian Parliament if we want to achieve that goal. In order to achieve that goal, among other things, we must enable the congregation committees to work smoothly. That is why today's decision to bring us in line with the Rules of Procedure that we have made and which we only wanted to enable all committees in this House to work uninterruptedly. I would like to remind myself, too, that even in the old rules of procedure, but also in the new rules of procedure, every MP is obliged to participate in the quorum, that there are even sanctions for those who do not want to do so. We did not want to apply sanctions to those MPs who sometimes, I must say, pushed themselves into some committees, and later did not show any desire to participate in their work. Searching for a way that will enable this assembly to work uninterruptedly and that will allow all Assembly committees to work to the extent necessary to achieve the tasks ahead of us, we have defined ourselves to, above all, increase the number of board members in order to allow all parliamentary groups to have their representatives on each committee, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to allow, regardless of the obstruction of opposition board members, committees to meet, debate and make decisions. All this stuff here today might make sense if we didn't have unequivocal statistics. No opposition board member has ever wanted to participate in the board's work quorum. Not a single one. Very rare exceptions when they are. It just meant a complete blockade of the work of some committees. And not one committee, but a large number of committees. By making this decision, we will take full responsibility for the citizens of Serbia and say - we have made this decision because we want to allow the Assembly committees to do their job, that the Assembly will do the job that the citizens have chosen us for. For all the other topics that are now open here, I think the topics you can use in four hours, when the government comes, so ask questions to the government, and you can use them when there are other points on the agenda. They only show, in my opinion, a truly deep absence of responsibility and for their own role in the work of this Parliament, because if some opposition MPs think that their role is here to prevent the majority, which the citizens have authorized, to do the job we are here for, then they must understand that by respecting the democratic principles, the parliamentary majority must and has the responsibility to find solutions that will prevent and show responsibility for the work that we are doing here not only in the short term, which is necessary, but also in the best possible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43954	Seven minutes and thirty seconds have been used since the time of the parliamentary group president. National MP Zoran Nikolic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43955	I refer to Article 108 and Article 23. Article 108 – it is not directly your fault, but this has already happened several times, that the parliamentary unit of the electronic voting system, which is also used to notify MPs, is not working. I called before Mrs. Hope Kolundjia, but I can see that this MP unit of mine isn't working. You warned me about it and I found an alternative solution. As you can see, and when they take away your word in this way, it's possible to find an alternative. I also refer to Article 23, because of what the speaker of the assembly quoted, in this case the authorised promoter. So, in your first reply to Mr. Milos Aligrudic, you sounded just like Prime Minister Cvetkovic, unmistakably, but now that you've quoted the Rules of Procedure, you've done something that even Mr. Cvetkovic, the prime minister, is not working, which is – you've roughly deceived the Serbian public. And when he does that, he does it unwittingly, and you've tried here and you've been able to present briefly how according to the Rules of Procedure you have the right to most of it. That's not slow to you, but there's a question here, and it's really a courage for anyone from the ruling coalition to defend this attitude, the relations of the majority and the minority. Also, Slobodan Jovanovic (I now recommend you read this, after you compared the President of Parliament) with the geographical map. Therefore, relations that are real in nature are pictured in parliament. Everything is transmitted to the geographic map just as it is in nature. If something is a certain length, it is passed on to the map in an adequate proportion. It is also the Serbian parliament, as well as every parliament in Europe and the world. If the ratio is 8:7, if the ratio is 9:8, it cannot be 10:7, and especially cannot be on the Administrative Committee. In that sense, you've made a rude mistake to the public and stop doing so.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43956	Thank you. I apologize to Parliamentarian Zoran Nikolic for his failure to function as a parliamentary unit. Each chair member of the 27th undertakes to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, by telling you that there really is no evil intention in which unit will be correct or not, but it is unacceptable to be incorrect in the event that you want to report for the word. I'm sorry. Article 23 has not been broken in any of its provisions. National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. (Dragan Todorovic: Replica. You have no right to a replica. You want a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43957	Article 107: "The speaker at the meeting of the National Assembly is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly." I think that this first position obliges, above all, the President of the Assembly not to insult the elementary intelligence of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the MPs of the Republic of Serbia. You're saying you had the right on the basis of the Rules of Procedure to have the ruling majority make proposals for the members of the Committee. Then why did you ask the opposition states to make their proposal as well? That's the first thing. Secondly, why don't you explain where you get the right to take 6% more than you have representation in the Serbian Parliament? Where did you get that right? It's stealing. You're entitled to 51.2%, and you took 57%. You have no right to do that. When it comes to the obstruction of the congregation, you can see what the double arches are like. One party, which is now leading here, DS, has proposed 2,000 amendments in one period and no one has said they have no right to do so. That obstruction is, yes, but it's their right. It's right to obstruct, because that's their political stance. But what's the problem? When someone else does, there's no right to it. Remember that same party, DS, has been absent from the work of the Republika Srpska Assembly for a year. Everyone was getting paid neatly, all of them. They took 50 million at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's cash register. They have a right to. Why? Because that's when it was right for them. No one has the right to do that today. It's obstruction. And you deceive Serbian citizens that this is a reason to work for the Assembly. That's not true. Ninety percent of the board doesn't work because there are no members from the ruling majority. When the budget was to be adopted, Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, of the eight committees, did not hold a session because members from the ruling majority did not attend. And you're talking about obstruction, work and that you want to work! You deceive Serbian citizens. You don't want to work, you want to deceive Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43958	There's no damage to article 107. National MP, National Assembly Speaker Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic quoted the rules of the Rules of Procedure. It is hardly possible that reading the provisions of the Rules of Procedure could endanger the dignity of the National Assembly. National MP Vesna Pesic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43959	No, I took your word for it, thinking you'd make it... Because I'm first in line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43960	Thank you. We haven't arrived yet. You'll reapply. We are still in session when they have the right to report for the word representatives, i.e. authorised representatives of parliamentary groups. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43961	Right on the line. I refer to members 103 and 107. The Rules of Procedure were injured because the previous speaker insulted the parliamentary group. I am speaking to you, the chairman, and I ask that you do not allow insults to be expressed here at the expense of the parliamentary groups or at the expense of individuals, such as, for example, the harsh insult on the expense of Slavica Djukić Dejanovic. So I report to the Rules of Procedure for the inadmissible use of insults in each other's communication.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43962	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. As much as in the views and statements of various MPs of the acuity of speech in an attempt to argue, once again I ask you all to take care of the language we use and not to insult each other. National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43963	Article 27, second position: "The President of the National Assembly takes care of the application of this Rules of Procedure." Please explain to the citizens of Serbia which rules of procedure you apply. Because it's obvious here that you gave the previous speaker your word without even pointing out on the basis of which it appeared. So first it was a replica (I'll get you a stenogram), and then it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Comic, because of you, not because of the SRS and me... I'm glad you Serbian citizens are showing such obvious abuses and double arches. You do not give the representative of the SRS the right to a replica, in the afternoon session you gave to one and the same MPs... (President: National MP, the right to replica is not the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please take care of the 103rd and your duties. ) I am talking about Article 27(2). If I have to repeat it to you, to find a connection, he says, "The President of the National Assembly" (you are not the President, so you may think it does not apply to you, but it is analoguely applied to you) "the old one is about the application of this Rules of Procedure. " (President: I'm getting old. Mrs. Comic, I want to help you. You may not want my help, but, you know, doctors face such problems in practice. It's just that someone doesn't want his help. But I have to try to help you. Whether I can make it or not, I don't know, maybe it'll go better with Mrs. Dejanovic's hand. You must make sure you apply the same arches to all MPs. It would be something that is a civilization achievement, the fundamental right of the people who entered this congregation, and you brutally step on it. And that's the problem we're facing.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43964	Two minutes. Thank you. There is no violation of Article 27, paragraph 2, because MPs used their right to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. A stenogram also shows that People's MP Nadia Kolundzija, president of the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia, is responsible for the failure of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vesna Pesic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. We are still in session when I have an obligation that, after all those who believe that a breach of the Rules of Procedure has occurred or are seeking a replica, they end up with their demands. So, do the presidents or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want the word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 96(4), they are Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing and with the order of MPs, submitted the following parliamentary groups: the LDP parliamentary group, the DSS parliamentary group, the SRS parliamentary group. Out of the ten reported for the word, the first in a row is the folk MP Vesna Pesic, and after that, MP Zoran Shami. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43965	Thank you for giving me your word and for having to endure these discussions, which had little to do with the Rules of Procedure. When it comes to this problem, I think things are crystal clear and there have been discussions all along that have nothing to do with anything. So, in principle, I haven't heard here that someone has disputed that the ruling majority on all committees gets a majority. Although, I must say, it was not common at one time, and of course it was a humiliation to the opposition that nowhere on any committee could have a majority, but it must always be the ruling majority. Even in this congregation it was not a custom, but now you have introduced such a custom that you must have a majority everywhere. So, if no one questioned it, and this is about one committee, that the special board, the Administrative Board, violates Article 23. Rules of Procedure, and then Rule 28. The Law on the National Assembly, which refers to the proportionality of representation, and it's just that, I haven't heard Mrs. Kolundji explain why this proportionality is being violated when it comes to the Administrative Committee. I refuse to humiliate this assembly and talk about this or that MP, about some individuals, because as soon as we talk about individuals, it means that we are no longer the Serbian Parliament, it has nothing to do with Parliament. Therefore, you did not respond as possible. If we make a simple calculation, when 250 MPs are divided by 129, which represents your majority, it's equal to 17, and we get that when it comes to this committee, which has 17 MPs, the ruling majority belongs to 8.8, and that means nine MPs. The relationship on that committee should be 9:8. Why is this ratio 10-7 - we have not been able to get an answer here. So that's the essence of our discussion. I must say that there is no other explanation than that the ruling majority wants to retain the discretionary right not to uphold neither the Constitution nor the law nor the rules it makes itself, but that, when it comes to the mandates of the Members, it simply ends the will of the citizens as it comes to mind. The second explanation, in my opinion, is gone. I warn you that ten years after the 5th of October you are violating the rule of representativeness, which is the basic principle of democracy, and that is exactly what is happening today, and we can really say that Serbia, when you boast that you are a democratic state, is not a democratic state long ago. The principle of representativeness has been trampled here to make most of it suit you and to really introduce total volunteerism when it comes to mandates. I remind you that the LDP, and I have personally criticised in many of my texts the signing of the blank resignation, because there is no greater humiliation for the MP than to sign an advance blank resignation. What, though, do you benefit from these blanco resignations? Some time the blank resignation is accepted, so this man gets kicked out, waits for him at the door and gets kicked out, and the second time, when that blank resignation is submitted regularly to the Parliament's counter, then it just goes over it like it didn't happen at all. Do you know that there is also a Article 102? The constitution, which says the MP is free to return his mandate to the parliamentary group, or to the party from which mandate he was given? However, all these rules have been broken here, because they need to happen from case to case, that you are trying to maintain this majority and manipulate the voices of the people. Why should we even have more choices? You best declare that you have most of it once and for all, because most of it will be able to construct it according to free will and volunteerism, as it suits you. So that's what this is about. We didn't get an answer as to why a mistake like this was made on the Management Board. In doing so, I do not engage in relations with the ruling majority itself, I am not known to whom you are going to put, but this proportionality does not correspond to the representativeness and you have violated the two members that I have cited.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43966	Five minutes of MP time was used. The People's Messenger, Zoran Shami, has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43967	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if we were in a Parliament that works in accordance with the law, the Rules of Procedure or, if you will, some basic elemental humane way of doing business, this point would take, by my judgment, about three minutes or just as long as it takes the chairman to read its title. Then we would nod our heads and acclaim the members of the Committee, because no one is really interested in whom a party with some resolution proposes. Unfortunately, we don't work in a normal parliament and let me explain it. I just didn't understand Mrs. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, who assured us about what she said about the country being round. So she read us what it says in the Law and the Rules of Procedure, and that's true, no one here has disputed. No one here has disputed that the Rules of Procedure says that in each committee, the ruling majority should have a majority and that the total number of MPs must correspond proportionally to the composition of the majority, or minority. This is where the math was mentioned. So that those who look at us don't get scared, that "big" math includes the first five grades of elementary school. As far as I know, decimal numbers are taught in the fifth grade, I guess we're all done, I guess, so that math is extremely elemental. The proportion of the majority and the minority here in Parliament is 13:12. It's divided by less than nine divided by eight, but it can't be different. The rules of the Rules of Procedure that in every committee, the ruling majority should have a majority, now I will not discuss. I can only build one parentheses, so to say that in many European countries, and those in the EU, that is not the case. Moreover, it is prescribed that there must be opposition in some important committees, e.g. in the Committee on Security Control or the Committee on Finance. But we only serve Europe as a mantra, to mention it 150 times a day, and as far as the rules of the game go, then we have our rules, which are much better suited to those Turkish times, so it will be as the Sultan says. However, the Turkish Empire was a serious state, and in it some solutions were very advanced, but unfortunately this is not currently happening in the country of Serbia. What's the conclusion? The conclusion is that on every committee, it has to be 9:8. This proportion will be greater in favour of the ruling majority than it is 13:12, but it can't be otherwise. That's what it says in our law and our rules of procedure. But then no committee can be different than 9:8. It can't be 11:6, as it is in the Committee on Agriculture, and it can't be 10:7, as it is in the Administrative Committee. And, right away, I don't know, because the material we got was made so you only have a list of names, so you can't detect them at all. I don't need to know anyone here, and I doubt anyone knows 250 MPs who belong to the party. He may know them in character, but he doesn't know their name and last name. Look what we got, look at the material. So we don't even know how many places this rule 9-8 has been broken, which, I repeat, according to the Law and Rules of Procedure can't be different. It can't be any different. If this is about the Administrative Committee, it's a pretty specific committee. In fact, all the other committees are more or less discussing some laws. The Management Board, as a rule, is not working. It is quite logical, you will admit, that the ruling majority will support legislative proposals and other government proposals, and the opposition will not, in principle. Sometimes they will, but they won't, as a rule. But in the Administrative Committee, if it works in accordance with regulations and in accordance with common sense, decisions shall be taken, minors, unanimously. In the former federal parliament, i.e. the Parliament of the State Community, at the time I was president of this parliament (I have witnesses here, ask Mr. Micunović, Mr. Bajatovic, Mr. Ružic, Mr. Todorovic, Mr. Tomislav Nikolic) 99% of the decisions of the Administrative Committee were taken unanimously. It never occurred to anyone to vote on certain notorious matters if the Administrative Board made some normal decisions. Let me just say one more thing. The truth is, the least we can say is that the boards in which the government does not have a majority do not meet at all or have not held a single session. I'm sitting on two committees, on the Education Committee, which I run, and on the Science Committee. The Board of Education states 7:7 plus one neutral. The board held 25 sessions and I didn't notice that he didn't want to give a quorum. A colleague of Zivanovic, who heads the Science Committee, held 29 sessions and never had a problem with the quorum. The opposition also gave the quorum, with Mr. Zivanovic headed. Therefore, it is a complete misinformation of the public. In order not to keep everything in the story, there's something else I have to say. To the side of the situation in which the current government has led us, the situation related to both the country's territorial integrity and the terrible economic situation, but there is another strategic problem, for me, worse and greater. That's what I've been talking about, and time, unfortunately, hasn't denied me. In Serbia, democratic fluids were seriously threatened, ten years after 2000. We are once again on the point that we must fight for the elemental democratic rights and I would like to be denied the future. And on this point, the easiest way to deny me, and this is my advice to the promoter, President of the Assembly of Ms. Slavica Djukić Dejanovic, is to withdraw this proposal from the procedure, to presently draw up a committee of representatives of all parties, which, as far as tomorrow, according to the Law, Rules of Procedure and common sense, can propose one solution and that in the first session, i.e. at a session that starts on Monday, let's extend the agenda to one point, and we'll vote this without discussion. Anything else you can, gentlemen, to quote one DS MP, it was his favorite saying in time – power can be conquered and held by swords, but it cannot be sat on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43968	Nine minutes and 40 seconds of MP time were used. National MP Vjerica Radeta has a word, followed by MP Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43969	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this morning we received these colorful books saying "The Rules Collection." Unfortunately, what should really be a set of regulations and stick to what it says here, you've already shown today that it's not like that, and obviously you've been giving money for nothing to reprove this. Neither the Law on the National Assembly nor the Rules of Procedure, which you have adopted with 126 buttons, since today, and today is the first day of the application of this Rules of Procedure, you do not apply. You have heard from colleagues who used to speak, from the president of the SRS parliamentary group, all details regarding the application of Article 23. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, but Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, who should be here and not now, I noticed, I listened carefully to my colleague Todorovic, spoke to the MP next to her, and she may not have heard what he had turned her attention to. And that is that, again, when it comes to the number of board members, we do not dispute, Serbian radicals, the fact that whoever has a majority in the Assembly should also have it on committees. But on the basis of that, such precise bill, you stole 11 seats from the SRS on the boards, and you in the U.S. have six seats on boards more. So it's not about us wanting to have a higher percentage than it belongs to us based on the number of mandates. No, the opposite of that. Let's just say it's a simple calculation mistake, and that's why we're starting to convince you, at least that's not the problem, to check it out. Here, we have paper, completely accurate, on each board, see if this math is correct. We claim it is. No more than that, as far as this part is concerned. Mrs. Kolundjia, you talked about how the committees don't work because the opposition MPs don't participate in the work of the board, etc. It's not a dispute, as far as the SRS is concerned, that we're never and will never give a quorum on either the tide or the boards. It's our legitimate right. Actually, it's the work of the opposition. But here is a flash question for you (I would ask Mrs. President, but he is not here) – why has he never organised a meeting of the Committee on Economic Reforms? Never. You have most of it. The board doesn't have a president. Never in two years, and we have a board, he hasn't been called. So it's not that the opposition won't or will, it's that you're doing absolutely arbitrary, arbitraryly, that you're not interested in regulations, that you're doing things according to your current situation. Since I am on the defence team of Vojislav Seselj, so I am well aware of the work of the UN tribunal, with these ad hoc changes, you remind me a lot of the amendments to the UN tribunal's Rules of Procedure and Evidence. You probably didn't expect this kind of debate here today, you were expecting - the agenda point and the board completion to a certain number of board members, but today this debate has shown a lot of clues. I must say that we Serbian radicals are extremely proud today. We showed the public to Serbia that we are the only political party in Serbia that is consistent and principled, which defends principles in the same way both when it is the government and when it is the opposition, which defends principles in the same way both when they are useful and when they are at the expense of the SRS. Unfortunately, no one else here today can boast of it. There's been a lot of talk about the Administrative Committee. If there were two years ago views on the Administrative Committee as they were heard here today, then the SRS would have 78 MPs, as far as we really belong, how much we won in the 11 May 2008 elections based on the pro-proliferation of the SRS political programme. But, no, there was no such thinking at the time, not only in the ruling coalition, but also in the part of the opposition parties, and therefore the SRS' mandates were stolen. We are today in principle pushing for a party to be returned to a mandate belonging to the party precisely because the party did not give a quorum when it was left without 22 MPs on the SRS Administrative Committee. Of course, we don't talk in code. It's about the DSS. So, we, the Serbian Radicals, are in principle fighting for both the application of the Rules of Procedure and the application of the Law and the Constitution and for the application of the principle of modern democracy, which we have fought for in this Parliament, which you, gentlemen of the ruling majority, are in violation of in the most harsh way possible. You violated, when you kidnapped us, as the largest opposition party, the right to the chairman of the Administrative Board, when you took our right to the chairman of the Defence and Security Committee. Why did you do that? Because you weren't ready to hear what we wanted to tell you. Now you're turning the story around that you're going to focus this Parliament's work on the committee's work and that's why it was important for you to put this on the agenda today. We know there's an obligation to fill these committees and, of course, we had nothing to do with it. You've brought the Rules of Procedure and the Law, and we've had a lot of objections to each other. But as long as some act is in force, we are truly legalists and we know that this act must be applied, no matter what we think of it, and we were saying what we thought of it during the debate when these acts were brought in. Today, at the beginning of this debate, Mrs Comic drew attention to the fact that, in line with the new rules of procedure, all parliamentary groups must write whether or not they are in favour of or against any proposal discussed and, behold, today, all the senselessness of such a provision has been shown. Who could have defined whether it was for or against at the beginning of this debate, if we were to discuss it for four hours and if we heard many new facts? Well, this debate was supposed to result in the definition of whether or not they would vote for this or that. Just today, the first day of applying this Rules of Procedure, so many absurd situations just confirms everything we said when we discussed this Rules of Procedure. There may be other reasons why committees are being discussed today. I'll inform you that the SRS parliamentary group submitted a proposal to the Health and Family Committee yesterday. In this proposal, we ask, on the basis of a specific member of the Rules of Procedure, that the Committee on Health and Family take a position on the non-professional and unethical behaviour of VMA Commissioner Miodrag Jeftic in preventing Prof. Vojislav Seselj from providing professional medical assistance. Of course, in the light of this proposal, we have detailed how this Mr Jeftic has shown his unethicalness, that he did not allow a colleague with VMA to give an opinion on what is happening to the health situation of Vojislav Seselj today in The Hague tribunal. Then word came out in one agency, false, the Ministry of Defense, which can be freely called the'ministration of lies', that the SRS did not act in accordance with some of their obligations, so it turned out in writing, as we reportedly did a year or two ago, which is an absolute lie, because the SRS and Vojislav Seselj never spoke to, nor, to such authorities and state bodies as they are in power today. But that's why we want the Committee to discuss this and see what the response of members of the Committee who are not members of the SRS will be. I purposely mentioned this, to draw attention to fellow Members of the Parliament who are members of this committee, so that no "administrative committee" happens again. So, look, when you discuss this, you're principled and you don't have to bend your head and get out of the O.R. like today, when we remind you that you weren't principled two years ago, when it comes to the work of the Administrative Board and the withdrawal of the mandate of the SRS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43970	11 minutes of MP time was used. The word has a National MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, available for nine minutes and 25 seconds, followed by MP Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43971	The esteemed chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, today we have spent almost all afternoon trying to point to the flagrant violation of the Rules of Procedure, the terror of the ruling majority and its flagrant indiscriminateness. All of this can be reduced to one sentence, which is – avoiding the proponents of what we are discussing today to admit that the king is naked. We were convinced here that article 23. The Rules of Procedure have not been broken, that Article 28. The Law on the National Assembly has not been broken, that the opposition knowingly obstructed the work of the board, and all these are notable lies, and I would like someone to convince me that I am wrong. The problem is in proportion 9:8, or 10:7. The ruling majority of the proportions that satisfy Article 23 do not correspond. They're consistent with the 10-7 ratio. This is why this debate in the congregation is a waste of time. Instead of focusing on the right topics and the right things that burden this country, we are dealing with something that is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, something called the Administrative Committee, and all because the ruling coalition cannot agree within its ranks and find an adequate solution. Of course, Article 23 has been violated and of course proportion 9:8 satisfies both the first and second position of this member. Because the second position requires a majority of the committees held by the assembly majority in the parliament itself, and the first member seeks an adequate proportion of the corresponding representation of the parties in Parliament. The proportion of 9:8 satisfys these conditions. That doesn't match the ruling majority. The ruling majority therefore resorts to terror, knowingly violating the Rules of Procedure. It's one of the lies that were made today. It is also false that the opposition knowingly obstructed the assembly committees. Of course that's not true. Only the Legislative Committee had a series of sessions (I am a member of that committee) because the LDP, as a party of the opposition, gave the quorum. The fact that you, colleagues from the ruling coalition, are incapable of providing the quorum in the committees in which you have most of you, does not justify the kind of procedure that we met today. You can look at the stenograms from the Legislative Committee, which contribute to what I said, or justify the fact that I am absolutely right with my claims. From what we've heard today, I could give you a shorter summary, which concerns many of the government's actions in our country. For that, the word "extreme" is "extreme." The real word is "indignant." So many of the government’s actions in our country have humiliated the National Assembly. Do you think that the purpose of parliamentary terrorism is the majority over the minority and the neglect of all the qualities of the parliamentary tradition, which this state and how it has? I can understand the insolence of the ruling majority in the service of interest. It's not moral, but it's useful. But I really can't understand the moves that defy logic. We met with such moves today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43972	Four minutes and 30 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43973	The President-in-Office, since I am both directly appointed and as representative of the parliamentary majority's largest group accused very uglyly, basically very unargumented, I just want to say the following. It does not stand for the fact that the ZES parliamentary group has more than it belongs to the Committee so far. According to the percentage of representation, the parliamentary group should have 150 seats on boards and has 145. The truth is, too, that some opposition parties have more than their percentage representation in Parliament, so LDP has two more. I would also like to remind myself that at the very beginning of this term, we have always met the need of some parliamentary group that in some committee, which they considered important to be represented even though they could not get their representative by proportions, and have allowed MP groups interested in the work of some committees to have their own representative regardless of the strict proportions. So today calling for respect of strictly strict proportions means ignoring what we had as a principle at the very beginning. Why is the Administrative Board drawn up this way? Due to the simple fact that a single parliamentary group does not have a representative on the Administrative Committee. The Administrative Committee discusses matters concerning all parliamentary groups and all MPs, and there is a logic that all parliamentary groups have a representative. When it came down to who has a representative and who has to give a representative to the Administrative Committee later, we had a situation in which the ZES has 5.09 and has four representatives, the first one is the SRS by 3.47, and that's why it's divided in this way. So it was simply seen in order that the parliamentary group, according to Parliament's representation, gives a candidate.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43974	Two minutes. Thank you. Replication time has been used. National MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43975	I want to use the right to replicate, because these thesises, which are now presented, do not stand. Simply, I will call again for my previous exposure – defiance of logic. In this presentation, we did not get an answer as to why the Administrative Committee had not met for six months and many more questions. I'd add that to Article 23. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia contain an imperative standard. The Impaired Standard must be respected, otherwise, it is knowingly in breach of the Rules of Procedure. This is not about mandates and the number of LDP seats in committees, it's not about the subject. The theme is that the ruling coalition is trying to impose its interests on the occult actions. Once again, Article 23 contains an imperative legal standard. If it is not respected, it is a flagrant violation of the Rules of Procedure, it is a flagrant violation of the Law on the National Assembly. And, please, don't use legal ignorance to take advantage of the possibilities given to you by the fact that you are the ruling majority. Don't use legal ignorance for political purposes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43976	The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji has the right to replicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43977	I could also invite you not to abuse your legal knowledge. Because when we once violated this imperial norm by allowing LDP to have more representatives on the committees she was interested in, you were not so firm in respect of the imperial legal norm, and then you felt that it was part of the political life that made this work of Parliament normal. I also think it makes this Parliament's work normal, but I'd like to, if only an imperative legal standard is a criterion, then that goes for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43978	National MP Nebojsa Rangelovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43979	Of course, imperative legal standards should apply to everyone, including LDP. That's what we stand for, and that's what we insist on. The norm of such content did not contain the previous Rules of Procedure. I repeat, we insist that imperial legal standards be applied as foreseen by the Rules of Procedure. Everything else is a violation of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43980	The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43981	I would just like to remind myself that the previous Rules of Procedure also had the same legal norm, that the membership of committees determines the relative representation of political parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43982	The word has the People's MP Zoran Nikolic. There are 14 minutes and 20 seconds available to the parliamentary group. After him, the word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43983	The spring session of Parliament ended with a session and a resolution that in essence, by its content and by its consequences, humiliated this parliament deeply. The autumn session begins, in fact, with a proposal for this law and as a consequence of this proposal, we have another further humiliation of Parliament. Behind that, apparently, stands the will of the DS. Gentlemen and gentlemen of the DS, you are registered in the register of political parties, and in a formal legal sense no one can dispute you, but in a political and democratic sense you are writing out from the ranks of democratic parties. But not only the democratic parties, but also the state-run parties, which you have proven in these past two months, when this parliament, unfortunately, has not taken place. You, as the head of the parliamentary group, Mrs. Kolundzija, have brought here as an argument that this is how you turn the assembly committees into the fact that opposition members of different committees are obstructing the work of the board by not coming to the sessions. You haven't said a single example. I trust Professor Shami that the Board of Education did not have any problems in its 25 sessions and no obstruction. I also believe my LDP colleagues who say that in the board where he is a member, that is the Legislative Committee, there was also no obstruction. The Science Committee, also listed here, had no problems with obstruction. Then what was the problem with the opposition obstructing his work? Otherwise, even if the opposition did, it is a legitimate way of fighting the opposition against power. So, this thesis, which you presented as an argument, is, in the best possible way, disproved by opposition MPs in a subsequent discussion. But they're absolutely wrong. There is one exception, and it gives you the right to talk about the obstruction of the board, which is the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, whose work, behold, has been obstructed by the ruling coalition for more than a year. The parliament experienced this shame that two years of debate on Kosovo and Metohija in parliament. As it was debated in July and in what atmosphere and what conclusions were made, it was better that we didn't even discuss it then. And all the time, DS MPs and ruling coalitions have not come to the meetings of the KIM Committee just knowing, because such a signal has been given to them, as the fraud is being made to our citizens and our country by the ruling coalition, or by the DS, or by the President of the Republic of Tadic, who is obviously both the President of the Republic and the President of your "non-democratic party" and the President of Parliament and the Prime Minister. I'm honestly worried, since he's the only one going to the oven, that maybe he doesn't want another call, instead of Patriarch Irine. Anything is possible, because the hunger for power is obvious. When the hunger is so great, then the eyes go blind over the facts that come to you here. You can't deny here the fact that the relationship on the boards, numbering 17, should be 9:8. What's it got to be 10:7 for on the Management Board? Well, because of the mandate, i.e. the procedure that was launched for one MP to take office and because two representatives of the G17 party want to vote in accordance with the law to take the mandate. So, who has obstructed the work of the Administrative Board in the last six months? They're not representatives of the opposition, they're representatives of the government. Your MPs, the DS MPs, who found different excuses so they wouldn't come to the sessions, and they weren't allowed to put it on the agenda. It's a fact and you can't deny it with any arguments. This is all done in order to add two other members of the ruling coalition, one from your party and, as collateral damage, the PUPS representative. In this way you want to obtain the conditions of the Administrative Committee to make a decision that you obviously care very much about, and that is not to say that the term of office is not to be taken. But do you know what that has to do with? This is not so important (but of course it is important) what follows, which you as a majority take the role of owning all the mandates in this Parliament, based on the mere majority and abuse and the majority and the numerous conditions in the Administrative Committee. When that happens, then Parliamentarianism has nothing to do with it. Then such a parliamentary democracy cannot be called parliamentary democracy, but this system can be called the dictatorship and terror of the majority, which we are experiencing in this parliament. There is another very serious intention for you, and I want to say it here because of the citizens of Serbia. You set up this majority in the Administrative Committee in relation to 10:7 for one other matter, and that is your intention that, after 20 years of direct transfers, the National Assembly's session by decision of the Administrative Committee, in the near future, the abolished transfers of the National Assembly. They were alive, and they saw it. It is another contribution by the DS to the development of democracy in Serbia. This is exactly what you tried in 2003, when you took 43 seats from the DSS. The haughtiness you then demonstrated, when it seemed to you that with most of you you could do whatever it occurred to you, when this parliament had 304 MPs on the payroll (which is probably a unique case for Parliament, which counts 250 MPs in a certain period of time, paying 304 people as MPs), the mistake you made then, you paid in elections and lost power. Then comes the period when the DSS assumes responsibility for the assembly majority and for Parliament's work. The principle is then established that MPs from opposition parties, such as the Security Committee, such as the Finance Committee, are chaired in the relevant committees. In a few cases, the majority of the committees even had opposition. And then it worked the way it should function in an institution called the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You returned to power in 2008, promising citizens everything and everything. Pledging them 400,000 jobs, promising to enter Europe quickly, promising to preserve Kosovo and Metohija. We knew you were lying, and we knew you were telling the truth, and we know that you're cheating on the people today. That's why we are now in a situation where we no longer have information programs on TV, but we have a mere propaganda behind which your party, which is driving this people crazy, which deceives this people, which represents that the talks with KiM do not mean the recognition of KIM. Ask every diplomat and every friend who will allegedly mediate in these talks whether the status is disputed. It's not. Serbia accepts the talks by accepting the independence of KIM and this is due to the humiliation of the assembly we had in July. You are still preparing to further humiliate Serbia, so you resent us for saying that Europe has an alternative. Well, are these European values? Is the establishment of terror, tyranny and dictatorship in this House a European value? It's not and it'll never be. The alternative is to return to the policy that existed before 2008 and the atmosphere that we had in Parliament at the time. But there's a very strange thing going on, that just those parties that took part in building that atmosphere are certainly more positive and positive than they are today, the fins of decomposing such an atmosphere. Now, that's what it says about the kept promises you made to the citizens in 2008. If you have made a promise to the citizens that this Parliament will to this extent humiliate the question of its functioning, because we have one man who decides absolutely everything, then I don't think the citizens would give you that much trust, but I am sure that in the next election, which I urge to discuss as soon as possible, in the interests of the citizens and the state, you will certainly not get that support. So it is necessary to return to the period when we agreed on the functioning of this Parliament, because your own proposal, Madam President of Parliament, is challenged by the opposition's failure to participate in this proposal. The opposition parties did not give representatives to supplement these bodies. We see that "New Serbia" has withdrawn the proposal to appoint additional members during the debate. Then what are you doing it for? For yourself? Then I congratulate you on that, then you don't really need the opposition. Then rule the way you want to rule. The final court on your rule will tell citizens in the elections, which will eventually, if not soon, be quite certain in a year and a few days. And I am convinced that after these elections, although you think otherwise, the people will speak, just as they said in 2000, and shake off all those who, in this way, demeaning Parliament, humiliate their own citizens, humiliate them, the consciousness of citizens, and in the last two months since you entered this vicious game of recognition of Kosovo's independence and Metohija, there has been a share in buying citizens' consciences. That's why I invite you to withdraw this proposal. Do not play with Parliament and do not bear for all future times a stamp that as no one has ever done in the last ten years, you have so harshly crossed the will of citizens and destroyed parliamentary democracy in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43984	The word is proposed, National Assembly President Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, and Nada Kolundžija, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43985	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you are well aware of the instruments that can be used and applied in Parliament on all proposals, even on this proposal. It was quite possible to respond parliamentaryly to the amendments. Unfortunately, there were no amendments. Yesterday, there were certain dilemmas and reserves on the deal with the heads of parliament's groups and other members of the College, but apparently, the emotional charge of the contents of today's speakers was not missing and that he was not essentially critical that any will had been broken, but in a tendency to send certain messages of dissatisfaction. I quite understand that, MPs have the right to do so, but citizens must know that the instrument that is absolutely available to all MPs is not used, and these are amendments, on which the Assembly can be declared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43986	The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43987	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, about these conspiracy theories and what anyone had as a dark idea, I really don't want to talk about, it's the specialty of some others. Our intention, when we vote for this decision, is indeed that, by voting to fill the board members, we respect the Rules of Procedure that we adopted, on the one hand, and on the other hand, to allow the committees to work effectively. And that's all we wanted. The fact is that in a total number of committee members, the principle of representation is respected in relation to parliamentary groups. Maybe someone can say there's one more, two more or one less, but there's a relative representation respected, and nobody can really argue that. So talking about how any violence was committed in this way is really a lack of arguments, referring to what papers and evidence are. In particular, the DSS has one member more than it would have belonged to him by some proportions, and it wasn't absolutely controversial, nor was it ever a topic for us. I don't think that can be the subject. If someone thinks that an impeccable percentage representation can be determined and that this is the most important thing in Parliament's work, then we do not understand each other well enough. So each parliamentary group is represented on all committees, and on these committees it can fully express its and its political group's views, stand up for them and fight for them.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43988	National MPs Zoran Shami and Aleksandar Martinovic have been reported. Injury of the Rules of Procedure? You have no right to a replica. [[Zoran Shami: I have the right to replica.]] Just a minute. [[Zoran Shami: I have the right to replica because...]] You're looking for a replica to present Hope Kolundzija's national message? Yeah. All right. First Alexander Martinovic, a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and then you will be entitled to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43989	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, as there has been a heated debate for several hours on whether this proposal is in line with the Rules of Procedure or not, and you said for a moment that the opposition could have submitted an amendment to this proposal for a decision, I must tell you that you are wrong and that the Rules of Procedure, which you adopted at the end of July, make it impossible to submit an amendment to this proposal. If that were the case, you can see from Article 161: "Amendment is a proposal to amend and supplement the bill". This isn't the law. And now the question arises how an unsatisfactory opposition can intervene to bring the motion for a decision in line with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This is an intervention that only speaks about the extent to which the debate, which is attended by representatives of the ruling coalition, is largely unthinked by the very fact that the motion for a decision is contrary to the Rules of Procedure. Then you from one breach of the Rules of Procedure jump into another and then enter into one chain of damage to the Rules of Procedure and then the question arises what is the meaning of what Parliament is doing today. There is no point, except that Serbia's public opinion is likely to spin, to completely distract itself from the really huge problems that the state of Serbia has, and then, behold, let the people all day watch whether it is the right authority or opposition when it comes to membership on boards. It is not a problem either Kosovo and Metohija, unemployment, or social misery, or that it is clinking with weapons in the Rasko area. Nothing's a problem, the problem is whether or not there's been an end-to-end proportion in committees. No, and you know it's not, but then I don't know why you're having this debate. Then shut up, let the opposition say what it has and today you'll probably vote it out.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43990	Two minutes. Thank you. There is no violation of any of the rules of the Rules of Procedure and I refer you to reading Article 193. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, fully convinced that you know that this member exists: "The procedure for the adoption of rules of procedure and other general acts shall be followed accordingly by the provisions of this Rules of Procedure on the procedure for the adoption of the law, unless otherwise specified by these Rules of Procedure. "So, the observation and the fact that the amendments could have been submitted but they did not, is in line with the Rules of Procedure and is correct. MP Zoran Shami, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43991	It is not a matter of whether they could or couldn't, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, to be submitted, but you just have to explain to me what I have to endure. You gave us a decision on the list of names and now I should, say, say - I don't like Mr. Milorad Buha being on the Finance Committee, but I think it should be Mr. Martinovic. You mean that kind of amendment? I don't see what amendment I can change the essence of this decision. None. That's one thing. Secondly, Mrs. Kolundjia came out, unfortunately, she did need five classes of elementary school, but please provide precise information here. The Democratic Party of Serbia currently has 41 deputies on board, after all these changes it should be 45, and it has received three, that means 44. So, one less, not one more, as Mrs. Kolundjia says. It does not matter whether one or more is more or less, it is important that no committee should have a relationship different than 9:8 because it violates the relevant member of the Rules of Procedure, or the Law on the National Assembly. That's what I was talking about. And don't be like a cat around a hot oatmeal and constantly pushing around some misinformation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43992	The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop Lazic, and after that, MP Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43993	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, obviously today we are attending a very bile debate on the seemingly benign subject, but it is only proof that we, as representatives of the people, feel all the bile that exists in our people and, of course, we are also passing it here to Parliament. I think that today everyone expected that, after the summer break, we were talking about much more important topics, which, when we say so, offend our citizens, but Parliament, while respecting the amendments to the Rules of Procedure, deals with and fills the number of members in the committees in charge. Of course, the way it was done is proof that democracy is being suspended on this occasion. We should know, at least those of us who do business, to put it this way, and professionally by policy, that power is a great temptation, that only exceptional people resist the temptation of power, and that even the best ideas, if they follow fanatically, as the parliamentary majority follows them by saying that the EU has no alternative, and many others, can eventually become, I may also use the hard word, but criminally. That's political theory. This is not my thought, but the thought of those who deal with the political system, and you know that Vojislav Seselj, who taught the course at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, is the biggest expert on the political system. As the opposition exists in every multi-party system, it is normal and expected to establish dialogue between the parliamentary majority and the opposition. If the parliamentary majority is unable to do so, then democracy falls into autocracy. How democracy is the form of a political regime, as we have defined ourselves for this democracy, how we all participate in these multi-party parliamentary elections, and here we should represent the will of the people, of course we are interested and make our contribution through the working bodies to the voice of the people. This is where the principle breaks. I remember in 2000, when I went into the narrow nest of DOS to discuss how many SRS were then assigned seats in various working bodies, our request was not accepted and we said – well, you can't respect the principle, we stand only for the principle (we were 23 then), we won't even participate in these working bodies. Now, 10 years after that, after changing the Rules of Procedure several times, all with the reason that Parliament would be effective, to bring these European laws forward as quickly as possible, to bring our laws into line with the European one, we have less and less opportunity to express the will of the citizens and to participate in Parliament's work and this is not a talkative room, which should be, but is a classroom. We are seriously injured because of this, and believe me, the citizens of Serbia. And it's not good that this size of bile was here today in Parliament, because don't forget, that bile can spill out of this building, and that wouldn't work. The more you tighten us, humiliate us, and threaten us, the more dissatisfaction we, as representatives of the people, and the greater the people themselves, and at one point they will escalate. And maybe that's what someone wants. We, as an opposition, will say again -- an opposition whose authority should not be the sole goal just for the sake of power, but in order to change something better (so it is normal to fight for power, but not for power), we will have to show our disdain and, of course, mobilise the forces that have to change that. Instead of going forward, we're going back. Here, as far as I can see and how much I'm reading, there is now one of the conditions for you to join the EU -- a gay parade, ahead of which you have to step. And how far will that go? We're interested in the work of these committees here's why. That's where I want to oppose Mrs. Nadia Kolundjia, who really wants to lead the public astray. And so far, the majority of the committees have represented MPs. There was no committee where the opposition had most. The committees were always able to work very effectively if the security deputies were the parliamentary majority. We who are in opposition can take part in the work, and we may not take it. We usually did, but we don't want to do the quorum for you. It's our job to distract you from making the wrong decisions, because we think that what you're doing is mostly wrong. We're interested in the work of several committees, especially those who are at this point seem to be most important to us. For two years, you have failed to establish a Committee on Kosovo and Metohija. Only one constitutive session was held and none thereafter. I'm sorry, it's the Board of Representatives and Appeals. And the kim committee should be doing what now? To see if Boris Tadic guards the Constitution as you who chair the National Assembly keep this Rules of Procedure. It's always the procedure that's most important to you, the essence is somewhere on the side. So who should be the first to deal with what was done in the UN General Assembly, the wrong foreign policy, who sent a text message saying that it should agree to such a humiliating position by Serbia in the UN? Boris Tadic. Is he authorized by anyone, by the Constitution, to behave like that? Of course not. And he doesn't lack hair from his head. And what does that show? What some MPs have already said - let's crown it, so that we know that we have the Emperor and that we have nothing to ask ourselves, that we don't play democracy here. Watch out, the MP goes to the Department of Defense (that's the authority of the administration, right? ..to file an act on the office. It could've been on that act that said "Shutan's traitor," and he's got to hit the water stamp and take it. They say they get a warrant not to take any action. What if a citizen went to the Department of Defense or came here to the National Assembly and wanted to turn in an act at the office? There's a bunch of acts for the Board of Representatives and Appeals, which you don't care what the people think. This act, which we wanted to hand over to the Minister of Defence, is very important and refers to Director VMA, General Jeftic, who, in our opinion, and I assume in his presence will decide whether he is worthy to perform such a function and whether, as a doctor, he has violated the oath he has made, that he must provide assistance to everyone. Vojislav Seselj never asked for Mr Zoran Mijailovic, a doctor who works on VMA, to go and conduct a review, but was asked by The Hague tribunal, and he went there as a cardiologist. When he was asked to plead on his treatment, diagnosis, and proper treatment, he was forbidden. Why shouldn't Mr. Sutanovac take it when he's the one proposing to the Supreme Defence Council who's going to be VMA director? Mr. Tadic has received. There, in the Secretariat of the Presidency it was accepted. We'll see what happens. We'll see what our Health Committee says. But the Shooter doesn't, in the Army he can't. Then how can we not be interested in the work of such committees? We are very interested and we want it to be as God commands and how, after all, democratic principles command us to be represented only as many of us here. Of course our expectations aren't fulfilled, because we've been here to witness everything and everything. Taking the mandate years back and taking the mandate to the SRS, the participation of a political party in Serbia's parliamentary life, and yet the strongest opposition political parties, which did not go to the polls, say. What's this spin information? You think the people are crazy, they don't know anything. People don't ask themselves anything. You want the people to think that there's nothing to change in the election, that everything will be at the will of the big brother, that your mathematics by changing the electoral system, like this, by bribing, by scaring... That's what we had a chance to see, be careful. We remember what happened in Vranj, how it used to happen in the elections, what about the citizens, especially the poor. You can manipulate whatever you want. The media is no longer at all, completely uninterested in political events other than RTS's Dnevnik, which, of course, by order of the strongest political party in power, informs citizens as it suits them. Now, that can't go well, let me tell you. It can't, really, because citizens aren't blind after all, they feel a burden on their skin. They don't care what country and how many states they live in. It's important to them, too, to where their limits are. You can't have a nation without a state, you can't have a state without a people. They don't care what happens in Belgrade, but they don't care what happens in Novi Pazar. They want to see how we feel about whether we're gonna change something. What are we to change if the voice of the people is not heard? And that's the voice of the opposition, and that's part of the people... And that's a small difference between you and us. You were on the sawmill until you took these terms. Now it's breaking down on the board of directors, allegedly due to one term of office. It's not about one thing, it's about the whole West and various foreign intelligence services working with these people here in the country that was in charge of the SRS, because it's supposed to be just the SRS that's threatening the threat. If, by chance, the SRS continues to grow stronger, there will be a flood. How long will you people lie like that? Well, the people aren't crazy anymore. Everything we told you, "Don't do it like that," turns out we were right. I wish you'd listened to us. We're not happy that we were right at all, but we had to warn you. And now we have warned you that the Resolution on Srebrenica is a prelude to Kosovo's loss, because the people who declare themselves genocide cannot expect anything from the UN. And so it was. I don't want to take any more time away from my colleagues or give any lectures, but this was a reason to talk about that basic, which is to build a democratic society in which to hear the voice of the people and it has to be designed through all institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43994	14 minutes and 30 seconds of MP time have been used. I'm setting a break. The work continues at 4:00 p.m., issues of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The session will be held between 16:00 and 19.00 hours, and after the parliamentary questions we will continue the debate in a single search and will be given by MP Zoran Ostojic, followed by Aleksandar Martinovic. Following the end of the debate in a single search, a voter's Day will be set. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43995	Dear People's MPs, since today is the last Thursday of the month, in accordance with Article 205(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we approach the question of MPs in time from 16:00 to 19.00. Before we move on to asking parliamentary questions, let me remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly relating to the way MPs are asked. The MP shall have the right to ask a parliamentary question to the individual Minister or Government under their jurisdiction, in accordance with Article 204(1). Rules of Procedure. The parliamentary question must be clearly formulated, in accordance with the same member, and the presentation of a MP asking the question cannot last longer than three minutes. So this has changed compared to the previous Rules of Procedure, the exposure cannot last longer than three minutes. The President of the National Assembly will warn the MP who asks a parliamentary question if the question is not asked in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, or if it is not addressed to the competent authority. This is in accordance with Article 204(6). Rules of Procedure. The Government's oral question, i.e. the minister, must be answered orally immediately. If a specific preparation is required to respond, they shall immediately explain this to the MP and deliver the reply in writing within eight days of the date on which the question is asked. This is regulated by Article 206(1). Also, according to Article 207. The Rules of Procedure, following an answer to the parliamentary question, the MP who asked the question has the right to comment, for a maximum period of three minutes, on the answer to his question or on the additional question. Upon receipt of an answer to the additional question, the MP shall have the right to declare a response of no more than two minutes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia shall be applied accordingly during the duration of asking questions and answering, by not allowing replication and apportionment of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, as provided for in Article 216. Rules of Procedure. Accordingly, I ask the MPs who have not filed a request to ask questions to do so. At the same time, I remind you that the order for asking questions will be determined according to the practice so far, so that, in turn, MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group will receive a word from each other, and then MPs from the least to the largest group of MPs. We're moving on to the position of the sender's question word has a folk MP... According to the Rules of Procedure? Mr. Andric, I've just read that no indication of any breach of the Rules of Procedure is allowed, nor is there any replica in this section. But, as you know, we haven't finished today's session, so we'll continue after 19.00 hours, and then I'll give you my word. (Ivan Andric: The procedure has been injured. You broke procedure. Is it all filled out in article 205? Did the government shrink? Procedure? We can't do this part. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43996	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, honourable members of the government, I would ask the Prime Minister, since I have not received an answer so far – when will one of the three border crossings, established and approved by the Government of the State Community be opened in April 2005? Three border crossings were provided on the territory of Presevo municipality and one on the territory of the municipality of Trgovište. A border crossing has already been opened at the Shop. In Presevo we have the busiest route, where the road was reconstructed with the help of the American Development Agency and the Coordination Body, and connects all the largest settlements of Presevo and Bujanovac with neighbouring Kumanov and Lipkov. Villages of up to 5,000 inhabitants, two kilometers from one border and another, have been cut down for more than two decades and the necessity of opening the border crossing is obvious. I ask the question – what are the reasons that prevent the government from making its decisions after six years? I would also ask Minister Mrkonjic – when will the highway Presevo-Levosoje end and we have a normal communication situation? It's still Corridor 10, and the situation on the ground in that section, on that section, is absolutely not normal. I've been asking the question for the third time a year. It was a promise that it would be in July, so the Deputy Prime Minister postponed the deadline until August, now it's September, and I don't see that we're near the realization of a goal that was set two decades ago. It has been started three times, and as you can see, this share cannot be completed, very important for the development of not only the Presevo and Bujanovac municipalities, but also beyond that area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43997	The word has Minister Milutin Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43998	I thank Mr. Riza Halimi. He's absolutely right. On January 1st, the highway will be completed from Presevo to Levosoje, which is 20km. The works have already started (he probably saw it today, I've now come from below) on the stop lane of the right August tape from the Vranje direction towards Presevo. The problem was expropriation and, in part, problems related to the expansion of the Presevo pump, which we still haven't reached a final deal with NIS, but I give my word that on January 1st, the 20km will be over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u43999	Thank you. Would you like to comment on Mr. Halimi? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u44000	I hope that this will finally happen, and I still insist on the issue of the border crossing, one of three, which is the most important priority and is absolutely vital to this municipality and the neighbouring municipalities, as well as to all settlements and municipalities on the other side of the border. I don't think the 2005 decision is unwarranted. We had very difficult, tragic situations, when people were losing their lives on those stocks because of things that weren't done. So I insist that, if not now, orally, at least shortly in writing, we get an answer that is the fate of at least one of those three border crossings and when it will happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u44001	Mr. Grouchy, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u44002	Mr. Halimi is right again and I thank him. It is known that a team of people dealing only with the border crossings of the Republic of Serbia has finally been formed. One of the commission's first tasks is to open one of those three crossings down there. That's why we've been working this time that Riza's been talking about. I'm sure it'll be over by the end of this year. It's not my portfolio, but I'm in the middle of what Mr. Halimi is talking about, and we're going to give it to him in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u44003	National MP Miroslav Markicevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u44004	Dear Presidents, the respected citizens of Serbia who are watching this transfer, on behalf of the NS Parliament Club, and I believe many citizens of Serbia, I have one question for Mr Mirko Cvetkovic, Prime Minister. I apologize, Mr. President, for having to quote Article 123. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It is about the authority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and one says: "The government determines and leads politics". Citing this member of the Constitution, Mr. President, I believe that in a brief presentation you can present the results of the foreign policy that you have conducted so far under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and say what are the strategic foreign policy directions that you and your ministers intend to lead in the coming period, and as far as the most recent, most sensitive interests of Serbian citizens are concerned. Secondly, I would like you to explain (I believe that this is more for the media) what the government's telephone session is about to decide on such a large and historic document as the resolution submitted by the state of Serbia to the UN General Assembly. Where were the ministers, as you were told, were their entire resolution quoted, spoken on the phone before they agreed to the resolution? I say that as a folk MP who participated on July 26th honestly and honestly here in the discussion on this issue and supported the government and the president, not looking at party interests, but looking at the real interests of Serbian citizens. In return, Serbian citizens and MPs have news that the government accepted the amended text of a resolution submitted by our state to the UN General Assembly at a telephone session. So, I'd like you to explain what that phone session looked like, and did you, I apologize for telling you, were you aware of the historic moment that such a single decision was made at the phone session? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u44005	Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic, Prime Minister, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u44006	Dear Members of the People, first I would like to welcome you all and wish you successful work in the new season. I hope we all came with one new energy. Now I would like to address the MP specifically on the issues that have been given here. The first issue is about the basic foreign policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia. As you know, the foreign policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is primarily directed towards European integration and the desire for this country to move towards EU entry. In this context, enormous efforts have been made, on the one hand, and successes achieved, on the other hand. I am also taking advantage of the opportunity to thank the congregation personally and in general because it has been of great help to us. We ended up with excellent results last calendar year and received a report that has been the most positive since any Serbian government was ever formed. In this context, and as a result, we also got visa liberalisation, we submitted to the candidacy, we ratified the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and this year we continue to lead that policy. Of course, that's the basis of our foreign policy. In addition, our foreign policy does not ignore other significant partners with whom we want to be in good, even in partner relations. I'd like to mention these most significant countries, above all, the Russian Federation, the United States, China, etc. The government has had very intense activities on this plan. And I personally visited China and my deputy Mr. Dinkic is currently in China. We also have intense relations with the Russian Federation, the United States and so on. In addition to these countries, we do not want to ignore the question of "third world", so countries that used to belong to non-classified ones. In this context, we have very good relationships, which are on the rise. We are particularly talking about the economy and what comes to us as information is that there are markets far below that are being used. We still have a great reputation that we have from the former SFRY. These are briefly the elements of our foreign policy. As far as the government's telephone session is concerned, there is a Rules of Procedure that clearly defines how phone sessions are held. I could briefly tell you a few sentences about it. Of course, if you want, we can also deliver to you the Rules of Procedure, so you will see from it how not only telephone, but also other government activities take place. Therefore, phone sessions take place in such a way that prepared materials on voting points are distributed to all who need to vote. It is not simply a phone call to someone who is not here, but each of them had prior material, had the right and opportunity to read it and make certain comments, reactions, etc., and then access to the vote and count votes. Phone sessions are very often held with us for some things that are urgent, so it is not possible to call a regular session. There are times when certain points from regular sessions are removed because they were not in line. In the meantime, there is a consensus and on this basis, a telephone session is released so as not to wait for the next week.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u44007	Thank you. Mr. Markicevic, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u44008	Mr. President, please make sure that what I say next realizes that it's nothing personal. I apologize for saying one personal observation. You seem like a very correct and decent man to me, but I thought you shouldn't mention the word Kosovo, not to tell Metohija. That's what I asked you about, Mr. President. Is it possible that the resolution on Kosovo is adopted as an amended text, which the public did not know about, I believe that even now many do not know what it says there, by telephone session? If this is the way to bring it, why does it even take the government to ambush, as far as I think, Thursday at 13.00 hours (even so in the previous government)? Then we save the logs, and maybe some ministers would be more useful somewhere in the field. I mean it honestly. So they don't come to Belgrade from the white world or from Serbia. Let's just say, if Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic had stayed there, maybe he'd have done something else... I really think so, if that's the way to solve big decisions. Secondly, I want to ask you, since you may have accidentally or intentionally avoided the words of Kosovo and Metohija, and I think most citizens understood why I was asking about this phone session. When US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton arrives the other day, will you, as Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, tell her – KiM is Serbia, it is an integral part of Serbia, we will never stop talking about status? If we know that, here, promise to the citizens of Serbia, and I'll be grateful for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u44009	The word has a prime minister. Here you go, Mr. Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u44010	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I was just answering your question precisely. I don't think KiM is a matter of foreign policy, and that's why I didn't even mention it in the explanation of what the basic principles of foreign policy are. If you think KiM is some kind of territory that is independent and whose independence we have recognised, then it would be the basis to talk about it too. As for the transparents "Kosovo is Serbia", "Kosovo is the heart of Serbia", etc., they carry on the streets, and what this government will deal with is to achieve the goals of being an active player related to KIM and to find a solution that will be acceptable to all sides.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u44011	Mr Markicevic, you have two minutes to comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u44012	Mr. President, should you understand from this second part of your response that you and the Secretary of State, you or the Minister of Foreign Affairs or the President of the Republic are not going to talk about KIM? Is that what we need to figure out? I think I'm very clear. So, from what it comes out of this, because it's not a foreign policy topic, because it's just our theme and only we can talk about it, and obviously it's not, because the whole world is dealing with, and even the strongest forces, Kosovo and Metohija, I think you'll say, "Madam, if you're here to talk about KIM, it's not a foreign policy issue, so we'll talk about it when we're in the General Assembly or somewhere else, and here in Serbia we won't be able to do it. Of course you will talk, and you should talk to everyone who wonders in the world and, unfortunately, shake the world (that's my personal opinion), not tell us so. Turns out you're not going to talk to Hillary Clinton about Kim right now. Well, they're wondering now, that's what the most uninformed citizen knows. Whether we like it or not, that's a different story. In this context I asked you if you would tell her – yes, for us the status of KIM has never been solved? I didn't mean the banners. I don't want to talk to you, those who know me better know what KIM means to me in my heart and soul. I didn't mean the transparency, but for my best intentions, as I came and on July 26th, Mr. President, and here I voted not for the party interests but for the support of you and the Government and the President if there's anything to be done for that most sacred part of our territory, which we all believe, we feel, and we think so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u44013	Thank you. Mr. Cvetkovic, Prime Minister, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u44014	I'll be very brief. I didn't say we weren't gonna talk. On the contrary, I believe it will be one of the topics of the talks and we will fight, in the best interest of Serbia, for our views that are known. Thank you. (Special voices: the prime minister did not have the right to speak. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u44015	I'm sorry, I was wrong. I'm really sorry. Government members, ministers, can give an answer, but after a statement by MPs, which lasts for two minutes, whether he is satisfied with the answer, the minister no longer has the right to speak. It's my fault. The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u44016	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr Cvetkovic, when you appear here in the Assembly, then it becomes part of some collective therapy. You sit in your seat, and then we have to show up on this side and spend all that negative energy, frustrated because of the fact that otherwise there's no chance that we can talk to you seriously. Explaining, say, motives to write a book, Tony Blair said that long after leaving the post of prime minister he had arrhythmia or tachycardia every Wednesday at a time when lawmakers had asked him questions in parliament for years. He said it was frustrating for him not that he had to go to parliament, but that there was no room for dialogue there. I ask you, Mr Cvetkovic, will you still be the only Prime Minister in the normal world who does not want in a society that is burdened with both internal and external crisis to launch a dialogue that would lead us to an answer to the simple question – what is the interest of this country and how it is achieved, regardless of whether we are talking about Sandzak, Kosovo, economy, pensions, Parliament, government, or will we continue to push behind Boris Tadic's back, and those who want it and those who do not want it? We don't have a parliament, we saw it today. We don't have a government. We've known that for a long time. We have a president, who is both an MP and a prime minister. If that's an emergency, because someone has estimated that there is no potential for some different relationships, I guarantee you that someone is wrong. If that is the goal, then those who set such goals should learn the simple truth that in the 21st century, no one can monopolize society's right to talk and make decisions that have a crucial impact on its future. When will the government show up in Parliament and start talking to those who represent citizens about issues that are frustrating for society and which of the Government and ask us for effective answers? How much longer can he put up with the situation in Sandzak and does anyone in the government realize that what the police minister did, along with me, a month ago, will no longer be able to do either him or me or anyone else tomorrow? Does this government understand that it is she who should have an initiative in Kosovo's space and that you, as president, are the one who should be the talker of Kosovo Albanians, that it is the Minister of Telecommunications who needs to be solved, along with the director of Telecom, the problem of Telecom, that politics is not guided by everything being left to society from the corner? So, the simple question -- when are you going to come here that it's not the couch you've been sitting on and we're not in the position of those who need to spend negative energy by showing themselves frustrated?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u44017	The Prime Minister has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u44018	I'll be very brief. The government comes to Parliament in accordance with Parliament's rules of procedure. As the Government has its own rules of procedure, so does Parliament. As far as I know, we come here to answer questions, for that is what today and every last Thursday of the month is about, but there are so-called. Thematic sessions, where MPs themselves are able to choose topics and conversators. In that sense, I don't see what the problem is for you to choose which topic you consider necessary. We've always been here before. Let me remind you, it's a newspaper in the Rules of Procedure. Remember the previous governments, how much they came, what composition and how much time they gave to Parliament, and you will see that it is one step forward. I'm not saying that we have achieved the ideal of democracy, nor am I satisfied with this. Of course, every day will get better and better, but I certainly think there's enough opportunity to start any topic and talk about it. If, on the other hand, you are talking about a dialogue with the general public, I can say that the Government is leading to continuity of dialogues with various institutions and groups concerning the problems that exist and certain solutions are being found from these dialogues and certain activities are being taken. So we have two types of dialogue. One, which is independent of Parliament, and that part of the dialogue is practically conducted on the principles of relations between stakeholders in the government itself and, of course, the dialogue in Parliament. I think that's what you were actually thinking. Here, I suggest you delegate for the following month the subject you consider to be your most significant and the Government will be very pleased to come and open a debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u44019	Thank you. Mr. Jovanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u44020	Mr. Cvetkovic, and I suggest that you resign and that your ruling majority choose me as Prime Minister, then Parliament will be given the government leading the country. Because in normal democracies, the government runs the country, and it asks parliament for support for something. Don't suggest we invite you here in a month and we suggest what we talk about. It's your duty, Mr. Cvetkovic. This country wanders from today to tomorrow in every segment of its life. Our economy is burdened by problems, our social relations are terribly burdened by mutual misunderstandings. We have a terrible problem, as a people, Mr. Cvetkovic. Nobody understands us, we don't have partners, we mess up, we make unnecessary mistakes. That's where I think of your minister, Chiplic. Do not let us write you a letter that you come to the congregation once a month. Obama held 3,000 meetings, he and his administration, before signing the American recovery program. Angela Merkel, as Chancellor, had ten sessions to deal exclusively with the government's crisis overcoming program. Is the government a team or not a team? We want to help you. We don't see any interest in creating even greater chaos. But we think it's fair to have an answer -- we don't know what we're going to do, we don't know how to solve some problems, we ask citizens to support that policy that offers a solution to those problems. When will the government show up with a Kosovo platform? We lost a month. We didn't win in Brussels, we were defeated in Brussels, but we survived that defeat and that's what's good. We're not taking our chances completely, we're relativating what happened in August. When did the government decide to submit the resolution? Who in the government made that decision? Who was responsible for the wrong assessment? What platform are we going to see in front of Kosovo Albanians? When are we gonna solve the Sandzak problem? When will the Ministry of Human Rights correct his mistake? When will the government realize that it is she who should dictate the pace, that it must not depend on the will of one mufti or any individual, but that the Government must put problems on the table and offer adequate solutions for them? If we are talking about economics, what are the effects of an agreement that the government has come here to Parliament asking for support? We're talking about an agreement with Russia. We're paying for the most expensive gas. We owed the country 350m euros at the beginning of the year for a loan spent on energy infrastructure owned by the Russian state. The ruling majority has made a decision that Serbia is unable to take care of its energy interests better than Russia's. That's why today we have the most invaluable fuel and the most expensive gas in the region. How long will that be? Who takes responsibility for that? House budgets will be breached by over a thousand euros. If it costs anything, it has to be paid. If it costs a lot and we don't have any money, we have to work anymore. Let's put those cards on the table. Yesterday we heard the Minister for the National Investment Plan, which says - no money; we have ideas, but we have no money. How do we proceed? Shall we ignore that? Don't expect us to call you once a month.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u44021	Time. Here you go, Mr. Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u44022	I think you were completely honest when you ran for Prime Minister. In that context, I believe you're young, and at some point you might come to that place. I think it's good to have a clear expression of ambition. As for this series of questions you've asked, I don't know which one of them to answer, because the answer would turn into a monologue. But let's just say, I keep on this last one, since it's given in some negative context about a Russian arrangement. First of all, I would like to say that the Russian arrangement was made on the basis of an interstate agreement confirmed by the National Assembly and that the Government implemented it in everything, as established in the Assembly. On the other hand, of course, there are different perceptions about whether something expensive, cheap, etc. As far as gas is concerned, I have to say that we pay the world's price for gas, that's the price everyone pays, and plus we pay for the transport, which I have information that something is more expensive. Perhaps the Minister of Energy could say something more and more detailed about it. What is the point is that the current gas supply is not in function of the arrangement that we are talking about, and what is possibly going to be the gas connection that will result from this arrangement only after the realisation of the South Stream and then we will be able to talk about whether we have an adequate price of gas or not. Countries in the environment do not have a lower price of gas, as is often said. They have some, but mostly those who have a lower price have their own production. Croatia, for example, produces 60 per cent of gas from its own sources and then, of course, it is able to use that resource. It is similar with Romania, which also has significant production. When it comes to Serbia, the production of our local gas is below 10%. Its quality is bad and it cannot be used without mixing with Russian gas and, as a result, we have the price of gas as it is. She is a stockbroker. Of course, we're talking and we're looking for the possibility of her being lower. In any case, its connection to the NIS sales arrangement and the construction of South and gas storage is not correct because the whole gas supply arrangement has already been reached. Since you've asked a whole series of questions, I hope one of the MPs will return to one of them, and then I'll give answers to those as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u44023	Thank you. Here, you have two more minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u44024	Mr. Cvetkovic, I wouldn't want to wait for anyone else to ask a question I've already asked. I think it's a waste of time. You have the full freedom to answer every question I've asked. Nothing stands there as an obstacle to that path of statement, absolutely. And when we talk about Kosovo, and government policy towards Kosovo, and the responsibility someone needs to assume for unnecessary confrontation, about the poor Serbian people who suffer again down in Kosovo because of our incompetence, about 160 Thaci's apartments and two apartments of our government that were built over the past two years. We can talk about anything, but you're the ones who need to have an initiative. What I think we all need to do together is more than just fight each other. That's a clear plan, and you're not offering us that plan. We were talking about energy, that's one problem. We gave you the initiative for an extraordinary session and when there was a problem with the Kosovo resolution and when we had a problem in Sandzak and when the energy problem came up. There are materials here in Parliament on all of this, and the government has no such demands left. I'm just suggesting that any policy that ignored life, knowingly or unconsciously, eventually condemned itself to more than anyone else did. At this point, I think it's very important to tell people what the future of this country will look like and what a picture of us as politicians is. What is the position of this institution on all this? Where does she see her place? Where does the government see their place? Don't wait for others to ask those questions, then it doesn't make sense. You should talk about it without asking. Not all governments were like that. There was also a government whose president, when he comes here and talks, then he tells someone - go to sleep if you can't listen, and I'll finish my job. You know very well who I mean. Take responsibility for following your position. And every minister of yours follows that responsibility. The fact that they are not aware of it or do not want to be aware of it does not relieve them of their responsibilities. This country should lead...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u44025	Time. Thank you. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u44026	Dear Presidents, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers and People's MPs, my question concerns the Ministry of Social Affairs, Mr. Ljajic, who is not here. Anyway, I'm going to ask a question, so he's going to answer my question first chance he gets, or else he's going to answer my question. I want to ask a question on behalf of parents and associations that are faced with the issue of childcare with special needs. In fact, it is a parallel to what is aid for children with special needs who are in foster care in relation to children who receive it from other people’s care, actually helping parents who are biological and who care for their children with special needs. I have to admit that I haven't dealt with regulations, relationships and these categories more closely and differences in aid from the state to one and the other, but I will speak language and logic of interested parents and associations. One association is from Loznica and Banja Koviljaca, called "Faith". In their question, it is concluded that foster families receive more funds based on taking care of children with special needs than parents who take care of their children. It is known that the intensity of society and modern times is the inclusion and inclusion of these children in as natural a social environment as possible, and that is, above all, under number one, a family with biological parents. It is necessary to study or explain this question and then explain where this difference exists and whether there is a need for some equality in what the state's assistance is on these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u44027	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u44028	I appreciate the question, but I really don't know the answer. He's very specific and resolute, so this issue will be passed on to the resolute minister. I believe that he will understand what this is about, whether it's politics, error or whatever, so we will take appropriate action accordingly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u44029	Thank you. MP Zeljko Tomic has a word. He's not here. MP Zoran Mašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u44030	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Prime Minister and the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I was going to ask the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Agriculture, but since they are not here, then I ask Mr Cvetkovic, the Prime Minister, as still the most responsible man in the government, to answer, if at all possible. My questions concern, above all, the report we received from the government during this summer, which concerned spending on the 2010 budget, and the part relating to subsidies. According to the report, total spending of subsidies was about 52%, with some ministries spending above that. Thus, for example, the Ministry of Economy had an average cost of 54% subsidies, the Youth and Sports Ministry 49%, but the Ministry of Agriculture had a 41% subsidy spending, almost 11% less than the average budget spending in a subsidy-related position. We know well, and in particular agricultural producers, that largely the impact on this production has also been subsidising, and especially in relation to the overall difficult economic situation that is present in the country, the expectations of agricultural producers were, and so were the Members of the people who adopted that budget, that agriculture, as one of the major and strategic branches in our country, would receive or spend subsidies at least at the level and average of some other ministries. My question to you, Mr Cvetkovic, is – why has agriculture received only 41% of the budget in the past half of the year and how do you explain that these other resolutions and ministries have received these amounts that I have said? In the hope that you will give an answer, I'll ask more questions later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u44031	Here you go, Mr. Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u44032	Thank you. Dear People's MP, in response I would give information on the principles of budgeting and budget spending, especially when it comes to subsidy positions. The budget adopted in the National Assembly contains a figure intended to be spent over one year. This number, of course, breaks to odds. These are monthly quotas, which each user of the budget on whose division this figure is, can withdraw and spend. These quotas do not have to be ideally one twelve months per month, especially in branches that have seasonal oscillations for the needs of funds. In this case, it is up to the Minister of Agriculture to assess, for example, whether subsidies in the first half or the first quarter of one year are needed one half or less than one half of the second quarter. I really don't understand agriculture, but that total figure is then divided for different purposes, some of it's for warfare, fruit growing, vegetables, livestock, dairy, etc., and I'm firmly convinced that the minister knows what the annual needs are and that he's keeping an eye on it, and that he didn't spend that money less in the first half because he wanted to give less subsidies, but because he remained the funds for other purposes, for which he needed larger funds in the second half. So that's the answer, because I don't think he's going to come out at the end of the year with a savings in the subsidy position. I don't know how often subsidies have happened so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u44033	Thank you. Since we are, in accordance with Article 215, under the obligation to provide direct television transmission, and we are excluded from transmission, we will have to interrupt the session. Thank you. At 19.00 we continue our work. We cannot have a session with parliamentary questions and answers from the members of the government if there is no direct transfer. This is foreseen by Rule 215 of our Rules of Procedure. [[The session was suspended at 16.55 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u44034	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will continue the session after the break. The debate takes place in the order of the MPs, and according to the application for a word in a single debate on the Proposal for a decision supplementing the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly. Before I give my word to Parliamentarian Zoran Ostojic, who is next, and after that, MP Aleksandar Martinovic, MP Ivan Andric wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u44035	Thank you. I answered before the session with the government members started, wanting to warn the ruling majority that RTS plans to broadcast a volleyball game and wanting to ask you what's going on, but also wanting to warn that this session, even though it's the first one in this Rules of Procedure, has been done with a whole series of business violations. For example, under Article 205. In writing, the government informs the National Assembly that members of the government cannot attend the National Assembly session. So my question was whether or not the DS may have left the government, except for Prime Minister Cvetkovic, but our parliamentary group did not receive any memos on which one of the ministers would be there. We only saw that the government was made up of representatives of the SPS and G17 plus. Now, as always in Serbia and be, given that you didn't give me your word then, but I would like to hear the answers to those questions, of course, there has been a bigger scandal, which we all attended, so I would like to ask how it is possible that one man in Serbia, who was elected for the first time to the place where today, against the law, I am talking about Aleksandr Tianic, interrupts the session where the representatives of the government, the prime minister and the entire assembly are located, so that there will be a volleyball game on one channel, and on the second channel of rerunning the series from last year, "The Village is burning and the grandmother is combing." When we warn him, he says someone in this room owes him three and a half million euros. I ask you to really, as MPs, introduce us to the structure of this debt, since it is not clear to me. Like Mr. Micunović, I'm a member of the RTS Program Council, but I don't understand. The assembly has to pay the public service for the session to be transferred? You know what, it turns out that we're exorcising some kind of whim of our own, wanting people to watch this. It's like the video from this room is the most beautiful thing that can happen in the world, so each of us has some kind of benefit. (President: Two minutes. I know it's two minutes, but it's a lot of questions, so you can tolerate me for 30 seconds. I think it's very important...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u44036	I can't tolerate it, MP, since you're in favour of the application of the Rules of Procedure. I'm obliged to inform you that you have two minutes at your disposal. We can't choose when we're going to apply the Rules of Procedure, and when we're going to consider something so important that we don't need to apply the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. In part of the session from 16:00 to 19.00 hours, Article 216 defined that there was no right to receive words for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, as well as a replica. For everything else regarding the structure of co-operation between the National Assembly and the RTS, your argument and your position has been entered and I am ordering the service and secretary to organise the meeting. There is a competent body, there are also MPs and services in charge of co-operation and arrangements with RTS and let your discussion contribute to such future talks whenever they are organised, and I assume that you and I agree that it will be soon. As for your remarks that Article 205(2) is not respected, that you were not informed in writing of which members of the Government will not attend, the Government is under obligation and I order the Secretary-General, together with the text of your objection, to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to give a serious warning that, as the President of the National Assembly today has interrupted the session for which, pursuant to Article 215. The Rules of Procedure, RTS obliged to have a direct transmission, so we should also warn the Government that it is obliged to respect Article 205(2), which in today's case remained a notification. The People's MP Zoran Ostojic has the word, followed by Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u44037	My colleagues and colleagues, when a bully puts himself in a responsible position, and that is your responsibility, don't be surprised at the bully's actions. It's another humiliation to this House today. First it was this morning, when you made us talk about committees breaking this Rules of Procedure, and then, after that, when "The Village is worse and the grandmother is combing" more important than the Government, or the government you managed to barely bring to Parliament. And if you are not aware that you are destroying an institution, if you are not aware that this is not European behaviour, we will continue to warn you. Madam President, you are the legislator of this law. This Rules of Procedure gives you the right to take care of legality in this assembly, so I read Article 153: "If the bill is not prepared in accordance with this Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly will ask the Proposer to comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, which will specify precisely what this non-compliance is. What is on the agenda is not the law but the decision, but if it obliges you to comply with the Rules of Procedure, I suppose your decisions must be in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And they are not, because the Administrative Committee does not represent the relative authority and opposition. The ratio of 10:7 is not the attitude of the government and the opposition, but it is 9:8, and you know it very well. But what do we do when you're the promoter, and you need to warn that it's not in line with the Rules of Procedure? How are we gonna handle this? You have taken on a role that, in principle, ruins Parliament's reputation, and it is sad that the President of Parliament does. That's sadder. In public statements you recognise Parliament's debt to the Public Service, and you should not admit it because it should be clear to you that this public service, by obtaining a subscription and having passed such a law, has the obligation to transfer sessions. How could you write in the Rules of Procedure that he had to pass the sessions on the last Thursday, when the government came? You're making a commitment to him. Well, you can write in the Rules of Procedure that he has to carry all the sessions, it's analogy. But you didn't write it, but you admit to some phantom three million, with some satin that's pointless, which turns out to you to be your "busted" and you slowly put it into a situation so there's no transmission and it's his fault. Is that why you chose him for the second or third time? So you violated the Rules of Procedure by making this decision to be 10-7 on the Administrative Board. You're admitting debt. Ask Cvetkovic how much that man wants money from the equipment budget, how much he got -- subscription, marketing, budget -- and all that and the Assembly to pay him. If your goal is to stop the transmissions, well, you can do anything, as you can make a 60:40% proportion, although the relationship between the opposition and the authorities is 52:48%, which is 9:8. But that's how you destroy this institution, and that, in the end, is what you do to your own damage and damage to the country. I really don't know what else you need. Do you need to draw? We say - it's not 10:7 okay, pull it up, and then the chairman of the Administrative Committee comes out, who hasn't scheduled for months of the session and says, "You're against PUPS." We don't care who's in the ruling majority, whether Moma Colakovic is just supposed to be nine of you on that committee. So let this additional member from DS Mrs. Vukkovic resign. Do not replace the thesis and do not destroy the fragile institution of parliamentaryism in Serbia. You're slaughtering ox for a kilo of meat. You need a Shormaz. Or what, when they have one less messenger, will the milk appear in the shops, will the food prices fall? What do you need that for? Why are you doing this? It's like, how can I say, like... There's water in your ears, so you think you can do anything. And in the end, he'll be "wow" when the election comes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u44038	The LDP parliamentary group has used the total time available to the parliamentary group. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, followed by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u44039	Thank you. Ms. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, because of the citizens of Serbia, as we are now in direct transmission, I must say that we have started a meeting with the Assembly of Regulations in the edition of "The Official Messenger". Here are the Constitution, the Constitutional Law, the Law on the National Assembly, the Rules of Procedure and the Unique Methodological Rules for the Making of Regulations. Each of us, chosen by the people in the elections, on the lists of our parties, must stick to this and respect, above all, the Constitution, then the Constitutional Law and the Rules of Procedure, because this is how we regulate the work of the highest legislative body. I think, and as much as I have been served by my long-standing multi-party parliamentary experience, that in the past ten years, and here I see you are now preparing to mark ten years of the five-eyed coup you've conducted with the help of America and the Western powers, when this assembly is burned (unfortunately, it's been preserved), the Rules of Procedure has been changed six times. I will be corrected by Mrs. Comic if I am wrong, but there are changes and additions, so you once worked in that unique DOS as allegedly responsible people, your Democrats, so there was a revolution, you brought changes, and then you started to improve democratic processes in our society. It was realistic, since you promised your voters this democracy in the palm of your hand, and later they were numerous (this is now a newer history) analysts and people who said that it was all in the hands of the United States, primarily the CIA and others who instrumented certain organizations here to help you, of course, with the help of the American administration with a huge amount of money, and it was normal that today, on September 30, 2010, we do not come into this situation at all, to the government, and that we do not have a session that we have to have under Article 215. The Rules of Procedure in direct transmission, but that you have achieved such a degree of democracy that you promised when you conducted this coup and when this assembly was burned, that today we have not only a direct transfer of congregation meetings, extraordinary and regular, but also a transfer of session committees. I suppose it's an improvement in the degree of democracy, not that today, ten years after all these lies, delusions, your oaths to democratic postulates, which you've violated most flagrantly two years ago, when you stole the mandates of the SRS and thus turned the electoral will of the citizens, you continue to do so. Not that you are aware of it, you know very well what you are doing, and even many citizens are calling us in these two hours, as long as it was a break, and they say it was all staged, that you actually wanted it to happen because Prime Minister Cvetkovic wasn't ready to answer all those questions concerning, above all, Tadic's capitulation and redefination of the UN resolution without the Parliament's decision, explained the government's phone sessions... I don't know if the session's transmission was ruled out at the time when the prime minister explained that the urgency required them to meet and make important decisions. Where in all this is the National Assembly as an upward legislative body? At the worst possible level (this is my responsibility) since the renewal of the multiparty since the 1990s. You can say whatever you want, but I remember that in 1994, DS MPs submitted over 3,000 amendments (which is your democratic right, you have "democratic" in the name of your party, that's your name) to the local self-government bill at the time. I remember, there was an MP from Kragujevac, yours, one of the founders of my hometown, Borvoje Radic, who boasted that he had submitted over 700 amendments. So what, it's his democratic right and we've never even challenged anyone, but you're trying now to absolutely stifle the voice of the people and make it impossible for the parliamentary opposition and us who are the only true advocates of the interests of the troubled, robbed and nationalally humiliated citizens. Why do I say we're the only ones like that? Because you know it too. You tried the coup, you tried to do it, helping those who betrayed and ideologies that didn't really and obviously never belong to, but belong to the tycoon mafia and the Western forces, to destroy the SRS. That's why, by creating such an atmosphere in the Assembly, you've made it a little bit of a point that we today have to fight for a basic democratic principle in a society, that through a national service we have a public insight into what we do here. Not only do we not have that, but we do not have the opportunity, and today I have listened carefully to all of you who are representatives of the government, to express our views and our views on these committees as representatives of the opposition. You say – we were forced to do this because the opposition is obstructing the work of the board. And remember how it all started -- the first session of the Committee on Agriculture, which was chaired by some N.N., I don't know what it's called, which is an apostate of the SRS, who is still illegally holding the mandate and who is sitting here in the benches and who is then on the wings of what you gave them on the gift of mandates that belonged to our voter's party and who voted for the list "SRS – Prof. Vojislav Seselj", so these voters voted for the list, for the Sheschel's Radicals, it all started by standing there in the seat of the Committee to protect a ghost, a phantom, I don't know what to call it, which I'm president here, you can't do that. And we have been saying all along that our mandates have been stolen and that we are entering a very delicate process, and it is about the collapse of the democratic system, if you will -- of the entire political system in our society. Later on, it was just that, according to the new circle system and the point that was increasingly spinning, spinning and on other committees, on the Health Committee... No matter what legitimately called the Committee, called by our Dr. Paja Momchilov, a minister appears who yells at the MPs, then dares to do so and the secretary of state. Here, we'll see on Monday, Mrs. Kolundzija, Mrs. Komic, Dr. Paja Momchilov, as chairman of the Committee, invited the Committee on Health and Family to discuss with members of the Committee on the affairs of the so-called General Jevtic, the VMA chief, who banned Dr. Zdravko Mijailovic from giving his opinion on the extremely worsening state of our president, Dr. Vojislav Seselj, in the dungeon of the Hague casamat. So, let's see what kind of man is VMA, who didn't invite the SRS or the defence team, or Dr Vojislav Seselj himself, but was called by the court a year ago and more days ago to give his opinion and expertise, which he did on over 60 pages, about the very difficult health condition of our president, which, unfortunately, is worse and worse, and Chief VMA Jevtic forbade him. We now will, and we have tabled a motion for the replacement of VMA Jevtic, to point out to the public that through the institutions that are under the patronage of the state, in this case the Ministry of Defence, the treatment of a man who is truly a fighter for justice and democracy, with the highest respect for democratic values, that you can never dream of it. After all, if you followed him, and many of you did, I certainly know because I am talking to you outside of these official pleums about what an intellectual is and what a powerful fighter our President, Dr Vojislav Seselj, is aware that everything he taught us and what we fight for are true democratic values. But you don't fight for it. How would you do that when the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is in the hands of the Brussels office? Yesterday, at a session of the National Assembly College, we received a proposal on what the Assembly should do to compete with the Serbian government to pass laws leading Serbia towards European integration. If it were luck, many of those laws would never have been passed. If we were in power, we'd have to put as much out of power as we can right now. And that's what we're going to do the day the citizens show us trust, because these laws allow the tycoons and the mafia to continue robbing Serbia. It all started with the Privatisation Act, the first law of 2001, and a set of Djelic's economic laws, tax laws, etc. This has been produced in time and today we have a situation where we have over 300,000 hungry children, 800,000 people below the poverty line, over a million unemployed, pensioners waiting for some miserable one-time aid of 5,000 dinars, and those on the scale set by the IMF and not Mr Krkobic and Colakovic, because the IMF manages the finances of this country. The Western forces are managing the work of the Serbian Parliament, not us. And then don't say how our rebellion over what you stole, through 6% miscalculated (to call it, but it's stealing) of what belongs to the opposition on the assembly boards... You are, in fact, stealing from the citizens of Serbia, ending their electoral will. What happens here every day? I don't have that document in front of me right now, but up here, I got a call from a parliamentary group. Believe me, the citizens of Serbia, that we no longer know who's showing up here, who's the agent, who are the organizations that organize various gatherings and seminars. Today in the Small Hall of the National Assembly was a topic, just so the citizens know, we were also invited to join the Committee on Defence and Security, the participation of women in the security sector in our country. I welcome all these brave ladies, above all the women who have rank and who have survived in such an army where Sutanovac protects Jevtic, who, outside of ethical and all authority, forbids the doctor to give an opinion on the health of our president, and even goes to that point (this is what Mrs Pop Lazic said today, but not all citizens have heard this) that he does not want the Ministry of Defence to receive an SRS letter asking for the shift of Jevtic. They won't seal it. In the Serbian presidency, where we handed it over, they did, but they refuse to do it. Then I can imagine how these women are feeling fighting for their status in the Army. There are also women in the police, but, please, don't I need to talk here, as representatives of the people, and with Minister Dacic, who was also invited, and with the President of the Assembly, who opened this seminar today? No, no, no. Sonja Licht has to show up. So, Soros, Americans, the Western forces that led you to power are deeply infiltrated in the work of all committees in the Serbian Parliament and they are handling how which law will be made. Yesterday we even had Cedomir Jovanovic... Imagine, he came into this situation to honor you at the College session as an NGO, to call it, interferes with the creation of a new law on the financing of political parties. Why do we need that? Aren't you responsible enough for the people you think you are, so we can sit down and talk about it? Why did you replace the chairman of the Defence and Security Committee of Dragan Todorovic, who won the post as the representative of the main opposition party? Because we raised these questions -- who pays for who in Serbia, who's in a relationship with who and who's financing who? You've created, I don't want to quote one of the leaders of your opposition bloc, but it's a man who in his metaphorically literary way expresses himself on certain occasions, and as he said, you created Frankenstein or a monster in a political sense, so now you have to deal with him yourself, because he started eating you and eating you. But that's not our problem, because the citizens recognized you and them. Both you and the one who talked about the Karlobag-Ogulin-Karlovac-Virovica line, which we will always fight for and what is in our heart, today tells you, bangs and snitches all over the embassy, so you don't run fast enough in NATO and Brussels. As far as you're concerned, ladies and gentlemen, it's really amazing. Then why did you take such a shift on the Security Committee? Because that's where we started these questions. My witnesses, here to move a little bit to see me better, Mr. Vlajko Senić and Mr. Zeljko Ivanji. They kept quiet, though. Maybe they wanted to vote for something like that, but they didn't give them most of the coalition. And what did we ask? We asked who financed this phantom political organization that stole mandates with your help from Serbian radicals and Dr Vojislav Seselj's list. It's the mafia in our country. When we came to get a report from the Anti-Corruption Council, Mrs Verica Barac, who only attended the session once two days ago in a television show of the sports channel, not to mention which, on the direct question of the viewer, how did Dr Vojislav Seselj answer for eight years in the prison of The Hague tribunal – none other than the force on which the political court rests, which you probably need to become aware of. Many of you already have, and many will never be. We invited her to come too, we called on numerous times both Zagorko Dolovac and Miljko Radisavljevic, etc., but it all ended up being that you decided to replace the president of the Committee which is a Serbian Radical and that the deputy president, who is from a much smaller parliamentary group, continues to chair the Committee, and we still do not have the chairman of the Defence and Security Committee. We have a very strange situation, so now that Mr. Micunovic is here, I would like to take the opportunity to raise the issue of happening with the Committee on Foreign Affairs. In fact, we have a lot of decisions ahead of us, even a few ambassadors to come to the briefing in front of members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and we have a case that there are the worst possible abuses by the chairman, as I have pointed out both to Mrs Kolundzija and to Madam President of the Assembly. And Mrs. Pop Lazic tried to do it. Mrs Gordana Pop Lazic is one of the members of the OSCE Permanent Delegation. It was disabled several months ago, with the will of the majority of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to participate in a regular meeting of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly in Vienna. Why? Well, it's not like that. It's a Serbian radical. What's she doing there? Why speak against NATO and the EU (against which we are explicitly and that is our political platform for action and that citizens know that it leads Serbia to ruin)? It's better this way, all in gloves, fine. And then it is best that someone behaves, in your opinion, of course, not by the citizens, because they are deeply humiliated by this capitulation in the UN, that what happened in Vienna on September 7th, when Professor Micunovic, as president of our delegation at the Council of Europe, attended the Bureau of the Parliamentary Assembly of Europe Committee. What was going on out there, I don't know. I had to ask around. I know, actually, but I don't have official information. And now I expect it to be a session of the Committee on Foreign Affairs (you have a majority there, you have a quorum and no opposition) and that Professor Micunovic informs us whether it is true that he, as president of the Serbian delegation at the Council of Europe, whose regular autumn session begins on Monday, accepted the so-called Rome. a memorandum of participation on the invitation of the Secretary-General and the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, representative of the so-called Shiptar. Kosovo congregations. Is that true or not? They told me it was. I didn't get a stenogram, but you know where that came from? It came from the fact that all MPs of the Serbian delegation except for my smallness and Mr Todorovic voted in the Council of Europe in June for this resolution on the state of human rights on KIM, which envisions such a possibility. What will Professor Dragoljub Micunovic tell us now – yes, I did so on the basis of a resolution adopted in the Council of Europe? Well, why didn't you raise your voice there? How is it possible for us as a state to allow through a memo adopted in Rome to appear in any form now by any of the representatives of the Shipara with the kiM? In a situation like this, when they have the support of almost all countries, 22 EU and US countries, you are still waiting for Hilary Clinton to come in to line you up here and give you instructions on what to do and how to dissipate Serbia, that as a member of the Serbian delegation, I don't know what the President of the delegation is doing, that another colleague who is a member of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly can't participate in the work, so if you'll excuse me, please, who you've been talking to all day here since this morning so we don't respect some rules and that we're destroying democratic processes by making obstructions? Well, you are obstructing the state and the Serbian people, destroying everything that is sacred and for which the Serbs have fought for centuries, beginning with our glorious Serb army through all those who gave their lives and sacrifices to defend what is our greatest sanctity. Given that now, in the rest of the time, Mr Dragan Stevanovic, my colleague, speaking on behalf of our parliamentary group, I want this opportunity, first of all, to you, Mrs Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, as president of the Assembly, to call on you to try to influence those that are alleged democracy, and in fact slowly introduces it in an autocratic way, to put us in a position to hold sermons. Nothing has changed since the moment you and I were replaced by the authorities on October 5th. The fact that they said they were for change, that the people lived better, there's nothing to it. Believe me, when in difficult conditions, under sanctions and when we were on all sides disabled to live as a normal world, as a state and a people, we knew and with it went public as a government until 2000, the people tolerated it more with dignity. So, now under the vision of democracy and that everything is beautiful and colorful and we have just not entered the EU, which, otherwise, we will never enter, you know what the position is, first of all, Germany, and we are saying that we should never go there and that it is not our place, we have come to the situation that the Assembly, again responsibly argue, is on the lowest possible branches since 1990, when a multi-party in Serbia has been restored after almost 50 years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u44040	22 minutes and 30 seconds of MP time were used. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u44041	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've been given the obligation to resume, to round up the story of the SRS when it comes to this agenda. Before I look back at everything that is represented by the majority or those who have been authorized by the proposings of this today, I would have to agree with what Mr Ostojic said in the end. Indeed, this debate today and in general this document was initiated by the story about Dragan Shormaz, which is the epilogue of the story that was done two years ago. There is no problem with one MP, one mandate, the problem is the 21 that you, as it is, have taken away from the SRS. You'd wipe out Dragan Shormaz, it's not your problem, but you don't know what to do with your 2008 legacy. Today you've been waving this book all day, and it's lucky this debate is after that circus you made with your own government. You referred to the book you wrote, that in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you would provide a direct transmission at least when they were there. And you weren't able to respect that. Then what is it that binds you? You've been telling us all day that this is the Holy Scriptures. What kind of words did you get in the way of? Strong principles, citizens' powers, etc. And you were unable to secure the television broadcast of the session, to which the Rules of Procedure bound you, to which the Government was to answer questions to MPs, and very important and important questions. If there was no need, you wouldn't have made that up. But it's much more interesting to follow the workers' sports games in Krnjev than to talk about KIM and a bunch of other problems that are really a problem for every citizen of this country. You spoke here today on behalf of some strict proportions, and you even said that citizens have authorized you to make these decisions. We don't think the citizens have authorized you to do this. The question arises whether citizens voted for such a government in 2008. I'll remind you that part of this government and this assembly in most of 2008 is completely different ideas and political views of promotion, so when you realized after two months that you wouldn't make a government, then you reached out to certain mechanisms, those mechanisms that still govern you. The principles on which this government is built today have essentially only gained its continuity. Meanwhile, the theft of the mandate has been passed, and laws have been amended, which have not been applied, etc., and today it only gains its continuity. Nothing different has been expected of you or will be expected to make different, rational and more serious decisions until the end of the term of office, while this assembly assembly is under way. You say you're interested in Parliament and committees working. Who's been defending you so far? My fellow MPs have mentioned very correctly and specifically the committees that you have been a problem and obstruction to work. There are colleagues with KIM, ask, Mrs Kolundzija, you and Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, how many meetings of the KIM Committee have been held in the last six months and why they have not been held. If that problem was your opposition (and it was no problem) and the chairman of the KIM Committee, the president of the Assembly, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, could have called him out, so he did not. Because you didn't have a political interest in the Committee meeting, because the policy you're leading in Germany is a diametrically opposed to the one that might be outvoted here, at least in the KIM Committee, for example. Who forbade you to bring the end of the board meeting when you discussed the amendment? You drove your MPs away to lose your quorum, because the outcome of the vote couldn't have been what you expected it to be. Both this assembly and this people in Serbia are victims of your internal political accounts, misunderstandings and conflicts. And today, I don't know what you're going to do to convince us that you're doing the right thing. That's not true. And today you have shown that you are essentially only ready for political brutality and political force. You've been defending something all day that I'm not contesting. When you make relationships, it's 13:12. Or, when a device refers to a proportional tide, it's 9:8. You're trying to convince us it has to be 10:7. The arguments that Mrs Dejanovic made for the proportion you made can also be used for 15:2. And you were free to do that, there's absolutely no difference. You've had a majority of nine, but you don't have a majority for individual decisions within those nine. It's a fundamental problem, and it's what made you do what you do today, and unfortunately we do with all of you together. You wrote here in an explanation - that committees as permanent working bodies of the Assembly can function and do their jobs in full capacity. I'm asking you again who's stopped you from doing this so far. Today, Mrs. Kolundjia, you said - responsibility, or participation of the opposition in the committee's work. We agree, but we are not obliged or obliged to make a quorum, we can come and discuss it. You attribute it to yourself right through this book, or through this document, whatever you want. Well, if you take it in through documents for yourself, then you'll have to practically at the offices of this building to respect them, not the way you do it. You're clear here today - you stole six percent of something that doesn't belong to you. With what right will you, as the most legislative body, ask questions to those who conduct tenders and public procurement on your behalf why are they being built in with 6%? How in Serbia in the public sector is there no theft when it is stolen in Parliament? Who's bound to be responsible? It's nobody. So why would he be? How will you ask the directors of public enterprises what they have done to Serbia's debts worth over a hundred billion dinars, perhaps even 200? With what right? So when you're stealing from Parliament, we'll be stealing from companies too. Do you, after these things, have an argument or legitimacy to ask anyone any questions? Two months ago, you poisoned us with a story of affirmation of responsibility, or control function of the National Assembly. We've passed a new law on the National Assembly. And today you're talking, you want to transfer your work to committees and focus it there. Parliament's control function? We can't keep the government here today because you're incapable of doing it. Do you know what kind of law you've sent us in the process? On Monday, it will discuss amendments and additions to the Budgetary System Act. Do you know what the government is proposing to us in article 27? The last position is this – if the Government decides to accept suggestions from the National Assembly on a proposal from the minister. And you want someone to experience you and take you seriously? What does the government have to do with us? He doesn't commit her to anything, and he will, of course, do what he wants. What you're doing today is a force. You, Mrs. Kolundzija, have not yet had time to learn, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic has. It took time to teach her that beatings have two ends. This, of course, is what I'm saying politically. Who knows what time brings us today or tomorrow. What you should have learned is that in politics you don't behave the way you wouldn't like the government to have a relationship with you tomorrow. You don't have to do that. You tried this today to narrow down to the mere story of mathematics. You know, someone can have or doesn't have a sense of math, have or have no talent, understand it or not understand it, but this isn't a mere mathematical story. All of you who are going to raise your hand today for something like this, you have had to show at least a basic meaning for parliamentary principles, principles of democracy, respect and political respect and understanding. These are the grounds on which you could only build good parliamentary relations among all of us sitting here in this House. You don't hear anything like that. For such a thing, you, since your constitution, have shown neither will nor determination. In the end, I'd like to send a message to all of you who will vote for this. It would be good to remember everything we said today on behalf of the SRS, because in memory of this, in a time that is very close, and before you, you will find answers to all that will then be asked as a question. You're doing something that's not good, which is not politically useful, and don't be surprised if the same thing happens tomorrow, and the way you run this country and how you run it, the SRS is convinced that you're going to do it for a very short time. This is contrary to the law, contrary to the Rules of Procedure, the elemental democratic principles, parliamentary principles and the SRS, Dr Vojislav Seselj will not vote for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u44042	Eleven minutes and 30 seconds of the parliamentary group's time has been used. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Yeah. ) The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u44043	The President-in-Office, honourable MPs, you may have the right to, as an opposition, consider that you should not participate in the quorum when it comes to committees. You say it is the legitimate right of the opposition, I respect it, but then the next question is asked – how is it possible to provide a quorum for the work of the Committee on Industry, where the opposition has eight and the position seven; the Committee on Urbanism and Construction, where the opposition has six, and the position five; the Committee on Trade and Tourism, where the opposition has six, and the position five, etc.? If the purpose of forming a parliamentary majority is to enable Parliament to work in this way and to decide on a qualified majority established by the Constitution and by law, then it is logical to ask that committees, which are the most important part of parliamentary work and which should be only the seat of parliamentary debate and previous decision-making on laws (I would just like to remind you that some of the committees, according to the laws, are also authorised proposings of certain independent institutions and bodies), we have a problem and it is completely wrong to translate this whole story into one, any, MPs and his mandate. So it is just that it is necessary to ensure that parliamentary committees work. If the opposition considers it a legitimate right not to participate in the quorum, we say - it is okay, you do not have to participate in the quorum, but then it is necessary to ensure that the parliamentary majority, which has taken responsibility over Serbian citizens for making decisions, has a majority on these committees and thus enable the committees to work uninterruptedly. If someone really thinks that violence is when parties who have won most of the elections should be in Parliament and through committees to show that majority, then I don't think someone understands what democracy is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-09-30-0.u44044	Two MPs have been reported in the electronic system. Do you want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Replica? Yeah. You do not have the right to a replica, nor the National MP Natasa Jovanovic, nor the MP Dragan Stevanovic. (Dragan Stevanovic: What do you say to this? I had no intention of attacking you, nor of mocking you. ( b) National MP, I ask you to remind yourself of the Rules of Procedure, the one whom we are all asking for strict adherence. The regulations oblige the chairperson to decide whether or not there is a right to replication, based on what is said. Nowhere in the Rules of Procedure there is a way to give you the right to receive a replica whenever you ask. There is a deep misunderstanding, which arises either from the fact that we have not read the Rules of Procedure, or from not understanding what the provisions of the Rules of Procedure mean about the right to replication. I refer you to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which define my obligations, as chairman, when it comes to giving the right to replication. I am concluding a unique search on the motion for a decision. After we have conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the motion for a decision. Since the National Assembly has completed its discussion on the only item on the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, today, September 30th, 2010, starting at 20.00pm, as the Day of Vote on the agenda of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. I thank everyone for their cooperation, and I ask all MPs to be in the O.R. at exactly 2:00 p.m. so that we can determine the quorum and vote on the agenda today. Thank you. [[After break – 20.10]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before we move to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day, exist if more than 126 MPs are present at the session, or most of the total number of MPs. Please place your cards in the voting system's parliamentary units to determine whether 126 MPs are present in the room. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 128 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that there is a majority of the total number of MPs present and that there are conditions for deciding. We're moving on to a decision. We move to the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION TO SERVANT THE DECISION OF THE MEETING OF THE MEMBER STATE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA As the National Assembly has carried out the search and before the transition to decision, I remind you that, under Article 105(2), The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the majority of the votes of all MPs, decides on the selection of members of the National Assembly board. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision supplementing the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and I ask you to plead. Of the 128 MPs, 128 voted in favour. The National Assembly adopted the motion for a decision. We move to a decision on the injuries of the Rules of Procedure to which MPs pointed during the session. I remind you of the provisions of Article 103, Section 6 and Section 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the occasion of the apparition of the Members of Parliaments to infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure, according to which the MP, if, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, or the chairman, considers that the infringement has been committed, may require, without the right to an explanation, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known on the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. Ambassador Cedomir Jovanovic pointed to a violation of article 23 at a session on 30 September 2010 at 11:25 p.m. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted in favour. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly had been hurt. National MP Ivan Andric pointed to the violation of article 107 at a meeting on 30 September 2010. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Of the 128 MPs, no one voted yes, and one is against it. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of the single agenda item of this session and its decision on it, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Thank you.
