ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46699	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on the official record, I find that the session is attended by 85 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 87 MPs are present in the hall, and that there are conditions for work provided for by the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Notice of the absence of the People's Messengers. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Esad Djudjevic and Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. Notification of the invitations to the session. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Ms Slavica Djukić-Dejanović, in addition to the representative of Proposor Mladjan Dinkic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Regional Development, Verica Kalanovic, Minister for NIP and Jasna Matic, Minister of Telecommunications and Information Society, has called for the meeting of the National Employment Service, Nebojsa Ćirić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Sladjana Backović, Director of the Fund for Development of the Republic of Serbia, Vidoje Jevremović, Director of the Sector at the National Employment Service, Tatjana Prijic and Vera Rovcanin, Head of the Department in the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Nenad Ilić and Zora Ilić, Advisors of the Minister of Economy and Regional Development, and Lidija Smiljanić, adviser at the Agency for Insurance and Finance of the Republic of Serbia. We move on to the 11th item of the agenda: – Proposal for an Amendments Law and END OF THE TURISM LAW (specificities) Before we move to a search in particular, on the basis of Article 90(2) and Article 87, I am informing the National Assembly that we will be working after 18.00 hours today, i.e. by discussing details of the points of the agenda which were the subject of a joint search. Also, the break will be set at 1800 hours. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Vjerica Radeta, Dragan Stevanovic, Natasa Jovanovic, Radisa Ilic, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Mirko Munjic, Momir Marković, Zoran Krasić, Marina Toman, Zoran Popović, Sreto Perić, Tomislav Nikolić, Jorvanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Božidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezević, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladović, Boris Pelević, Milet Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Čalić, Milorad Bujatić, Milarjana Bujatović, Filipjana Milažanović, Pristović, Nikar Žalić, Nikarić, Miršavić, Boštić, Mirić, Mirić, Mirić, Mirić, Mirdić, Mir, Mirdić, Mirdić, Mirdić, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, V. You have received a report from the Committee on Trade and Tourism and the Government's opinion on individual amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46700	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it is interesting how in this strange redistribution of working time we are discussing, now without a representative of the Government, and according to our Rules of Procedure, we should be present, late at the beginning of work, everything is very interesting, and this is just for the sake of the public to see... (President: Please speak on the subject, if you wish to comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, and if I am not at my disposal, follow the obligations of the members who oblige me to give all MPs who do not wish to comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, I warn, and I sentence. ) Mrs. Komic, I respect the rules of the Rules of Procedure very much, and I guess that applies to the beginning of working hours. We are now talking about the draft law on amendments to the Tourism Act in particular. It is truly very strange, what these amendments and additions to the laws that the Government provides to the National Assembly, and for which the National Assembly, when it manages to gather 126 MPs, votes. It's about the law, the one that has 132 members, and these changes change 67 members. Somebody tell me it's a normal situation. Of course, it's completely insane, because if you wanted to essentially change something, then you should have passed a new law. You're changing here from basic provisions to the last provision of basic law. When it comes to Article 2, i.e. Article 1 on which I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I will say that it refers to Article 2 of the basic law and is talking about regulating relations in the field of tourism and on which the principles are based, and you say, among other things, on the basis of the sustainable development of tourism as a harmonised system of technical and technological and other social activities, based on economic development, the preservation of natural and cultural goods and the preservation of local self-government. We said it should stand, among other things, that it was about preserving cultural resources. Then we have an explanation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia why this is not accepted, and it is said to be – the notion of cultural resources is inaccurate, while the Law on Cultural Goods is fully regulated. This is a completely unmistakable explanation. What does the Cultural Goods Act have to do with this? If we're going to talk about precision, we're saying that it's in the context of this law, that it's incorrect to be culturally good, but that they should be cultural resources, because they're something much wider, because culturally well is one church on KIM, and the cultural resource is historical, cultural, etc. In that sense, it was our amendment and it would have been good if you'd accepted it, but we didn't expect it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46701	One minute and 30 seconds used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Before I move on to the next amendment, just to remind the MPs of the authorised representatives who, as authorised representatives, were for these points in the joint search in principle, PUPS – Đuro Perić, LDP – Natasa Micic, SPS-JS – Milan Nikolic, DSS – Arsen Djuric, NS – Borislav Pelevic, and the SRS parliamentary group – Zoran Krasic. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46702	This amendment concerns a member who defines and regulates the principles in the field of tourism, which should regulate relations in this activity, i.e. in this segment of the economy. I asked for the protection of the national economy to be erased from principle number five. If Serbia is in a position to protect the national economy by changing the Tourism Act, then we as a state have shut down. I will remind you of the devastating fact that tourism revenues at an annual level have been participating in only 1% of GDP and that unfortunately Serbia, due to its small responsibility to the economy in the last two years, has visited less than 200,000 tourists on an annual basis. These are indicators that suggest that you have no connections, touch points with what we talked about yesterday, which is the concept of sustainable development, and then of course with our national economy. The national economy cannot be protected by changes and additions to the Tourism Act. We would love to have the position and position of this tourist branch or the branch of the economy in the state at a more envious level, but I can tell you about a bunch of problems that are happening in this particular area, happening and in force only in the county, or in the part of Serbia from which I come. From Banjska tourism, of course, there are in Vlasin Lake, which has defined various strategic documents as one of the eight priorities of national in Serbia, and from the adoption of these documents that define and regulate such status in the last two or three years, the tourist product has not taken a step forward. Therefore, you have shown by your relationship and by that destination that you have no intention of protecting national interests and the national economy, as well as any other areas of the economy, and therefore we believe that this category of principles in this law is unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46703	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Natasa Jovanovic, a national MP, submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46704	It is strange, Mrs Comic, ladies and gentlemen, that you have come to the idea that only after a year and a few days you are amending and supplementing the Tourism Act adopted in May 2009, when you claimed that it was absolutely harmonised with what the EU is asking you to do, and the SRS is explicitly opposed to Serbia's entry into the EU. Because both this law and all the other so-called system laws show that you do not want in a proper way to look at the entire area of the Serbian economy and that what is a Serbian treasure, and among other things, the vast potential and resources in the field of tourism, are being treated in a way that would suit the citizens of Serbia rather than the Brussels administration. On behalf of our parliamentary group, I intervened in that section that talks about how relations should be established in Serbia to improve the area of tourism. Well, you at this point where I intervened, you say we have to have a good relationship with so-called civil society and other actors in the tourism sector. Of course, this notion of civil society was almost nonexistent before, not even those who were and how they were faithful to communist ideology, it was not even Cardellj in the area of socialist self-management, when such innovations were invented, that he had passed laws, but that was brought into Serbia by Soros and Sonja Licht. Because this center for so-called political excellence you call the civil society sector. Since the sector is operating here in the Serbian Parliament, according to the ministries and everywhere it interferes in both the Assembly and the Government, then it is understandable to me how you found in the bill a place for so-called civil society. I have suggested that they be associations of associations of tourist agencies and other associations, which are the only competent ones to coordinate between the needs and the unfulfilled demands of all the factors in the area of tourism in our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46705	It's been used 25 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Radisa Ilic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46706	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1, which is a member of the second basic law, with a proposal to add the words "in environmentally sensitive business practice" at point 2 after the word "economic development". What does "ecologically sensitive business practice" mean? Serbia's future is not seen in a difficult industry, shipbuilding, aviation, etc., but in the food industry, agriculture and tourism. To make tourism a significant link in Serbia's economic development, it is necessary to create preconditions for tourism development. One of the most important preconditions for this is a clean and healthy environment. Our national parks, protected areas, natural goods, monuments of nature, must be preserved from pollution, destruction and wild construction. Yesterday, we were considering amendments to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Nature Protection Act and there was a debate on two members of the laws that the Government was changing, all in order to allow under special circumstances in these national parks, protected areas to be built and to allow some works that would disrupt nature, and thus the environmental fund itself. What will Serbia's offer be to tourists while, for example, they visit Kopalnik, Tara or Fruska Mountain, if they pass by with some trucks carrying some strange barrels or tanks that highlight suspicious contents? So we don't see what was so dangerous in the definition of environmentally sensitive business practice that this amendment of the SRS was not accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46707	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The amendment was also accepted by the government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism. He's in the debate because the Legislative Committee didn't sit down. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46708	This amendment refers to Article 2(1) and the amendment requires that the term'sustainable development of tourism' be defined in fact. The legislator did not predict this in that section that speaks of the meaning of certain terms in the law. So, from the first organized journey related to the name of Thomas Cook, who in 1841 carried 570 people to a single destination, as a participant of a convention, and through the first journey around the world that the same man organized 30 years later, until today, sustainable tourism development involves certain tourism development. This tourism development must take into account three basic elements, i.e. it must respect three basic principles. One, it's an optimal use of natural resources. Two, maintaining essential ecological processes. Under three, the protection of natural heritage. It's actually a definition of the sustainable development of tourism that you didn't foresee in this section. This is especially because in recent decades there has been a huge expansion of tourism. There are new forms of tourism in the world, and some of them have a very significant place on Serbia's tourist map. I'll just mention some of them. For example, adventure tourism, which includes road to rough and unexplored areas, agrotourism, is a rural form of tourism, rural tourism, a stay in authentic rural areas, then ecotourism, tourism that implies a minimal impact on the environment, space tourism that does not exist in us, nautical tourism etc. All of this adds to the fact that the concept of sustainable development of tourism in that place, in that section that speaks of the meaning of certain expressions in this law, should be defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46709	A 15-second parliamentary group has been used. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46710	With the amendment, I wanted to improve this law on behalf of the SRS, and I submitted it to Article 2, in order to add a new item 3 which would read – after point 11, a new point 11a is added. which reads – the passenger is the person who buys or agrees to buy a tourist package arrangement or other tourist service, as well as the person for whose account or whose name a tourist service or any person to whom the right to use a tourist package is transferred. The explanation of why the amendment was not accepted says: "The amendment is not accepted for reasons that neither the applicable law nor the bill defines the concept of a tourist package, while the concept of travellers themselves is inexplicably explained." Well, because neither the law nor the law on amending and supplementing the law defines the term "the package of arrangements", which seems to be an unknown category for you, and because the term "travel" is incorrectly explained in the law, I asked the amendment to improve at least this Article 2 of this law, given that other members are not valid. Many of these members should change, but it doesn't seem to matter to you because you need to fit into the principles and rules of EU behaviour. By the way, I've seen you this morning and last night on television, this EU that you're leading us into seems to be entering a huge economic crisis, and then it'll be fulfilled what the SRS has been saying for years. By the time you get us to this Europe, it'll fall apart and we'll be alone there when you leave.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46711	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Anyone else want a word? MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46712	Well, with this amendment, we wanted to fix something that the pro-European government of the Republic of Serbia missed last year when it proposed the Tourism Act. However, you did not accept this amendment, so you gave up the EU, and that's good, but if it's so honest that you gave up the EU. I would now make a small combination with our Rules of Procedure and our Euro-Atlantic integration. For this item of the agenda are representatives of the government, Mr Dinkic, Mrs Verica Kalanovic and Mrs Jasna Matic. They're probably virtually present in the O.R. as soon as it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure and it's a new form of tourism: now you see it, you don't see it. We probably need to put in a term when you're reconstructing the government, the Minister of Tourism can be and it doesn't have to be justified, even though the representatives of the government didn't come because the Young One is moving into a new apartment. Then you'd all have to go there to be helpful, beds, chiffoniers, so you'd have to call the neighborhood to get it started, to get it over with. It's a joke on the side. People, if the European law changes even better by law probably 300 an hour now is this change, you're doing something for free. It's a weak idea of what you're doing. You've got yourself a dead end, and of course these laws are absolutely inadmissible, and of course these laws won't do any good, not to the tourist business, not to the citizens, as long as you have those sanitary inspectors who've been walking around and looking for a sherpa atest and threatening people to shut down their catering facility because of the sherpa attaché, and the fine is 200 thousand dinars. But if you go down two cafes below, we can make a deal for 20 grand because, for God's sake, the health inspector has five kids. Nothing can be done in such an environment. Be absolutely sure of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46713	The People's Parliament of Marina Toman submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46714	A colleague of Marina Toman wanted in a more precise way in this context to define what the job of the tourist agency was, and the government has indeed given some answer that has nothing to do with the real state of the market and which cannot speed up the principle of quality and responsibility that we have managed, that is, Mrs Marina Toman when she has submitted this amendment. In fact, she insisted that tourist agencies primarily perform this activity, and the government says the amendment is rejected because other economic operators cannot in such a way be eliminated from the process of providing tourism services. Well, then why should there be travel agencies, if working and other business entities are going to do this job? All over the world, categorization has been carried out, which is now missed by the passing of this law, from what is one unit and... I'd like to ask you, Mrs. Comic, this happy society from the DS, you are a serious woman and candidate for the responsible post of vice president in your DS, to silence them a little so I can explain my amendment to my colleague, Toman. So, you need to do the grading by quality. It is impossible in Serbia, for example, in a city like Kragujevac, we have 30 licensee who have the status of "tur-oper" and otherwise this term is not defined by this law, and in one Italy, Germany or France at the country level you have between 20 and 30 carriers of that kind of provision of tourist arrangements that can satisfy a large market. Therefore, we have managed both the standards and the quality to be applied in Serbia, and the government has not heard of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46715	National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The word is from Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46716	I'll pick up where I left off. So, not only because of the adopted ISO 9001 standards but also because of the fact that many ugly things happened to Serbian citizens, not only in this latest summer affair, but in the tradition of many decades in Serbia, when there were only social tourist agencies, such as the famous Serbian Traveler or others on the premises of the former Yugoslavia. I can say that, as far as these private agencies are concerned, many of which are now differentiated by the quality and level of services extremely high-quality in this business, there are certainly those that we can single out. For what? Well, because these are people who have highly professionally trained minds, because they dare to compete on the market both at tourism fairs and with us and in the world with many powerful competitors from around the world, and I think you should have accepted this amendment, because there are a lot of shortcomings in this law, especially when the concepts of tourism are defined, and they don't appear here at all. For you as if time had stopped, as if nothing had changed, as if there were no new directions that were spoken of earlier by counterpart Mirko Munjic. And also health tourism, he mentioned only some, nauticalally, eco, etc., we haven't reached space yet, as he said, but it's obvious that many ministers and representatives of the ruling coalition live in the clouds and can't get down to the ground and see what needs and tourist consequences and citizens of Serbia are in general.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46717	National MP Zoran Popovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46718	I submitted the amendment by proposing that Article 2nd paragraph 8 of the new point of 30th be changed and read: "The rural tourist home is an object or group of objects – an ethno-selo in which accommodation, food and drink services are provided or only food and drink, which is located in a rural environment with local features and heritage". The promoter neglected that there are a large number of ethno-selics in Serbia, and that the development of tourism in Serbia has the greatest perspective since income structure in rural tourism dominates the provision and sale of healthy food. In parts of Serbia where all industrial production, where there is no industrial pollution, are created conditions for production so-called. healthy food, i.e. those foods that do not contain plant protection and other chemicals, as well as products that have been genetically modified. This is largely why tourists visit very rural areas, when they decided to spend their vacation in the country. As rural tourism develops, the infrastructure of the area would also stop the dying of Serb villages that are increasingly empty or have a small population. From 4,800 villages, each fourth is on the path of disappearance. The development of rural tourism, apart from agriculture, would trigger an entire economy: processing, construction, construction materials industry, household equipment, traffic, trade and a large number of non-economic activities. The departure of especially young people from the village would stop and the reverse process would start – if not only the locals returned to the village, but also the people from the city to whom rural tourism would be a fundamental interest and very perspective.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46719	National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 2nd amendment. MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46720	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by accepting the amendments of my colleague Zoran Popovic and the one I submitted to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Tourism Act reminds me of that – you will not sometimes do as you wish. Since we are the most lively party in this House, as we see Serbian citizens living, we see what could be done in their interest, so that it would be better for everyone, we have tried to propose in this law certain supplements that would mean something. But you don't accept it, and when we say that you very often change the laws that you've just represented and talked about here, we don't comment on you as much as you approach the amendments to the law, but that's why you don't accept what we're sure it's going to be good and good. As I come from Ljubljana, I can certainly argue that there may be one of the first ethnic villages in Serbia in Vrhpolje raised and very often access to the design, opening or projection of new ethnic villages. We were going to legally define and define exactly what ethno-selo would be. If everything I'm saying were true, Mr. Jevremovic could confirm it. He can't talk about it today, but he must agree with me. Here we have determined that ethno-selo is the type of catering facility for the provision of accommodation and preparation of food and drinks located in a rural environment, with the lowest capacity of five accommodation units located in houses built in traditional style, which depicts culture, the historical heritage of that climate. In an explanation of this amendment, certainly everything Mr Zoran Popovic spoke of should be attached. I think there was someone here who was supposed to represent this law on behalf of the government, so that surely the amendment of counterpart Popovic and the one I talked about and the other amendments to the SRS would certainly accept.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46721	The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. National MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46722	This member of the basic law refers to incentives. We had an obligation to react to changes that are announced here by amendments and additions to the law. For the sake of the public and colleagues, I would read only that the Government is intended to deny the possibility of incentivising the municipalities undeveloped, which are unable to provide funds for the participation and implementation of these projects, i.e. funds for co-financing. Here's our explanation that the amendment is not legal-technically good. If there was indeed a political will to delete such a provision, i.e. not to change and supplement this law, i.e. to shorten the right to incentives in undeveloped municipalities, then there was both technical and legal and any other possibility of changing the law in this context. Of course not. But to governments who change and supplement us like this, it is easy to provide 10m euros for informants, spies, but for undeveloped areas, from which I also come, will not be able to exercise their rights to incentives. Tell us, gentlemen of the government, where did it come from in the Municipality of Trgoval to provide money, to make master plans, strategic and planning documents or tourist infrastructure? The estimated flood damage is 200 million dinars. So far, the government has provided them with only 80 million in goods and money, with 10m euros for spies. Where does Vladic's Han Municipality come from to write, draw and draw strategic and planning documents, projects for Mount Kukavica? Where did Surdulica money come from to make development documents, and they are located in an undeveloped area and these regional differences were made most during your government? Now our changes and additions deny us the rights to such funds. For what? For Vlassin Lake, located in the municipality of Surdulica, the government of the Republic of Serbia in the previous period, no matter when it has brought all strategic and planning documents, it remains to realise the master-plans for tourism, to make four more urban plans for which it needs 20 million. The government has no money to give for it, and it has money for Ratko Mladic. In order to start and revive tourism on Lake Vlasin as one of the eight priority national interests in the field of tourism, a channelling ring should be done as a basis, which requires 10m euros. It's an infrastructure to which incentives apply. Where did that come from in Surdulci municipality? You will pay spies, and that unfortunate, leftover people downstairs will be able to handle millions. You don't even have to finance everything, at least leave the possibility of making and doing something like that down there in co-financing. Now you're denying us the right to do so. If you wanted to prevent abuse, are these mechanisms? The abuse of the Development Fund, the allocation of incentives from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is not a matter of the absence of legal mechanisms and norms, but of your vicious political will, your political compromises within the majority, which have been mirrored by local self-government all over Serbia. That's why we think this amendment should be accepted, if you really want to protect the national economy, you internationalists. By amending and supplementing the Tourism Act, you should accept this amendment and help southern Serbia, the Pcin County, the Jablan County, Toplico, in the field of tourism, because we have comparative advantages and we can offer them, but we can't without the Government. You've left everything to the verse. So today we live in the conditions in which we live.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46723	Two minutes and 10 seconds used by the MP's group. Does anyone want a word? If not, a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 6th amendment with a correction. Does anyone want a word? MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46724	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam Minister, welcome. At first, I have to ask you if you have read this bill at all and have you read the amendments she has submitted...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46725	National MP, please, without speaking directly to the other participants in the session. Our Rules of Procedure clearly prescribes mutual obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46726	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Then I will answer on behalf of the Minister myself. I don't think she's read it, because if she did, I'm sure the assembly procedure wouldn't have let go of this draft law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act, which was adopted in a procedure that is extremely non-transparent, without a single day of public debate and would not give such reasons when we reject our amendments. Article 6 The draft law shall be amended and complemented by the whole of Article 28. The tourism law, not just some of its views. The SNS Parliamentary Group "Forward Serbia" has tabled an amendment to Article 6. A proposal to make some more corrections to Article 28. You rejected this amendment because it is not possible in a legal and technical sense, because it refers to the position of the 5th member of the 28th and not the position of the 2nd Article 28 that you are changing. How illiterate this argument is legally illiterate, it can also be seen in the last sentence, where you have stated that an amendment to Article 6 is not accepted. The proposal relating to Article 5, paragraph 28, since the proposal has made a renumberation of positions, so that that Member of the law has four positions. In this way you are referring to a bill that has not yet passed the congregation procedure. By the way, I'm a graduate engineer. I'm not a lawyer. My modest legal knowledge tells me that you cannot rely on a bill that is not voted in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but only on a law that is valid. Why are you doing all this? Why do you insult our intelligence, the intelligence of Serbian citizens? See what article 6 looks like. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act. I quote - Article 28 paragraph 1 is deleted, in the former Article 2 which becomes item 1, after the words "funds" are added, etc. Madam Minister, what does this mean - in the former Article 2 which becomes Item 1? It's more than a technical mistake. I think it's pure negligent writers of this law. You're only doing this because you want to mask the fact that you're equating undeveloped and developed areas, but not by the quality and quantity of investments, not at the rate of employment, but by the obligation of users from undeveloped areas to provide their own participation in the bid for incentive measures, which has not been the case so far. Have you, Madam Minister, consulted local self-government in Babusnica, Major, Bosilegrad, Gadjin Han, Frogs, Krupanja, Kučevo? Have you consulted other municipalities that fall into underdeveloped or underdeveloped? Have you also consulted fellow MPs who come from these municipalities? Let them tell you whether they can run a race with Belgrade, Novi Sad or other developed parts of Serbia, called developed parts of Serbia, and whether users from their undeveloped areas have any means of their own participation? Analysis of the state and perspective of tourism development in underdeveloped areas in Serbia has identified poor quality and obsolescence of tourism facilities. These facilities are mainly characterized by high age and lack of capacity and all because they have not been adequately monitored by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, tourism in Serbia must not develop solely on the basis of the Secretary-General's personal affinity, because it is so likely that all of us will be skiers. You must give the opportunity to Sijarinska and Josanička, Prolom, Bujanovska and Zvornička Banja, Nature Park Sićevaška klisura, Dolina Pcinje, Vlasni, Devil's Stone, like the Devil's Varoša in the Municipality of Trgovište, the monasteries Kalenić, Rekovac and Gornjak in the Municipality of Žagutica, the archaeological sites of Kale in Bojanovac, Justiniana received in the municipality of Lebana and many more tourist potentials are untapped in undeveloped municipalities. Tourism traffic for the past 12 years in underdeveloped areas is in decline, and there are some local self-governments in which tourism traffic is not even recorded based on official statistics, and you are thus also slowing it down by such a legal proposal. For all things, I urge you to accept our amendment, which does not require users from undeveloped areas in the use of incentive funds to provide their own participation.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46727	It's been used three minutes since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46728	The President-in-Office, distinguished representatives of the government, this amendment is unacceptable for simple legal and technical reasons. It is therefore impossible that the amendment, which concerns a member who does not exist in the draft law on amending and supplementing the law, should be considered as an opportunity at all. I understand that maybe some MP doesn't understand how we here can adopt or accept amendments and what amendments can apply. Amendments may refer to the draft law on amendments and amendments to the law, not to the basic law, which Article 6 refers to and in that sense to giving a lesson on who reads and who doesn't read and who understands what and how it should be done, I think it is at least inappropriate, except, of course, showing ignorance.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46729	55 seconds of MP time was used. MP Zoran Babic has a word. Use the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46730	Mrs. Kolundjia, I thank you for this moment, but I think it's unnecessary. You shall make amendments and additions to Article 28 to Article 6. The tourism law. However, these, as you have stated, legal-technical matters that make you unable to accept this amendment are just an ordinary mask. What is the basis for equating developed and undeveloped areas, for continuing to push undeveloped areas to remain on the tail of any development of the Republic of Serbia. Do these people have the means to track all this? Can these people live on their work? I don't think I can and that's the essence of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46731	It's been used 45 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. The People's Messenger Borislav Pelevic has a word, and the People's Parliament of Hope Kolundzija.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46732	Madam Chairman, if I may, I would like to take advantage of the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, Advanced Serbia's SNS, in accordance with Article 158(3). Rules of Procedure. Dear citizens of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Government, I apologize in advance for saying some of the things that I have said in the principle debate in particular, given that this topic is very important and that the area of tourism is under-developed, not only by the applicable Tourism Act, but also by the changes and additions of the Tourism Act. It is an important issue, given that all experts have found that not only agriculture, but tourism also represents the development chances of Serbia's economy. However, it is obvious that the Serbian government does not understand this because neither the law that is in force, which was passed last year, is not good, and at least these amendments are good and supplementing the applicable law. I would like to express my dissatisfaction again that the resolute minister is not present at this debate, but I fully justify his absence and regardless of all the political differences between our parties, G 17 plus and SNS, really insurmountable, I do not want to say anything ugly about him, I just want to say that there is really no time for man to deal with tourism, in addition to all the burdens he has in the Serbian government, Serbian Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Economy and Regional Development, the president of a party, and I really understand why he cannot pay enough attention to tourism. However, given that this topic and this area are very important, I think the resolution ministry had to pay more attention to the tourism area as our economic development prospects. What, unfortunately, in this proposal to amend and supplement the Tourism Act is not good that it brings nothing new. I'll start with an educational level in the field of tourism. First of all, this law in Article 50, which speaks of human resources, points 3. speaks of the fact that the managers of the agencies may have more education in the field of tourism, and intermediaries in point 4. may even have secondary education. Is it possible that the government felt that this area could be covered by leading places with secondary or higher education? Then why do we have six colleges and higher education institutions in the field of tourism unless the law does indeed specify it. At the time of adoption and the Tourism Act, but also these changes and additions, the profession has not been consulted. None of these colleges and higher education institutions dealing with the tourism area have been consulted. Only at the University of Sports and Tourism in Novi Sad and other institutions there are dozens of doctors in tourism science. None of them have been consulted. Why are you doing this? I think it is in the interest of all of us, all Serbian citizens, indeed, that the profession is being consulted, that experts consult, higher education institutions and colleges dealing with this, so that we can raise that educational level in the field of tourism and place it in the right place and if tourism is considered an economic development opportunity for the Republic of Serbia. I think that's how you underestimated all these higher education institutions and colleges, and the question is, why do they exist, I guess, because if you don't need the opinion of those higher education institutions, if you don't think they're doing their job right, then why do they even exist? It is not good that, in addition to so many universities and higher education institutions in the field of tourism, managers of agencies or intermediaries in tourism have only medium or higher professional equipment. After all, the senior expert prepares no longer and no longer exists, there is a high professional preparation. It would be good, therefore, to consult tourism professionals in the future. I have no doubt and I don't believe that the announced reshuffle of the government will be introduced by the tourism ministry after you abolished it in the formation of this government, which is really not good, but you might at least consider it, gentlemen from the government, to abolish some ministries, say, the Ministry without a portfolio. What's that for? Nothing but a single vote in the Serbian Parliament to support the ruling majority. I think such a ministry should be abolished, and it must be introduced by the tourism ministry because it is truly crucial for the development of tourism, or for the development of the entire economy of the Republic of Serbia. I think that's the question you need to think about and how to think about it. Now I'm going to move on to some also important things that you left out not only in this proposal to amend and supplement the Tourism Act but also in the applicable Tourism Act. Nowhere is there some tourism branches that are truly of great importance, which are most profitable, which are most visited. Like, there's no sports tourism anywhere, that's what I was talking about last time. At least in Serbia, if nothing else, big European championships, world championships, Balkan championships, many international games and football, and basketball and tennis. We've got a Davis Cup in tennis now. Do you know how many people on the side will come to us? Do you know how interested our citizens are? No more tickets. We only had two world championships this fall in Belgrade. Be careful, several million euros have agreed to Serbia's tourism only in terms of these sports competitions, only this fall, not to mention spring and summer this year. So, you've left out some of the crucial areas of tourism completely, and you've forced some of them like nautical tourism. We have to admit that Nautism can't be dealt with by everyone, just those cities that are next to the Danube, along with the Sava, it's a very small income, a very small profit. What's the problem? You mention hunting tourism, it's all right. I have a lot of hunting friends, but we need to know that hunting tourism doesn't attract so many foreigners, there's no foreign exchanges, there's no money inflows from that tourism. You forgot sports tourism, you forgot manifesto tourism, it's nowhere in the law, it's not in the amendments to the Tourism Act. What about our big events? Like BITEF, like BEMUS, like BELEF, like Gucha. Hundreds of thousands are coming from strangers. Most of all from Slovenia, but now they're strangers. What about Custendorf? Why not use the size Emir Kustirica has in Serbia? Why don't we pay attention to that, even if it's only legal? No, you don't have that anywhere. These are really the things that you had to think about, gentlemen of the government, and that you had to apostrophe not only in the law that was passed last year, but also in the changes and additions. If next year we're going to bring the amendments and the additions to the law again, then why all this? What's the meeting for? What are we spending money on citizens, taxpayers? Unfortunately for you, and to our joy, I am sure that the next elections will also bring about these changes and that one of the first tasks will be to educate the tourism ministry. In 2001, gentlemen of the DOS, you abolished the Ministry of Sports, and then you realized after a few years that you made a mistake. I pointed to that in 2001, and as a sports worker, I fought hard against the abolition of the Ministry of Sports. You have reintroduced it and what it is like – it is excellent, although it receives only 0.5% from the budget, the Ministry of Youth and Sports is doing its job and it is good. That is why it is very important to establish the tourism ministry as it is, I repeat, our development chance, the chance of Serbia's economy. Gentlemen of the government, you do not attach any importance to this issue, indeed, and that is what the problem is. So not only did you forget sports tourism, cultural tourism and artistic and cultural tourism, you forgot eco-tourism. Now you mention rural tourism, or rural tourism, and that's good in this law, because for the first time, it's a little bit of work that should be done the way it should be done, apostrophe of rural households, and rural catering services and everything else that's important, because we are an ethno-earth, because we are a country that really, if it can't praise something else, can at least be praised by its ecological cleanness, in fact, and by its ethno-resurs which Serbia has. There's not much of it in this law. There's only one thing I've welcomed, a country household, rural services, tourist and accommodation and catering, and that's the only point I could praise in this bill. But what really falls into the eyes is that we are the only country, not only in the region but also in Europe, which absolutely has no information base on what is happening in tourism. There are no research in the field of tourism, there is no communication with tourism organisations, there is absolutely no database from which we can see what our research is like in tourism, what are the results and how they are implemented in tourist practice. It's really gone and it's really bad. I have been suggested by several universities for tourism in Serbia, since they know I'm dealing with this problem and that I'm in this job, why isn't the profession being consulted again? Why don't you listen to the opinions of people who are much more invited than you from the government to speak and write proposals that you're going to adopt in the government, which are about the areas of tourism? But the way we're doing it, it's just, unfortunately, happening to us. I will only take a very short chance to say that unfortunately, as some of my colleagues have already mentioned, in the law passed last year, which has 129 members, you are now proposing amendments and additions to as many as 67 members of this law, which is more than half of the total members of this law. That's not good. We need to pay much more attention to the Tourism and Tourism Act and it really represents our future. You mention here among some of the priorities of tourist products, for viewers who don't understand it I'll just say that these are tourist offers, you mention urban environments, you mention some special interests. What are special interests? I also asked the minister last time, Mrs. Minister, who is not competent to say that. Unfortunately, there is no one here to answer, but is it really possible that the government assumes that there are many more important categories, some tourism products, such as the urban environment or, say, special interest? What's a special interest? Do not assume these tourism branches that I have cited, which are crucial to the development of tourism in Serbia? This really deserves attention and deserves to be answered by someone from the government, but unfortunately there is no one here to answer me or my fellow MPs, who are very meaningfully asking questions from the field of tourism, in the best desire to change and supplement the laws and to get finally the right law. Unfortunately, there's nothing of it anyway. I would just like to say that I am pleased that out of the seven amendments of the SNS, three amendments have been accepted, four have been rejected, but that means something. For the above reasons, however, I cannot really say that this law is good, that the proposal is good, and I want to point out that the SNS Group of MPs will unfortunately vote against the law this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46733	Anyone else want a word? National MP Janko Veselinović, then MP Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46734	The President-in-Office, honourable minister, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the previous speaker pointed out that the profession of this law did not give its word and that university professors and colleges dealing with this matter were not consulted. I teach Business Law at the Faculty of Agriculture, the Department of Agriculture and Rural Development, the direction of agrotourism and rural development. There's a direction for agrotourism. In Novi Sad, there is a direction to the Faculty of Natural-Mathematics that studies this area. I would say that all those who are seriously involved in this matter know and agree that the previous Tourism Act, which was passed last 2009 and whom these changes relate, is a serious shift in this area and that this area has been regulated in an adequate manner, in accordance with directives in most of the EU, but in line with the needs of Serbia's tourism economy. The needs of the tourism economy of the RS are not the same as the needs of the tourism economy of Croatia, France, Spain for reasons that Serbia has no sea, as it focuses its tourist capacities on Banish tourism, rural tourism, tourism concerning visits to cultural and historical monuments, and this law provides such opportunities. When I spoke in principle about this law, I said that it was very important that these amendments and additions to the Tourism Act elaborate on the way of registering, the status position of rural and tourist households, rural land that deals with tourism and rightly regulate the status of other tourist organisations. So far, we haven't had the right way to deal with the issue of tourist communities, or the issue of private entrepreneurs who want to deal with tourism, or the issue of their registration. This is now through these changes done in a quality way, and so is science from this area, but also people who deal practically with this activity. I spoke last time that people who deal with this work in the field of AP Vojvodina, Zrenjanin, Sremski Karlovci, Sremski municipalities, Sombora, Novi Sad had positive effects on the application of the Tourism Act, that a significant number of tourist rural economies, landlands, which should give significant results in the coming period in rural tourism, but this area that has not been adequately processed legally, but not in the area of tourism in the right way. Why? There's a lot of reasons. One of them is that our tourism was not a serious area. On the other hand, tourism has studied well at universities and higher schools outside the Republic of Serbia, so at universities in Zagreb, universities in Opatija, Dubrovnik, and Mostar. This science has not been properly represented in the last years, and in this area there are significant shifts, new cathedrals formed, this is not an easy way, nor will it be short. If we accept the experience of richer countries and in this area much more advanced, such as Slovenia's economy and the country's view of this area, then we will have the situation that a serious number of people in the country will accept the need and necessity to turn to rural tourism, as those who are engaged in tourism can also live well, but also those who are engaged in agriculture, livestock and other branches of rural tourism. On the other hand, this law is, and certainly science agrees, a serious shift towards consumer protection, i.e. travellers, partner of tourist agencies. Last time I pointed out, and now I will repeat, that a guarantee is being introduced for tourist agencies, i.e. to securely carry out the work of tourist agencies, which must be valid for all time while the travel agency is in business. So, all those people who want to travel, do tourist trips, will be protected, will not happen, as so far, that they remain without a voucher and without a tourist trip. On the other hand, the general conditions of travel that have so far been a serious way to deceive passengers have also been taken into account, a serious way to make the basic provisions of the contract relatively relative through general terms. In that sense, I believe that the opposition should also take care of all these elements, it should also take care of the fact that during the year 2000 there was a devastion of individual tourist sites, tourist destinations, through wild construction, through the creation of summer houses and in tourist destinations, and also in places that are naturally protected and that it will probably take us a long time to remove these consequences, if anything like that is possible in the next period and to do so. In that sense, I also believe that tourism is the best indicator of how much one area can be neglected, when it comes to the 2000 period. So there was neither adequate law nor serious study in colleges, nor did the state give any incentive, there were no elements when there were no laws. The adoption of the Tourism Act last year created a serious formal condition, a necessary condition for this area to develop. I hope that all the other ministries on which tourism and the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Ecology are based will make additional efforts to give tourism its place. Whether it's the Ministry of Tourism or the sector in another ministry, it's completely irrelevant. In various countries there are various experiences on this issue, including on other ministries. It doesn't matter. However, it is important what role countries will play in tourism, as an economic branch, and how they will give it and, ultimately, as legal and any other area.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46735	It's been used for eight minutes and five seconds. MPs' group times National MP Mico Rogovic has a word, so MP Borislav Pelevic. Time is available to the parliamentary group for 22 minutes and 12 seconds, and to the mandated representative of the minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46736	I thank you, Mrs Comic, and I invite you to urgently enter into the procedure of changing the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'm saying this for a reason why today, and we often have a situation where we have no one to discuss it with. In order for us not to discuss each other, it is very necessary, let's say, to take part in the Secretary of State for Tourism. He, according to the Rules of Procedure, cannot take part in the work, he is indeed a competent man and authorised, especially when it comes to Article 6, which is very important, and I have done these jobs in the previous period, especially at a tourist destination that is in an undeveloped area and indeed is in this segment, regardless of any formalities and legal formalities, could not have done anything without the participation of both the Ministry and the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, as I said last time, some destinations, thanks to their lobby, have become what they have been in the past twenty years, some of which were also known in the former SFRY, are now at the bottom of the tourist scale, but what everyone knows is that pearls tourist offers are mainly in undeveloped areas. The change in the Rules of Procedure is necessary for the reason that indeed Mr Petkovic has been in this place for three years now performed by the State Secretary for Tourism and that his jobs have been scattered into five ministries, as I said the last time. It doesn't mean anything to us that Mr. Mladjan Dinkic is here. It would really be necessary for Mr. Petkovic to take part, especially in such important matters and especially in the situation that tourism still works slightly in undeveloped areas. I don't want to repeat everything I've said so far, but I'm telling you that in certain areas, if you are engaged in even regional development, especially underdeveloped areas, if you don't pay attention to amendments and additions to Article 28, which applies to Article 27. The tourism law, and under the draft law, Article 6, indeed, there will be no more internality of Serbia, regardless of these pearls of the tourist offer. That is why it is necessary to make changes and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in order that today, and often to have situations with competent people from a particular area, we talk about this subject, not to discuss between ourselves, whether we are right or wrong, we report to the word and finally get out of the hall.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46737	Two minutes and 45 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word is from Ambassador Borislav Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46738	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is perfectly normal for the ruling coalition MP Mr. Veselinovic to defend the Serbian government's proposal and I have no problems with that. Obviously, however, he did not listen well. In the previous presentation, the only thing I commended was the rural tourism area he was invited to, criticising my presentation, which I only commended. That's all there is. It's the only newspaper that's good and needs to be processed. It's not done well, but it's done. When I talked about not consulting the profession, I did not say that the profession of the ruling coalition was not consulted, I mentioned this Faculty of Sports and Tourism in Novi Sad, which is the only one that deals, after all. These experts, neutral experts, who are not members of any party, neither ruling nor opposition, should be consulted. That's one thing. Secondly, I would tell Mr. Veselinovic that, since he said Serbia has no sea, there is no Hungarian sea. However, Hungary is a highly developed tourist country. Budapest alone has more profits and more tourism revenue than Serbia's entire tourism. That's what this is about. So it's not about whether we have the sea or we don't have the sea, it's about how we work and how we develop tourism. Unfortunately, we do bad things by passing such bill proposals, by passing laws like this, and by doing bad work on the realisation of these existing bad laws. So the only way out is the new government, the new government and soon the new tourism law, which will mean that there is a tourism ministry and I really disagree with the predecessor, Mr. Vesenovic, that it is relevant whether there will be a tourism ministry or some department at another ministry. It's not true. It's about the budget and everything. It's different when you have a tourism ministry, and it's different when you have a department at another ministry. It's about the money, the budget and everything. It is therefore very relevant to establish a tourism ministry to develop tourism as our development economic prospects.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46739	It was used for two minutes, one minute from the time of the authorised representative and one minute from the time of the parliamentary group, so the total time was used for the authorised representative. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46740	Mrs Dimitrijevic has submitted an amendment to that people's "the southerner, the sadder". Unfortunately, so is Leskovac and the surrounding area, so is the hero's Toplica, but when it does, imagine what it's like for anyone who observes that an agrarian is, which is a prerequisite for the development of this rural tourism, with me in Shumadia. That is enough to say that in the village of Pečevci near Leskovec, where Mrs Dimitrijevic is from, there is a highly educated professional staff of young people who have come to school in Belgrade, some of them have completed colleges in Nis or Kragujevac, and unfortunately no one can return to Pečevci. For what? Because there's nothing waiting for them. They don't have a job, the end is abandoned, and you didn't want to accept an amendment that requires that local self-government can give incentive measures, because many local self-governments don't do it. In every city in Serbia where the mayor or president of the municipality was a Serbian radical, we introduced agrarian budgets, we introduced funds for tourism development. How could Serbia progress? By strategically defining for agriculture and having incentives in the area of agriculture, if we had enough food for our market, if we didn't have to import milk that we don't now have to buy for Serbian children in our shops, we would also have food for export and therefore for the development of rural tourism. She insisted on it because of the fact that only nine residents live in its region and in Kursumlia for a square mile. If we continue at this pace, and you continue along the paths of Joseph Broz, because he is deagraping so-called Serbia carried out its communist rule, and now it continues. In 15 years, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and above all, speaking to Serbian peasants, will disappear every fourth village in Serbia. That's the expert's assessment. When you called on the UN code in the 1st member of the amendment and supplementation of this bill, then you should have been honest, but we don't have a competent legislator here on behalf of the Government, to say that the World Tourism Organisation, as well as Mr. Secretary of State and all the people who deal with this area, has focused on Serbia by developing agricultural tourism strategically, if defined for that, over the next 10 years and how it can make a lot of use of the budget, several billion dollars or euros. You don't want to. You are making some EU and Brussels-wide laws, and therefore the Serb village is failing, and that is why this story of tourism development is unfortunately empty here.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46741	Three minutes of MP time was used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46742	Mrs. Comic, don't think this is some imaginary performance, this wonderful apple I hold in my hand is a gift from a fellow colleague, Vitomir Plužarevic, our MP you know. He's the father of four children and he's in Vrdnik on his estate making these beautiful apples, and here's this red one. He was a gentleman, as always, so he gave each Serbian radical an apple. So he just got here, and this isn't making any sense. To continue this story from earlier on about the development of rural tourism and agrarians, above all, so that we could develop it. We in Kragujevac, in the heart of Serbia, do not have any incentive measures in the forest to develop rural tourism. Villages around Kragujevac, the village of Veliki Šenj, Stragari, which was once a municipality, the village of Kamenica and many others with untapped potentials, are now unable to employ someone and that people, through some measures the Serbian government would take, are developing rural tourism in this beautiful area of Serbia. You can see the staff in this new series, as well as in the old series "My Family From the Village", which is shown on Sunday nights and see what the medieval place of the Fighter in the municipality of Knic looks like. That's where people get on their own. Each of them who made an ethno-complex had absolutely no help from any Serbian government from 2000 to today. That is why it is extremely difficult for us to talk so propagandaly about it being necessary, that we can employ a huge surplus of labour, especially women who have remained in this process of ruthless transition without a job. In many other countries, which have been heard to develop rural tourism and that the government singles out these incentive measures, the unemployment rate especially among members, conditionally said, the gentler sex is only 8%, because they are all employed. The complexes already known by tourists around the world in these countries, I will only mention Switzerland, although it is in the north and even now in southern Italy, not to mention all of Greece, because it is not only the sea and the islands of tourism in Greece, but also what is located in the centre and interior, and what an exceptional offer for tourists around the world. Unfortunately, we have not done what is most important, to declare Serbia a country that is the centre of the region that is fighting and which is against genetically modified organisms. How do we do that, Mrs. Comic, when in your government only a few years ago you had Vitosevic, and Ivana Dulic Markovic, who brought hundreds of thousands of tons of genetically modified soybeans to this day, to this day we do not know the exact information, into Serbia. Therefore, nothing good can be expected by a Serbian peasant, and such individuals as Mr. Vitomir Plužarevic and his family will continue to fight and produce such wonderful apples and other products on their property.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46743	A minute and 30 seconds of MP time has been used. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46744	Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to the amendment to the amendment and supplement of the Tourism Act. I believe this amendment, which I have submitted on behalf of the SRS, in a complete and precise way, to define the concept of tourist agencies. The role of tourist agencies is to create tourist arrangements, as well as new products. Thus, they have a role to play in tourism. Expansion of tourism needs and demand triggers and enables the creation of a wide range of tourist arrangements, the division of tourist agencies. With this law, the division of ordinary tourist agencies and tour operators is not executed, but all agencies that possess the licence are treated as travel organisers. Thus, the difference in quality and level of services provided and arrangements is left exclusively to the market, although it is clear that in Serbia today, individual tourist agencies stand out in their format and professional frame, the first tour operators who have played a first-class role in the process of creating and providing travel products. We should certainly point out here that the state did not support the particular form of stimulation, because the tourist consequences of knowledge and reputation themselves have fought for their place, not only in Serbia, but in many other countries around the world with which they successfully co-operate. That is why we can argue that these agencies have made a much greater contribution to setting up a bridge between the tourism demand and the offer, through the very complex work of the tourism agendas. It is clear from the explanation of this amendment that tourist agencies are one of the most significant tourism drivers that in the 21st century has grown out of curiosity and entertainment to human need. That's why I invite you to accept my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46745	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs, the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by Natasa Jovanovic. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46746	Not only because of the precautionary measure, Mrs. Komic, I have to speak to you here, too, because I can't speak to Mr. Secretary of State, who is the only competent here, personally, but also because of the need to protect potential users of travel agencies services. We intervened, and I submitted this amendment. I think it is very important that someone, if defined as engaged in this activity, has at the entrance of each office, as we have sought business space here, the prominent name of the headquarters of a company, especially because it would not bother all those who have their own businesses throughout Serbia. Today in Serbia, we have on the market, which has been ruthless for the past twenty years, several such large tourist agencies that have their own representations in other Serbian cities and why it has bothered the legislator to accept it. So they say, it is in line with some other member who deals with business and how tourist agencies act. Mr. Filip Stojanovic noted nicely that it is now not just a party, but a need for people. How can we take advantage of that need? So that tourist agencies must play a much more important role than taking tourists from Serbia to these popular destinations today, such as Egypt, first of all, Tunisia, Greece, Turkey and so on, and also the Montenegrin coast, but also to deal with bringing foreign guests here. I remember when Serbia's Vasovic was the mayor of Kragujevac, it was 1990-1991. We tried to get one deal to bring in certain cities from Europe, and especially cities to gather Kragujevac, a number of tourists to visit not only Kragujevac, but all of Serbia. And I don't know why it is that some city in Serbia has a city picked up around the world, probably because we promote what are the cultural and historical values of our tradition and that we would attract those foreign tourists to come here. I have to go back to the only positive step now because that's where these signals come from, and that's a recently ratified agreement between Serbia and Brazil, because you know very well that Brazil has several million, two to three million tourists from its country who travel around the world every year. Now, since you finally remembered to lift visas for the citizens of Brazil, I expect that from them, as well as many other countries that were around, we in Serbia will benefit so well and that this is the future to come to visit our ethnic village, not to go to the Ethno-selo "Baika" at Arangelovac to look for the famous General Ratko Mladic. He's not in "Bay." He is already in songs that have the symbol and character of the Serb resistance to everything that has hit us in the last twenty years. First of all, the symbol of resistance to the enemies of the Serbian people and to the Hague Kazamat, where it has been here for eight years, as it would say, on the justice of God and our President, Dr Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46747	A minute and 50 seconds of MP time has been used. The 8th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Marina Toman. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8th of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46748	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 8 relating to Article 43 of the basic law and regulations on the work carried out by the tourist agency. With the amendment, we wanted to extend point 2a to point 2a, which would allow the representation of domestic and foreign tourist agencies in travel destinations. This is actually a form of business co-operation that is common in many countries of the world. However, tourist agencies, as well as users of tourist agencies, sometimes have a strange way of doing business here in Serbia. We heard from the media about the Belgrade-based Conta agency, and there were other similar cases, of cheated citizens, of false arrangements, of how the state reacted quickly, so we saw the arrest, the investigation went on expressly, etc. However, there are quite the opposite cases, that tourist agencies meet all the clauses of a contract with a working organisation, with a union, a firm, a school, and then they do not collect their claims. An actor of such stories and a tourist agency from Cicevic "Inter Lipa Tours", I have here a court ruling on 25 September 2009, which became a forceful 20th of January 2010, and an executive on 5 February 2010, which remained in debt of the Independence Union, JP Pozršinski kopovi – Kostolac, and that is as much as 14.816 euros. So, the Independence Union and their President Canak, instead of paying for tourist services to this agency, are being made blind and deaf. Could someone be so irresponsible as to act, to drive a tourist agency into bankruptcy with their behaviour, and on the other hand to mention the gentleman and the union we see him negotiating with the government, worrying about the dangers of workers, he is concerned about the future of Serbian citizens, seeking justice and justice. And if Chanko and Independence is to justice and justice, then let his union settle the costs, and so is the court's testimony.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46749	25 seconds of MP time was used. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Messenger of the people Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46750	So this amendment also applies to Article 8. The draft law and the objective of this amendment is to complete the concept of the activities of the tourism organisation by predicting that, among other things, these jobs will also be an intervention in the issue of rooms, apartments and other accommodation facilities. You know, for the 21st century, it's said to be a century of tourism, at least it's said in some developed countries, and I'm asking you from the Ministry -- where is Serbia? Is there a real basis or at least some hope that Serbia will be 21st century, a century of tourism? However, for those who would like to hunt Ratko Mladic, I think they are also putting it into some kind of hunting tourism, but I guess in the end it will only come down to empty hunting stories. To explore tourism, explore guests, hosts, permanent and temporary residences, explore the basic subject in tourism, so, tourists, assumes the use of many sciences, such as psychology, sociology, marketing, economy, law, construction, etc. Tourist dissatisfaction once or more can affect some of their fateful decision by they will never say again in the country, which can indeed be a major problem for every country's tourism, including Serbia. As a result, the role of these tourist agencies is really great and the jobs carried out by the tourist agencies must be truly comprehensively shown in the law. The amendment is just an attempt to achieve this and such goal, an attempt to complete the definition of business, i.e. the business of tourist agencies, because they actually create, or create new products, some new arrangements and are asked to innovate the offer, then, to improve the quality of the offer, to adapt the price to the market, to constantly and constantly modernise these offers and to communicate in a market way. For these reasons, it is precisely necessary to show these jobs comprehensively and not only as domestic jobs and in rural tourism, as you have done, but much wider.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46751	One minute and five seconds used by the MP's group. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Deputy Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46752	Mrs. Komic, in order to provide a complete quality for the passenger, the intentional person, for everyone who shows up in one city, you all probably have such experience that it happens to you, whether you are in an organized tourist arrangement or you have gone somewhere with your family, you show up somewhere, and now it's more acceptable for people to start a car with children and explore themselves and make themselves the way they want the package arrangement. Then you need to get the necessary information and publications about where you came from, what you have in the environment etc. Therefore, it was also necessary to include in the work of tourist agencies what I proposed with the amendment - providing tourist information and propaganda material. I guess it's so normal. Not some man who showed up in a city in Serbia, here I was talking about it a little while ago, and we want as many people as possible, especially from our friendly countries, to come and see our beautiful Serbia. Well, for what? Well, because we are also a friendly people, because even in a difficult situation like this, tourist MPs are still trying to do their best to keep the quality of the service at a satisfactory level. Now, you imagine one of those passengers, a young couple from Brazil, and one of them started before this ratification of the agreement, so they returned them from Nicole Tesla airport, people went on a married trip, but they didn't know that ratification had not yet arrived in the Assembly and went to the left round to another country. Now, if such a person comes to Serbia, most normally you will provide him with basic information, and when they come here, as Mrs. Komic says, this is your house, the House of the National Assembly, all these children and people organized in groups, this girl who is the curator of our Assembly in this impressive Ilkic edition tells everything that is in the works of her work. We still don't have here, although you might think about it, even so, Mr. Odalovic, to improve the image of the National Assembly, to print a brochure, so those people when they come here, to give them an insight and to have at least a basic proposal of where they came and when the Assembly was created and how parliamentary democracy developed, some of them shrunk, as some informer. I think that you should have accepted this amendment, because every passenger is very important that when he comes to any end of the world, and especially we want to show that in Serbia and that there is much to see, he should get at least basic information, or a publication, and not step foot into the agency, without being charged for such a thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46753	A minute used by the MP's group. Lidija Vukicevic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment with the correction was filed by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia parliamentary group. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee accepted the amendment. He's in search. We don't have a report from the Legislative Committee. Does anyone want a word? National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46754	We had two interventions, a colleague of Lidija Vukicevic, because it is completely incomprehensible, especially now in this era of charter flights and the organisation of travel and transfer from Belgrade to the Temisvar airport, from Belgrade to the airport in Budapest, that you, by any means of transport, are looking for a companion or a tourist guide to be or to follow passengers. Please, how are you going to look in that mini van or minibus if you're just transferring to the initial destination, or to where the plane charter is from? It's absolutely incomprehensible. Instead of saying that you were making amends to this law, and it is meaningful and professional, and compared to other laws of other countries, you had to do much better, instead of eradicating that 75 passenger limit and that you said, especially because of the fact that there are 200 passengers on board and where there are 200 passengers on board, that this is not limited in this way, you are looking for it here. It is incomprehensible to enter what is a good practice and how the differentiation of the quality of tourist services, tourist agencies, is done, to ask for a visible emphasis on services that are variable, such as booking services and visating services. A travel agent can never know in the right sense of words, because it's a variable category, how much it costs. This should not have remained binding in the law, because what they charge, every tourist agency, what is taxed, anyone should pay the tax, and you cannot know, because it is constantly changing, depending on who you work with in which area you make a reservation, etc., to make it visiblely indicated. In the overall arrangement and specifications of services, it will end up standing at the price and at the part taxed, the state will take from the agent the tax it belongs to.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46755	Thirty-five seconds has been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? If not, MP Boris Aleksic has submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Arsen Đuric and Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs from the Progress Serbia group submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radeta. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a letter from the Prophet of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46756	Article 12 is actually a member of the 51st law that changes and this article shows how pointless these changes are to you, which are only cosmetics. It's not a tourist organization, it's a travel organizer. The essence and solution of the real problems, when it comes to tourism in Serbia, are neither spoken nor in this law, nor in the basic law that you adopted a year ago. The amendment we have submitted concerns the position of 2nd of this Article 51, where you have provided that the licence, at the request of the applicant, shall be issued by the tourism registrar by a three-year period of validity and which shall contain a full business name, home number and the seat of the travel organiser. The position of the SRS is that the period for which the licence is valid should be five years. Indeed, this is more meaningful, because you say that you do not accept the amendment for the reason that the current law sets the deadlines for a solution to carry out the action in line with the European standard is precisely what is worrying. As long as you go after some EU standards, this people will not live any better, so there will be nothing better in the field of tourism either. One suggestion to the Secretary of the Assembly. If you really decide what counterpart Natasa Jovanovic suggested, which is an excellent proposal, to create some tourist prospectus for the building of this assembly, do not forget to write and who burned this building in 2000, what a pity, where art paintings have not yet been returned. Don't forget that black part of the history of this building.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46757	25 seconds of MP time was used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46758	I'd like to ask the Ministry gentlemen to clear something up for me. In Article 43, it stands unequivocally – a tourist agency performs jobs, etc. In Article 51, which is otherwise subject to the amendment, delete the "tourism agency" and write "travel organizer". I think it's much better to have a tourist organisation because it's a little illogical for Boris Tadic's regime and for the government of the Republic of Serbia that they are travel organisers. They are the biggest promoters of a new type of tourism that is now emerging and the question is how long will it last in Serbia. Of course, it's about hunting tourism. When they announced the prize, they immediately reported their interest in a large number. Like, a complete Black Water. Let me remind you, it's that private organization that did business in Iraq.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46759	People's MP, with full respect for everyone's freedom to try not to try to compare two topics, one of which is on the agenda, changes and additions to the Tourism Act, in such a way, I dare say, with a completely different subject. Either you're talking about the agenda or I have no choice but to make a commitment from article 103 remind you that you're bound to, even when you're using style, metaphor and creativity of your own exposure, you're doing it so you don't violate the reputation of this institution.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46760	Madam Chairman, this time you said don't count on me in my time because that's not what I'm talking about. Secondly, you as a speaker have to let me convince the Ministry to accept the amendment and to finish the job I started.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46761	People's MP, I warned you very clearly, by seeing the stenogram you can see why. So either you use the time for the amendment to talk about the agenda or leave me no room but to apply the provision of Article 103(7).
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46762	With my amendment, I asked that the license be issued for the performance of each agency's exposure. You said that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the applicable law stipulates that the licence is a commercial entity or a legal person. Why couldn't tourist agencies have only one exposure, and why couldn't that exposure get a license? On the other hand, I thought I'd convince you, she didn't give me the chairman, to pay a little more attention to this new branch of tourism, but I wouldn't want the chairman of the Administrative Committee to present himself to my money as a humanitarian, so I'll finish, and if you want, I'll explain to you what I wanted to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46763	30 seconds of MP time was used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46764	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Vice President, in an attempt to explain to the representatives of the government why the amendments to the SRS had to be accepted. My fellow lawyers won't mind me saying what I said in an attempt to try, because somehow I don't fit this, but my goal is to tell you in a picturesque way why you made so many mistakes when you said you didn't accept these amendments. Dear citizens, the DOS government has been learning and practicing to write laws for 10 years. This was also tried by Bojan Dimitrijevic as Minister of Trade and Tourism, and this government tried a year ago and now that they have been amended and supplemented, proposing here a proposal for a law on tourism and when they have been amended and supplemented, the SRS has tried here with two aspects to shed light on the need to accept these amendments through our reasoning. The first is to correct the text, to be more precise, and you saw that, by submitting amendments to Article 2. The draft law wanted us to specify certain terms and categories necessary in the Tourism Act, then concrete and very effective proposals that Miss Natasa Jovanovic made and proposed to the general secretary of the Assembly. No wonder her suggestions are very good because she's a good part of her work...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46765	People's MP, please speak of the agenda. There is an amendment on the agenda that speaks of the Ministry being closer to the regulation, so I ask you to apply the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46766	If I've trained well, it's to talk about what's on the agenda, but in order to understand that, in order to understand, I need to connect certain things. You can't watch one amendment from another now.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46767	National MP, an amendment containing "The Ministry is closer to laying down the content of the requirements for" etc., in no way can you associate with the proposals of the National Parliament of Natasha Jovanovic, so I now warn you that you are talking about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46768	Most of all, I talk when I'm warned. Now I'm talking about it. We also suggested in this amendment that instead of the "Minister" we go to the word "Minister" on one hand. On the other hand, we want to specify that the deadline of 15 days is the deadline because it is objectively possible, respecting all overcrowding of the work of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, that it is possible to respond within 15 days to the demands of those who need to address this ministry. In the end, I have to inform the citizens of Serbia, what my colleague Stevanovic said, it refers mainly to those spies, respected citizens. There is no money for the regular implementation of the 2011 census, let alone 10 million.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46769	People's MP, you've been warned you're talking about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46770	I'm done, I've explained. I think colleagues are quite aware that this amendment should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46771	30 seconds of MP time was used. The 13th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? National MP Natasa Jovanovic wants to talk about the amendment submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46772	Just for a little while. We do not agree at all, and you did not have to intervene so rudely when your colleague Peric spoke, first because of the fact that the 15-day period is quite enough to respond positively. Secondly, Mrs. Komic, the ministry's representatives did not consult most of the travel licence holders in Serbia at all because you cannot put in the same rank, that I am not now making a free commercial, but several of them profiled on the world market by Serbian tour operators with some tourist agency that will meet the minimum technical and personnel conditions and have absolutely the same license of travel organisers. You've done this very badly. If you were in charge of the experience that passengers have and users of services you should have made a clear standard, and there was a proposal, not by "Jute," because these probably have to nominate everything you suggest, I don't always say, but that's the case. I know for a fact that it happened in my parent company, which is the first tourist agency in Serbia and is located in Kragujevac, that you only sent through the Tourist Agency Association information that you intend to introduce one general travel license for all, which is not good, because each of your qualities in the ruthless market without the help of the state chose for its status. Thank you. It's in favor of the amendment. I don't know why he wasn't accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46773	A minute and 30 seconds of MP time has been used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 13th amendment was submitted by a group of 21-nation MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The government and the Committee on Trade Tourism have adopted this amendment. Legislative doesn't have a report, it's the subject of a search. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Arsen Djuric and Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by MP Arsen Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46774	The Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleague Aleksandar Pejcic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 14 which we have proposed to add in the last position after the words "travel" to the words "and the heights of traffic achieved in the previous year". In the debate in principle, I was talking about the fact that there are a lot of undefined things in this law that are proposed to be defined by some sublegal acts, or the minister or the ministry will be closer to prescribing the terms and I don't think that's good. In this regard, this amendment, which should practically give the Minister’s guidance when prescribing the terms of the travel guarantee, was submitted. In the last position of this member, it is said that the minister is closer to prescribing the type and conditions of the guarantee of travel, the way of activation, as well as other conditions that must be met by the travel organiser, depending on the type of organised travel, and we have proposed "and the heights of traffic achieved in the previous year". In the light of the law, the financial effects of the law states that economic operators will cost the guarantee, i.e. insurance policy between 1500 and 2000 euros, and it is not controversial, so I guess there is not much money for some large tour operators and I completely agree that it is necessary to regulate this area, i.e. that greater protection of consumers and users of tourist services is necessary. However, I think it is also necessary to make sure that the distinction between these large tour operators leading to tens of thousands of tourists abroad and small travel agencies, i.e. travel organisers, operating locally, which organise a one-day or two-day trip in their immediate surroundings, is made when drawing up this sublegal act. Because 1500 euros or 2,000 euros guarantee for them is extremely large, because they can't do much damage, since they are local agencies. For this reason, this amendment was also submitted, that the level of traffic in the previous year was taken into account. I don't understand why the amendment has not been accepted, and I urge you once again to consider accepting it, and if you don't accept it, at least in the design of that regulation, to keep an eye on it, because in some of the previous laws we had a license A and a B license, depending on whether the travel organiser is only in the country or abroad, to take care of it, so that small local travel agencies and travel organizers can function.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46775	A 30-second mandated representative of the parliamentary group has been used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Arsen Djuric and Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Arsen Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46776	We have submitted an amendment to Article 16 relating to Article 55, where a new position of 2 is added to Article 55, which reads: "The licence will not be taken away from the travel organiser if an agreement has been reached with the passenger on compensation for damages according to the contract and the general conditions of travel and the refund of money within the legal period. "In some previous laws there was such a defined rule. I think this amendment should be accepted. I do not understand why it stands in reason for not accepting this amendment to cause legal uncertainty, because accepting this amendment would avoid some long-standing expensive court proceedings, and the essence would be achieved. So if, for some reason, the travel organizer who caused damage to the passenger and compensated for that damage within the legally foreseen time limit, then the essence of the law was fulfilled, the passenger was calmed down, they agreed on mutual satisfaction and I think this amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46777	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 18th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the follow-up group, Forward Serbia. The amendment was also accepted by the government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism. We don't have a report from the Legislative Committee, so it's the subject of a search. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19, the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46778	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, we have tried this amendment to amortise the dissatisfaction of the Association of the Bane of Serbia, as well as the Association of specialized institutions for the Prevention of Disabilities and Rehabilitation. Namely, this draft law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act, which, I repeat, is written in deep illegality and without any single day of public debate, has provided that health institutions providing services to their users, which organise the stay and provision of prevention, treatment and rehabilitation services, can provide accommodation and nutrition services to third parties on the basis of the approval of the Minister and with a period of validity until one year. What did you do that way? You have reduced the level of specialised health institutions to general hospitals, with these first ones in their name having a special prefix. You also took away the business of special hospitals that fill 50% of their capacities through the Republic Health Insurance Office, and another 50%, which makes up about 3500 beds, is on the free market. With this legal solution, you risk the survival of special hospitals, which have been rarely generators of tourism development and Serbia's spa. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the fact is that without medicine, there is no spa, and you are risking Serbia's spas with this kind of proposal, and only because Mr. Goran Petkovic evaluated and the minors were afraid that special hospitals would take a job in hotels. That's what you said in a recent interview. In a market game, he wins better, better quality, and if these are special hospitals, I don't think he should worry about any civil servant. In the end, what's most important, this is how you endangered the employment relationship of more than 2500 nonmedical workers just because you ignored two facts. One is that planning the business of any economic operator for a period of no more than a year, as you have predicted by this bill, carries a high risk with difficult foreseeable consequences, and another fact is that the Ministry of Health, as the founder of special hospitals, has already given them consent to hosting. As a member of the Committee on Trade and Tourism, I know that there have been some shifts and compromises in terms of these approvals and deadlines. I support and welcome these compromises, but it remains unclear why and why the profession and the public have to push you against the wall to turn these demands into legislation?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46779	45 seconds of MP time was used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Đuro Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46780	On behalf of the PUPS Parliamentary Group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 20 amending Article 60 of the existing Tourism Act. Why did I take it? For the reason that I think that the change in this article in 60th is kind of a discrimination against these special hospitals dealing with rehabilitation and treatment, because they get the impression that they want to separate themselves from other catering operators, because they are the only ones who need to seek the approval of the minister so that they can deal with this part of their activity. I think these special hospitals are institutions of sui generis. Why? Because they are neither clean hospitals, nor are they exclusively tourist facilities dealing with only some narrow areas of tourism. As we know, there are about 7,000 beds in these hospitals in Serbia and about half of them in the hospital with the Republic Health Services, and the other half remain to be offered the market. I have to say, because I have some insight into it, if it wasn't for that possibility, I think these special hospitals would fall on such a low branch that it would be just one improvisation, there wouldn't be any real relationship to treatment and rehabilitation. I know that the government has given its amendment, after all the amendments that have been submitted to me and some other amendments, to which the whole situation is partially respected, and one high subjectivism that has been in certain provisions of this article has been avoided, and on this side I support it, but I think that this provision that remains to be granted this approval for one year's work was up to one year, and now it's from one year, it's actually a little bit of a cartoon of everything. What can be done in a year to make it work properly? I have to say, in the sound of all this, there's a feeling that in some way you want to get past it completely, whether there are such hospitals. Without such hospitals, without such a way of functioning the spa as a spa, there is actually no health tourism. How this health tourism should take place. These spas were named after the fact that it has always been done and treated. It is not enough that we have only mineral water, clean air, walking, nature, but it is necessary to find that element of health and health care that will enable that everything that happens there can happen. I think there should be great efforts to keep these special hospitals, because this has been shown in Banja Koviljaca, Vranjačka Banja and Soko Banja, etc., should continue to cultivate and develop because they have indeed gained a high level of this provision of services, both in health and in tourism. What the Republic Health Institute gives, from 1,900 to 2,900 dinars, for a white-day is not enough for these institutions to function and work, whether they are these baths, where water is concerned, whether they are so-called. formerly, as we popularly called them, air spas. I would ask that this matter be more and more seriously combined with what we have said and the adoption of a plan for Serbia's development, where much has been said about tourism, and thus to overcome this one problem. Otherwise, we can fall into an ungrateful situation so these institutions can question whether they can exist at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46781	Used two minutes and 50 seconds of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group. National MP Natasa Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46782	Mrs. Comic, this may be the most important amendment, if we can conclude one now. In fact, first the SRS parliamentary group, which Mr Marko Milenkovic is about to speak of, submitted an amendment. Then Mr. Peric's amendment followed, and this morning the amendment of the Committee on Trade and Tourism. For what? Because the biggest problem has arisen, Mr. Secretary of State and the people of the ministry, just in early September of this year, when a joint meeting of Serbia's health centres and the Serbian Chamber of Commerce was held, it seems to me, on 8 or 9 September, where they concluded that the adoption of amendments and additions to this law, as they said, is non-transparent, because those who need to use this law, or serve it in providing their services, cannot do so in the right way. This health tourism, however much you have demoted it for the past ten years with your disastrous rule and the rule of Tomica Milosavljevic – here, already, this term in line, has been at the place of health minister for the past ten years – health tourism in Serbia is also at the price in the world. For what? Because we have top experts and doctors in our country, and cardio surgeons and eye surgeons and all the ones that make a lot of people come to our hospitals and our Banish and climate places to heal. Banska and climate places in Serbia are abandoned and we, I guess that's the final order, after so many years we need to have a special law, you'll probably agree, and these people who don't have the opportunity to speak, and they're doing it tightly, because Mrs. Minister just isn't in this topic. We have to have a special law on Banjski and climate places, and there's no need to find it in the general tourism law at all. What did they think of now? Because they saw that the pressure of people employed in these institutions, which Mr. Peric spoke of, is extremely high and that they will not tolerate the dictatorship of the Serbian government, that every year they must go and beg. Otherwise, the Republic Health Insurance Office, Mr. Pericic, you would probably have to know, for almost all diseases in Serbia, it is mainly defined by three, possibly four, spas that users can get. Only if people live in the AP Vojvodina area, it may be extended with some spa there, but believe me, I know that, the Republic Health Institute for Human Health, for example, that suffers from degenerative alterations of the spinal column or have had a discus-hernia operation, etc., do not allow these people to be treated, except sometimes in the Selters spa, in Ribarska, for example, which is far known and which has a trained staff and which simply helps people in that situation, but sends them to Sokobanju. Is that normal? So that it wouldn't all happen and that they wouldn't have to depend on both the Ministry and the Government, we asked it to be four years. But when we, if we don't believe at all, under this authority, get the law on bananas and climate places, when there's a lot more money for the recovery of these institutions, then users, unfortunately, too, to those who are sick, but, well, a lot of people go clean prevention for, doctors know that, in these bananas and climate places, it's going to be much better. People there with the greatest enthusiasm, believe me, I've been to both Ribarska and Sokobanja recently, with very small incomes, or salaries, provide amazingly, as people, as humanists, from nurses, through doctors, almost a four-hour surveillance of patients who use so-called patients. It's a white day. But on the other hand, you can see that the government of the Republic of Serbia, and that's what you've seen, as part of the ruling coalition, is not taking care of them. Now, counterpart Marko Milenkovic will explain what kind of abuse finally came from a committee I wasn't on this morning, but Mr Nikolic, although it is the right of the Committee, should have been before, and not now as it is said at five after twelve, collegiate, so that as members of the Committee on Trade and Tourism, you can tell us that your intention, as chairman of the Committee, is to correct this anomaly in the Government's bill of law. Anyway, and these three years you've proposed it doesn't make any sense, because the government's term of office probably takes four years, so if you're asking for permission, then why wouldn't it be for four years?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46783	Five minutes and ten seconds of the parliamentary group were used. National MP Nikola Krpić has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46784	Dear President, allow me, as a PUPS MP from the Royals, to advocate that what Mr. Babić and Mr. Peric have submitted to the amendments, I believe that they are extremely realistic, because we have a large number of patients going to the spa, there is also the fight against sterility and our repair of the demographic situation, when it comes to the Matarusk Banja, when it comes to Vranjska Banja, when it comes to other spas, Bogitovačka, for neurological diseases. In these spas, as a doctor I speak now and as an MP, there is a huge number of high-level people who provide health care. The equipment is worth millions, and I really think that the government has made this decision too quickly. With that in mind, I advocate that these amendments be accepted and that in the voting day all MPs vote for something like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46785	Two minutes of MP time was used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. This amendment was not accepted by the Committee on Trade and Tourism. People's MPs ask which government? The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Kasalovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Kasalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46786	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, proposed by Article 20, amending Article 60 of the current Tourism Act, was the subject of a debate at the Committee's session, with the participation of a number of experts in this area. In view of this debate today in particular, this article has proved to be quite justified in one part of the useful. The government seems to have drawn certain conclusions and tried to resolve in a certain way the observed objections to the proposal for this Article by its amendment, namely today to the amendments of the Trade and Tourism Committee, in a certain way. However, I do believe that this amendment, which was submitted by the SPS-JS Parliament Club, whose signator, is now a more concrete and better solution than was offered and corrected to the amendments. I said that at the meeting of the Committee on Trade and Tourism today. I can accept what the government has drawn conclusions and tried to improve this member, but I cannot fully agree and accept the government's argument that my amendment refuses, that it is largely different from the solutions it will offer to its amendment government. If that's the case, and now I'm proposing to the government to accept this amendment of mine, if it's not very different. For what? The point is, however, different, because the essence of our amendment is that all health institutions dealing with prevention, treatment and rehabilitation are placed in an equal position, regardless of the form of ownership. In the proposed amendment, this is clearly stated in paragraph 2, where there is no indication that this obligation to obtain approval exists for budgetary users as well. I'm talking about this part, and it's already mentioned Vrnjačka Banja, Banja Koviljača, Sokobanja, Bujanovska Banja, Sierra Banja, etc. There are about five, five, and a half thousand beds on the market and they are not in the health insurance network. They are covered by the proposed provisions of this article, as well as the proposed amendments adopted today by the Trade and Tourism Committee. The request and what seems justified is that all these institutions want to work and operate on the market and with these available capacities under the same conditions as other centres, regardless of the ownership structure. Here, budget users are placed in a different position by this draft law, but also by the amendment of the Committee. These are logical requirements and this amendment, which we have proposed, provides, in contrast, one more time from the amendments and the Committee, and also the Government's proposal, which explicitly states in its position 2. that if the entities are budget users, they are obliged to obtain the approval of the Minister for the provision of accommodation and nutrition services to third parties. This authorisation was in the original version for a period of up to one year. All the multi-angle observations that have been made are respected that this is indeed an insufficient period, because it offers neither the possibility of planning nor any kind of continuity in the work. We believe, and my amendment states, that this approval should, which would be given to everyone, for these purposes to apply with a period of at least three years and perhaps more. We think that in this way one continuity in the work and the possibility of planning for the longer term of work of these institutions would really be possible. If things are so really set and they are, there is justifiably a question of what are the additional conditions that the Government is going to prescribe, and for which budget users will have to get that approval with a deadline of up to three years? Is there any possibility that these conditions will be so rigorous that they will not be able to meet, that is, to question the ability of these rehabilitation centres to operate well? I certainly hope that the government will still consider, try to find a way to accept this amendment to the SPS-JS parliamentary club, but in any case it will not reach for any additional conditions that can lead to these centres being in trouble with their business, because they are, above all, many of them, engines of tourism development in many spas. Indeed, there is no reason not to place these available capacities in the role of tourism development. This amendment offers such an opportunity, and I am sure that it would ensure that these institutions work at full capacity and, of course, with regard to future privatisation, that these institutions, the owner of which is the state to take care of them, have a better value both in a later period and in a country benefiting from the better value of these institutions themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46787	Five minutes and 30 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure, on Article 20 of the amendment, were submitted by the Committee on Trade and Tourism. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dejan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46788	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister, is correct, the Committee has submitted an amendment to Article 20, and this amendment is the fruit of agreements and talks with the Bani Association, with the Association of Rehabilitation Centres, with the Association of Special Institutions for Rehabilitation. We don't talk to birds on the Trade and Tourism Committee, we talk to those people and associations who are interested in this law. Miss Jovanovic, if you had come to the Committee, you would have seen how and why we have submitted that amendment right now. We on the Committee are talking to those who are interested in this law, allowing them to affect the changes in the law, achieving a basic democratic rule and a fundamental democratic principle that citizens and associations of citizens affect the changes in the law. We have very precise, or more precisely defined the possibility that healthcare institutions can handle services, i.e. to provide services to third parties. Of course, those health institutions that meet technical, economic and market conditions, creating such a chance for health institutions to make more efficient use of their capacities and to employ as many people as possible. We have also defined by the amendment that the approval of ministers, which is needed by those health institutions financed from the budget, is not until one year, as defined by the amendments and amendments of the law, but rather three years, considered very important for long-term planning. Why three years? Just because the associations and spas and rehabilitation centres that we have spoken with are such a suggestion, and we will agree that they are more professional than me and you, Mrs Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46789	Four minutes of MP time was used. National MP Natasa Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46790	I'm using replica rights...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46791	Use the time of the parliamentary group, you have no right to replicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46792	All right, then, according to the Rules of Procedure, because you didn't finally pay attention, my colleague Nikolic, as chairman of the Committee, violated the dignity of the National Assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46793	National MPs, counterpart Nikolic cannot harm the dignity of the National Assembly. Article 103(1) states clearly that the word "infringing the Rules of Procedure" is only obtained if the MP points to a breach of the Rules of Procedure by the Chairman, so I ask you to correct yourselves and continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46794	You did it, Mrs. Comic. You spoke with colleagues Novakovic and Odalovic, and you did not follow and pay attention to why I report to the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46795	People's MPs, you can't make claims about other people's private lives, in this case you've done it, so I'm warning you to take the same argument...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46796	You just want to tell me whose private life?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46797	I'd like to ask the People's MP, Ms. Radet, not to throw it away. It's also a violation of the Rules of Procedure. It is unacceptable to believe that you have the right to state the view that the way I listen makes it impossible for me to hear and what MP Dejan Nikolic said, since you cannot know that. You have no right to be defamation of that kind.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46798	Then I'll pick up the time we have as a parliamentary group. Can't do that, either?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46799	Your will to give a warning measure is unconstitutional, so I am giving you a warning measure, Article 103 of Section 7, for abuse of the right to order a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Your time to talk about the amendment is at your disposal, but I can't make it more clear than I normally do the Rules of Procedure to say that we all have rights, but we all have obligations and we all have equal obligations and equal rights, no one else, no one less. If you want to talk about the amendment now, go ahead. No, I don't. ) The National MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond together submitted the 20th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Marko Milenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46800	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment I have submitted refers to the change in the time period of approval of the Minister to health institutions providing prevention, treatment and rehabilitation services, and accommodation and nutrition. In the amendment, the government proposed that the approval be valid until one year, while we proposed that the period of validity of that approval be changed from one year to four years. The government's explanation for not accepting this amendment states that the government has submitted an amendment to the same article, which regulates those issues in a way that is not very different from the way I suggested. I think it is high time for the government to break the practice of sending amendments to the Assembly on any draft law or amendment of the law, because it only says that it is unseriously and unsuspectingly preparing and preparing these proposals, and to end the practice of not adopting our amendments in order to adopt the amendment of the Government, which has, in fact, been slightly transformed into our amendments. That's what counterpart Nikolic just tried to justify, to justify what the parliamentary majority did on the board this morning, but there's no excuse for that. The amendment I submitted was dated here on October 27th, and the Committee today took place and instead of the four years we proposed, it voted for that approval to be valid for three years. The relationship between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and tourism is faithfully witnessed by the fact that today our spas are less visited than before World War II. Hungary had more inflows of foreign exchanges in times of socialism than the former Yugoslavia had of the Adriatic Sea. However, DOS's government obviously means nothing or the Tourism Act may have been an obstacle to the development of tourism, or tourism has been neglected for the past 10 years, as you have strengthened the economy and economy, industry and agriculture, opened factories, employed citizens, implemented European reforms, while citizens were increasingly poor. Now people rightly wonder, when Serbia soon becomes a big dump, what will happen to our waters, probably the same thing as our wells in villages, and about managing our natural resources is not enough to bring just a strategy. You've brought in many strategies and plans that have run out of realisation. What is needed is one responsible government that will first stop the robbery of citizens, and then start the development of tourism and other branches of the economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46801	A minute and 20 seconds of MP time have been used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Arsen Djuric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Arsen Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46802	The Honored Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, also submitted an amendment to Article 20, since it is the 20th most controversial member of the proposed law and has sparked sharp criticism from the professional public, professional associations, and the association of Serbia's spas and the association of specialised health institutions. In this respect, Article 20 defines the way and conditions of operations of health institutions dealing with prevention, treatment and rehabilitation and the provision of third party accommodation and nutrition services. In this article, Article 2 states that if the entities referred to in Article 1 are budgetary users, they must obtain the approval of the minister to provide services to third parties. That approval, as proposed by the law, would be valid until one year. It's two very controversial things in this law. In this way, these health institutions are placed in an unequal position compared to private health institutions. What I'm saying is that these special hospitals, or RH centres, are not classical budget users, do not receive personal income or funds for investments from the Republic budget, they already have a contract with the Republic Health Insurance Office for a number of beds and for provided accommodation, food and health services. They are not budget users, but simply invoices to the Republic Service for the services they perform, and the second part of the accommodation capacity is issued to third parties. In case these institutions do not receive approval, they would certainly close down in a few years, destroy, because it is a basic source of income for these institutions. The period of validity of this solution – up to one year – is an extremely inappropriate short term. So, up to a year, it could be three months, and for the longest year. We, in that sense, have submitted the amendment as a parliamentary group, because we do not think long-term planning and business can be implemented if that solution lasts for at least a year. We have submitted an amendment, as a parliamentary group, that this solution lasts for three years, and we have submitted one amendment proposing that there are no restrictions on this solution, i.e. when these institutions are granted third party services, as long as they meet these minimum technical, economic, market and other conditions prescribed by this law and sublaw, that they can carry out this action, i.e. they do not need to extend that solution. Today, the Committee on Trade and Tourism proposed an amendment extending the deadline to three years. So we can be partially satisfied with that amendment. It would be better if there was no time limit.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46803	One minute and 10 seconds of Parliament time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46804	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's been a year and a half since the same high house as the Tourism Act was in May 2009. At that time, the SRS parliamentary group actively participated, as always, in the discussion in principle and in particular, and when it comes to details, to remind you that we then submitted dozens of amendments. I can't understand that right then in that law he's in the field of hospitality in Article 62. The SRS asked that after point 11, point 12 be put in place, how much my memory serves me, and which was then read – performs action according to the law as a businessman. You are now asking that item 12 be placed after point 11. And it reads: it works with the attention of a good businessman. Just tell me what this tourism business is, invests in hotels that will be on Zlatibor, Divchibara, Kopalnik, Frusko Gora or be on a river, without enjoying or not wanting to be a good businessman. It's not going to go into the sun on its own, and I think my explanation of why you should delete this point 12 that you've inserted, is that the proposed point of the flossula that basically means nothing, absolutely doesn't mean anything. You did not give an explanation, he says – the amendment is not accepted for reasons of legal-technical discrepancies. This doesn't really make sense, you're downplaying those who deal with tourism, I mean especially privates.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46805	Ten seconds of MP time was used. National MP Dragan Shormaz has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46806	I don't know what the government's intention is, but I'm going to give you an example, exactly why I think it should stand. You know why? I'm going to give you an example, right here in Belgrade, a very good example, why someone would really have to deal with it that way and keep an eye on it as it says in the law, is not the case with us. The "Yugoslavia" hotel, privatised a few years ago, until today those who bought it did not invest one in working as a hotel, and Belgrade's accommodation facilities are missing, and they privatised the hotel. They bought a hotel. All he does at the hotel "Yugoslavia" is a casino, so it's just a casino. The only ones who got a license under that new law that we passed that it was a 20-mile radius, no one else can hold the casino except for them. They offered 18m euros for the license, according to my information, in a tender of 18m euros, they never paid, those who bought the 18m euros. License expired, no new tender scheduled. Meanwhile, the ones who bought it, so it was a consortium or something, the Slovenians, the Austrians, and in the meantime they sold it to a Greek, and then he didn't invest in a hotel, and he's not acting as a responsible businessman, but he's still holding only a casino. I repeat, Belgrade lacks accommodation capacity and you all know it is a great hotel in a great place, a large hotel that could significantly improve Belgrade's accommodation capacity, which has been attractive to European tourists for the past few years. Why and in what way is such a relationship by those who need to control the privatisation process, so here's an example here at the hotel Yugoslavia? Why does it just work that way? It is also a question for the government and for the minister who is not present here today. Anyway, it obviously doesn't work there. I don't think this provision that the government has written will even force those, and on that side you're right, will make them behave responsibly, but in any case, it's not an excuse to stand up like that, so we have something to call ourselves when they stop acting as responsible as this case is related to the hotel Yugoslavia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46807	Two minutes and 50 seconds spent of five minutes, how much total is available to you in the discussion in particular. The People's MP Milorad Krstin has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46808	I'm sorry, but I think I've been decoded and made clear. Just like this example, as it is now at point 12, it stands -- it works with the attention of a good businessman, and we are in May last year, I said, as I recall, dozens of amendments and this very inserted point of 12 was supposed to be, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, performing the act of law as a businessman. I think this has more weight than what's been put in -- it's doing business with the attention of a good businessman. I can have a lot of attention, and I can be a bad businessman, but if I do it by law, then it can't come to this. I'm convinced by what you mentioned, no one asked them for money.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46809	Used a minute of MEP time. Anyone else want a word? You used the time of the parliamentary group, you didn't get the right to a replica. People's MP, please consult a member of the Rules of Procedure, which defines in which cases a replica is obtained. You've been using the MP's time. If and when the MP asks and gets the right to reply, I make it perfectly clear that the name and name of the Messenger of the people and I say, the right to reply. In this case, it didn't happen. Consult the stenogram. You've been using the MP's time. Anyone else want a word? MP Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46810	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am very sorry that this serious issue, where in Serbia an extremely large number of people are to be employed and where exceptional inflows are expected, and particularly foreign exchange, we are today discussing the opposition's efforts to correct the law, to bring something in order as much as possible. As usual, the resolution minister is not present again and always sends someone to stay here, right now, I'm very sorry, the Minister of Telecommunications comes to sit on tourism. Where's the minister? The minister's in the campaign. He's doing the campaign. The whole of Serbia is surrounded by billboards of regional centres, regionalisation, etc. Here we are talking about a serious topic, which we want to impose on Serbia, because Serbia has a great chance at tourism, and there is no minister who has usurped tourism and completely destroyed it in recent years and only deals with privatisation. We heard now, the hotel Yugoslavia, the MP spoke. That's what he bought from Mr. Secretary's friend Schlaff. It's that VIP. Now, this Mr. Schlaff has resold, traded casinos, casinos. That God can no longer understand, where to pay, who to be, where to end and how to do it. We're talking about tourism here. Recently, I asked the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Djelic, did you buy Mr. Djelic a hotel, or did you buy Sokobanju? He kept quiet as a bay, and bought safely through a Dutch firm, avoided taxes and obligations with one of the heads of the tobacco mob, who was persecuted. It may not be the man's fault, we'll see, but Mr. Djelic is co-owner of the Sokobanju. I ask him five times - Mr. Djelic, did you buy, he shut up and everybody shut up. That's why we're doing this. Mr. Dinkic today, when he comes here to discuss the subject, where he is a resolution minister, he runs the campaign, he takes care of salaries, raises, pensions, runs world politics. Minister, this is your theme. You must come and sit in front of the MPs. He's talking about roads, no projects. How is he not ashamed? He always says Minister Ilic didn't leave the projects. Well, is he normal, how can he be a concession...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46811	People's MP, I remind you that we respect the Rules of Procedure and that you're talking about the agenda. There's a particulars search on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46812	Mrs. Chomićka, I'm sorry, but let me explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46813	People's MP, you are required to listen as I give you instructions as and how you cannot, taking into account the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, the review in particular, the amendment, which reads: Article 23 paragraph 5, deletes the debate on good businessmen.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46814	I'm using the time of a parliamentary group that hasn't been used.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46815	Please connect the themes. People's MP, whatever time you're using, you're bound to talk about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46816	It is on the agenda that you cannot hold a debate on one serious issue or amendment without the minister's presence.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46817	People's MP, we're trying to hold a debate and that's what it takes for you to talk about the agenda, and I'm going to apply the Rules of Procedure and we're going to succeed.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46818	I ask you once -- is there any technique in Serbia, is there any technique, is there a personality that can once bring a real minister here to sit down to answer some questions? Is the minister ashamed of parliament? Why is the minister running away from the parliament that named him? Does the minister ignore MPs? Is he afraid of this House? What exactly is this about? I suggest, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that in the future there is no point in discussing the points concerning the Ministry of Economy and Equal Regional Development if the minister is not present. We've had enough deputy ministers and others. I asked one logical question, so I asked if some people were mature as ministers. How can someone who has project documentation and knows for the hundredth time that they're going to go to the media and abuse the media and say that there's no project documentation? There's no money...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46819	National MP, with full understanding of dialogue and controversy and criticism of the Minister, please, agenda, discussion in particulars and amendments to Article 23, and link this to respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Now I warn you because the Rules of Procedure apply equally to everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46820	Madam Vice-President of the Assembly, I ask that you honor this House when you chair a topic that is current for the Secretary-General to come and see it and to discuss this matter with them. Why are you protecting something that doesn't match...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46821	People's MP, I'm warning you twice now. The government of the Republic of Serbia, based on the Rules of Procedure that we are deciding on, informs the National Assembly of the authorised representative for the National Assembly session. At the moment, a representative has been authorised, as we are informed by the RS government, Minister Jasna Matic. Please respect the fact that the business conditions for maintaining this session are met and that everything else you try to connect to the agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46822	I know, and is it logical that we discuss a serious amendment, to discuss a serious topic with people who have nothing to do with the subject that's on the agenda?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46823	National MP, such expressions are not allowed, it is forbidden by the Rules of Procedure because you cannot bring judgments on whether anyone in this room has a clue or not. It is your duty to state your position with all the extent of criticism for everything that involves the work of others, but not disqualification and demeaning people, whether they are present in the hall or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46824	Please, I'm not disrespecting anyone. I want to talk about tourism that is extremely important for this country to talk to people who are resolute ministers, talk to people who are responsible for what they are doing, with people who are required under the Ministry Act to introduce a particular ministry and to do certain jobs that are foreseen by law. These people are always running away from this Parliament and we are telling a story here, and so I ask that the Government of the Republic of Serbia start respecting itself and send its ministers here to Parliament to talk here. We cannot discuss tourism anymore, and we cannot destroy the tourist centres in Serbia that have existed for centuries, which we have inherited and which we are obliged to develop, not destroy them. That's why the opposition is trying to improve this law through amendments, to force ministers to do their jobs, but some ministers have grabbed so much that they can't technically function in the vault they have. These days, a large tourist centre such as Kraljevo, which also has Banish tourism, and Goc Mountain and many centres, the government is not paying attention, Madam Vice President. I asked a very interesting question here the other day – did the King deserve to get some government money to start that part of Serbia? Yes, it is. Today, I calculated quickly that the donations and funds that have arrived to fix what the earthquake has currently destroyed in accounts of about two million euros. That the government took the VAT to 2m euros, and gave 50% of what it took, is for the government a big business, an earthquake in the King. She's making money on it. She's not going back there. How are we going to fix the Matharus bath? How are we gonna fix Goch? How Goc is going to develop in tourism if we have now filled it with people whose houses are broken down and not let it work and perform its function for which it is intended, and to make people houses that have been destroyed. To show one security and stability. So there are a lot of problems here to talk about. Please take a pen, and calculate how many people he has given for the King and how much the government of VAT has taken. She took more than she gave. I repeat, the resolution minister must come once these topics are discussed, if he is not afraid of this. If he's afraid, he doesn't belong in the government. I don't want to discuss with Madame, Miss, I don't know what she is, Matic as Minister. I have great respect and respect for her, but she has nothing to do with this subject. When the minister arrives, we will open a serious debate on this subject. You, Mrs. Comic, please, in the future, make an effort as part of the ruling coalition not to let the ministers run away from their resolutions, but to discuss with MPs the issues, the laws on the agenda and the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46825	Ten minutes of time used by the president of the parliamentary group. I fully agree with you on the obligations that all members of the government have towards the National Assembly. MP Dejan Nikolic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46826	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as an MP from Sokobanja, I responsibly claim that Sokobanja is not and will never be for sale, so no one can buy Sokobanja. I will never, as an MP from Sokobanja, allow such talk to be made about Sokobanja in the congregation. Sokobanja is the leader of Banja tourism in Serbia. What is Sokobanja – the tourist flower of Serbia. Controversy makes more than a million overnight stays a year with over 100,000 tourists and I will never allow Sokobanja to talk. It is true that Sokobanja is at the top of the tourist board. It is true that this tourism summit in Serbia is still low and I want to talk about it, because together we have to work to make Serbia's spas competitive on the international European market. That's what I want to talk about, and that's what I was talking about today. Everything else with nonsense, but nonsense is always an argument for those who don't have facts, who don't deal with those facts.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46827	A minute and 10 seconds of MP time have been used. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic submitted together to the 27th amendment. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46828	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since our amendment is to Article 27. I would like to say in favour of what we discussed earlier that we have always wanted to be constructive and to thank the government for having come to an understanding of our amendment, accepted it and made this member more quality. It is that modest contribution that we have made in our work to all the proposals of the law and shown that as an opposition parliamentary group we want to be constructive and useful to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46829	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Gordan Rajkov submitted to the 38th Amendment. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 44 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Ambassador Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46830	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 44, which is the area of hunting tourism. Tourism is an activity that requires a high standard of state, province and ultimately local self-government. Only then can tourism come out and run its circle. Unfortunately, as a state, you brought tourism into the bonsai mouseger system. I come from Srem, i.e. from Fruska Gora and all the elemental aliens we have, but we don't have a development plan. We have all this in the field, but we do not have a strategy for tourism development, or we could develop not only in Srem but also in all areas in RS territory and beyond. It is about rural tourism, hunting tourism, mountain tourism, religious tourism, Banjska, weekend tourism, historical tourism, and who knows which other tourism could be listed in the beauty of tourism. This hunting tourism regulates this article in 44th and we suggest that this sentence - performs action with the attention of a good businessman, already my colleagues have elaborated this sentence, how to be a good businessman when the state does not allow it, by its doing does not allow the economy to develop in this positive direction, both tourism and all that is related to the economy. I don't want to comment on how well you know where it is and what it is. I think this sentence too – it works with the attention of a good businessman is probably drawn from the context of Cardell – further directions to the development of the political system, and that is why we want this sentence not to be here, that is, to be as we have suggested.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46831	In accordance with Article 27, and given that the amendment currently under investigation, as well as the amendment which was subject to the investigation, the amendment submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Krstin in Article 23(5), is deleted, and the observation that it is legal and technical inconsistencies, as the Government said, does not exist in Article 23(5). Unfortunately, this amendment is the subject of a search, with my apologies for the fact that the Legislative Committee could not hold a session, otherwise this amendment would have been rejected and would not have been the subject of a search, as well as an amendment that reads - Article 44(4) - is deleted, as Article 44 has two positions. Unfortunately, these amendments must be the subject of a specific search, and I am obliged by article 27 to inform the National Assembly. The reasons for not holding a session of the Legislative Committee are the sudden illness and prevention of the chairman of the Legislative Committee, MP Vlat Ratkovic, who meets the end of the healing process, and the inability to hold the committee in a different way, except with the presence of the president. Anyone else want a word? People's MPs earn – there's a deputy. The vice president did not want to take part in the session of the Legislative Committee. Would you like a name and a last name and a note about it? Aging on the consistency of working bodies also implies my obligation to inform the National Assembly that unfortunately we are discussing two amendments that should not be searched for two reasons, the first thing that MPs have submitted amendments against the Rules of Procedure to the views of non-existent members. They received the Rules of Procedure, and they must be given the right to explain themselves by the Rules of Procedure, and the lack of a session of the Legislative Committee on which both amendments, and the People's MP Vitomir Plužarevic and the People's MP Milorad Krstin, were rejected. Member of the 45th Amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 51st Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Marko Milenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46832	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to article 51 to add words to the tourist household – ethno-sela. The government wrote in its explanation that it does not accept the amendment due to legal and technical discrepancies, which is in line with the government's escape in the full text of these amendments to the terms – the ethno-selic that we tried to put into the Tourism Act. In fact, such traditional-style villages, which reflect the culture and historical heritage of our climate, can also be so interesting to tourists, and the deficit in the budget would no longer be covered by new Serbian citizens' responsibilities and the rise in external debt. There were failed ideas in the territory of the heroic Toplician County...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46833	Excuse me, MP. I ask the People's Parliament to keep Verice Radet from throwing or disrupting the order of the Assembly. I warn you to act against the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and to stop the conduct prohibited by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Continue, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46834	In the territory of the heroic Toplician district, there was the idea of a failed attempt to form an ethno-sela, and this does not surprise us much because we know how much healthy drinking water from the democratically destroyed factory Milan Toplica is going to the Toplica River, and how much water from Lukovska Banja is also going to Toplica. Now the citizens of Toplice, especially Kursumli, are wondering if this may not be due to legal and technical discrepancies, the Kursumli bath, with the top mineral water and rehabilitation centre which is closed, or perhaps the dark legacy of the 1990s drove the Dutch to invest in the Lukovska Banje and make greenhouses for the production of many species of the most healthy vegetables, even in the winter period, because the heating problem would be easily solved with the help of geothermal waters that reach temperatures and up to 80 degrees. Did anyone from the government even think about how ready the world is to pay for healthy food, especially in winter, and how much that export would fill the budget, or how much the government doesn't care about investment where it should invest, to make it 100 times back, but is only interested in direct money from selling state-owned enterprises with monopoly, both NIS and EPS? I can't imagine how that money would be spent if all the privatisations, loans and loans so far had neither been completed, nor had Kanal Dunav-Tisa-Dunav been completed, nor had a factory been opened, nor had a larger bridge been built.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46835	Forty-five seconds have been used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46836	Mrs. Comic, you just made some criticism about these amendments. I am looking at Article 23, paragraph 5, there is, after point 11, point 12 is added, which reads: "Property with the attention of a good businessman". The government did not say in its opinion that this was the kind of legal-technical discrepancy you were talking about. So, Article 23. The bill has its position 5. And our amendment that we have submitted was correct, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In order not to complicate these things, I appeal to Article 27. Rules of Procedure. I think it's just one lapus, that you got the wrong information about Mr. Krstin's amendment. I'm only saying this for the sake of the record and for the sake of the public to know that we're making such a mistake, to write an amendment to an attitude that doesn't exist in the bill, that can't happen with us. Now we've made an insight. There's a fifth attitude. The amendment was in line with the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Christin talked about it. The government has embarked on considering the amendment and this legal-technical discrepancy concerns this – the attention of a good businessman. That's what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46837	My remarks refer to Article 44, and you are right if I have connected Article 44, to which the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarević, then it is possible that the reason for the legal and technical non-compliance is the reason for the second amendment, not the first. In any case, there remains an explanation why the Legislative Committee has not been maintained. National MP Arsen Djuric submitted to the 51st amendment. Does anyone want a word? MP Arsen Djuric has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46838	The Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 51, which concerns Article 111 of the applicable law. Namely, the member is defined as the list of taxpayers for the payment of the tourist fee. It says that the payment bonds of tourist fees are also natural persons who provide accommodation services to tourists in the facilities of domestic work (house, apartment and room) and rural tourist household. I suggested adding a comma here and adding "as well as the owners of villas, apartments and holiday houses in the tourist resort". Namely, these natural persons who provide accommodation and food services to tourists in their households categorize their facilities, or their accommodation units, pay residence tax, pay income tax, and they are subject to the control of tourist inspection, budgetary inspections, or tax inspections at local self-government. So, it regularly comes to them in control of various inspections, while the owners of the villa, apartments in tourist centres, mostly 90% of the owners of these apartments issue their facilities, without either performing categorisation, or paying residence tax, or income tax, and there is a big problem in controlling the issue of this type of facility. That's what I'm telling you as a man with years of experience in this area who faces these problems on the ground on a daily basis. I'll give you an example of Zlatibor, where there are over 4,000 apartments whose owners don't live on Zlatibor. I suppose the situation in Vrnjačka Banja, Sokobanja and some other tourist centers is similar. More than 90% of these facilities are issued without categorization being carried out, do not pay any obligations either to local self-government or to the state. There is no possibility that in one building, where there are 30 or 50 apartments, the inspection can carry out control of it, so that the subject of control is only natural persons who have done the categorization. They already pay residence tax and tax and are now covered by the payment of tourist fees, and these owners of apartments that do not live there do not pay any obligations so far and will not be covered by payments or tourist fees. I suggested that it be possible for local self-government units to cover them too by paying a tourist fee because in this way local self-government could make any revenue on that basis that they had not so far. I urge you to reconsider this amendment and accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46839	45 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 52 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Marko Milenkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46840	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am proposing that the funds made from a tourist fee of 80% of the income for local self-government, whose territory has been charged to 90%, and that the remaining 20% that go to the Republic of Serbia's budget be reduced to 10%. The amendment is absolutely in agreement with the needs of the citizens and with the decentralisation of which the parties in power are declared. The position of the SRS is that decentralisation can and must be implemented, and the only way it can be done is by strengthening local self-government by giving additional rights, which again cannot be implemented if these same local self-governments, and in the vast majority of them are you in power, reducing transfers and reducing other revenues and compensation, while this Government is doing just that. In addition, the water resources of Banje, Kursumlijska and Lukovska Banja, and the spring of mineral water in Vica near Prokupje have not been used. I remind you that these multi-purpose medicinal waters cure the kidneys, organs for cheating, skin disease, peripheral blood vessels diseases, rheumatism, gout, some gynological diseases, sterility, and improve the condition after bone fractures and surgical interventions on the bone-joint system. The strategy of using these waters could be a valuable factor and the first step of economic recovery in overcoming the multiannual financial crisis and the fall of our citizens' standards. The quality of these waters, which have high oligo minerality and alkalineity, is witnessed by a number of analyses of eminent world institutions from Italy, France, Germany, Greece. In addition to being used as healthy drinking water in intact nature, with clean air, they are very effective in medical treatments combined with mud. I remind you that France, as one of the great powers of Banja tourism, in this kind of tourism incassises more than the Azurna coast. Finally, the whole world has noticed the beauty and importance of the Devil's Varoshi, and it seems to me that she has not received adequate treatment from the Serbian government, and given the number of values of the Toplician district, I am asking the question – can the Toplice residents expect a more serious approach from the Government of the Republic of Serbia in order to solve their existential problems?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46841	Used one minute of MEP time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 56 of the amendment. The Committee on Trade and Tourism has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since this is the last amendment to be filed in the search for details, I ask – does anyone want a word, who has not used his right or his time? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 12th point of the agenda: – PROPOST OF THE LAW OF THE LAW OF THE LAW OF THE LAW OF THE LAW OF THE LAWS OF THE LAWS OF THE LAWS OF THE LAWS OF THE LAWS OF THE LAWS OF THE PUBLISH OF THE PUBLIC OF THE PUBLIC AND THE OSIGURANT OF THE OBLIGATION OF THE INSTITUTIONS (in particulars) You have received amendments submitted on the proposal of the Law by the Members of the peoples: Tomislav Niko Knezević, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladović, Boris Pović, Božar Žović, Milić Pokrić, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Včeta Toljić, Včeta Tošković, Dragan Čalić, Dragan Čalić, Zalić, Zalić, Zaljan Žalić, Zaljan Žarić, Zaljan Žarić, Zalić, Žarić, Žarić, Žarić, Žirić, Žarić, Žirić, Žirić, Žirić, Žirić, Žradić, Začić, Začić, Žirić, Žirić, Zažarić, Žirić, Žirić, Zač. You have received a report from the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On the 1st amendment, a group of 21 MPs from the Prosperity Group submitted Serbia and MP Nemanja Sarovic to the same text. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46842	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a law that has in fact only two members and concerns employment, i.e. changing the place of the National Employment Service. What's a little strange for SNS, is that, with all the problems we have in the field of employment, we've come into a situation to put all of this in a different way, that it's the most important problem for this government, for the Ministry, where it's going to be, where it's going to be, where it's going to be, the National Employment Service. I would like to remind you that we currently have, according to some different data, but about 750,000 unemployed, that in the previous year, a year and a half, in fact since the start of this crisis, we have lost about 200,000 jobs, that we have a very large number of employees working in bankrupt companies, in restructuring, possibly even in liquidation, that there are some 30,000 workers, in circulation is this figure that I have managed to recognize, and that only about 50% of the working population is working in Serbia today. With all the problems we have in the field of employment, there is little understanding by the government to repair the situation. Most often, the solutions offered by the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development are very modest and mean very modest assistance and a small number of new jobs. Unfortunately, today we've come to the situation that out of the millions of 800 and some thousand employees the most, in fact, one good part works in the public sector, there's a large number of directors, for some 650 thousand, as I've managed to add up the orientation all day. A large number, over 400,000 works in the state administration, and only about 300-350 thousand employees we have in the processing industry, where a new value is created, something we should live on, something we should be exchanging with the world. In addition, we have an extremely bad situation, and when the salaries are employed, that we are already going to compete with Macedonia, that these salaries are about 300 euros, to catch up with some countries that have been private incomes, with incomes, with GDP far below us. I mean China first. Some analyses suggest that in the next few years we may be even with China in salaries. It may be a motive for the economy ministry to promote Serbia as a country where labour is cheaper than China. These are all indicators that point to the big problems we have in employment. There are great regional differences. I'm taking this opportunity to remind you that we have, say, 600,000 employees in Belgrade. According to the National Employment Service records, 96,000 unemployed. Let's say, in my Pomorava County, the relationship is a little bit more 1:6.5. In my Pomorava County, you have 53,000 employees, and 27 thousand unemployed. So ratio 1:2. This indicates how many employees there are in Belgrade, in centres such as Belgrade and Novi Sad, possibly in municipalities that are gravitating towards the road route. So it's three times harder to get to work today. A similar situation is similar in almost all regions in the interior, worse than in Belgrade. For example, the unemployment rate is 13.7 in Belgrade, in Novi Sad 17.2 and in Pomorava County 33.7%. Belgrade is not in fact in terms of the number of employees, nor did it feel this crisis that is still going on, regardless of what convinces us it is going through. While, for example, my Seamen had over 7,000 lost jobs in the enterprise of over 12,000 lost jobs. So, it takes a much more serious plan to get out of this crisis and to increase the number of employees, a plan to eventually reach that full-time employment, although it is far from this perspective. All this means is that the grey economy is increasingly present in Serbia, that one third of today's employees are estimated to be working in the gray economy, that labour inspection is very little on the ground, that the judicial authorities have no understanding of all the problems in the field of work, that very often no salaries are paid, that they are in the second plan, that the state's claims are always in the first place. When you add it all together, when you are aware and, let's say, we get as much information from the government as you have in Serbia today that you have no family in which you have any employees or any number of employees who are helping other members of your families with their incomes, you can look at a real picture when it comes to the field of employment, when it comes to the problem of new jobs. It's really from the SNS position, with all this data I've given, it's amazing that you're dealing with the site, the headquarters of the National Employment Service. It is obvious that it is political interest, the desire for a political party to prove by such cheap arguments to the citizens of Serbia, that it has the will and desire to correct the situation in this area, and that this legal solution really will not benefit anyone. Perhaps my neighbour Kragujevci with a few hundred jobs, but it is a drop in the sea compared to what is needed throughout Serbia today, which is also needed by the Shumadian County.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46843	Four minutes and 55 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Aleksandar Pejčić and Tomislav Ljubenović submitted to the 1st amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Tomislav Ljubenović has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46844	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment has been proposed that the headquarters of the National Employment Service be relocated to Leskovac. The government's reasoning for refusal is extremely inappropriate, because it stands in reason – for even regional development, if we look at regional development, the Jablan County is on the last scale. If we look at the explanation you gave -- underdeveloped municipality and region, then I can tell you another piece of information, that Leskovac was considered one of the medium-developed cities of SFRY. Just as the DOS arrived since 2000, Leskovac has come to this scale underdeveloped but highly underdeveloped areas. This city, with its entire industrial infrastructure, has come into a situation that has an extremely large number of unemployed. Further arguments that are very important are that national employment services should be in Leskovac in the future because there is a very high unemployment rate – 42% or over 22,000 unemployed. Just to be more specific and precise, about 2,000 people have lost their jobs in the last two months, noting that the actual number of unemployed persons is even higher. The reasons for this are: if the unemployed person is late with the application, he is removed from the records and has no right to a certain period of time to apply. After many years of waiting on employment records, many have lost all hope and are left to themselves. Some of them are engaged in agriculture, so they are told that applying for employment services is not a condition for them and their family members to be certified. That's what they're destabilised to sign up with that expert training they acquired during school. Others work black from morning till nightfall, and they can't leave work during the day and go to the National Service to apply. The next argument is the state of business in Leskovec. The number of failed privatisations is high. More and more broken contracts by the Agency for Privatisation with customers due to non-compliance with the purchase contracts. The freshest example is Bulcvat, a former chemical and cosmetic factory called Neven. Because of the weather, I have no more opportunity to expose myself, by ultimately merely realizing that the situation in Leskovac is catastrophic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46845	One minute of the parliamentary group was used. Anyone else want a word? (No) In the same text, MPs Donka Banovic and Lidija Vukicevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46846	Dear fellow Members of the People, this is a very brief bill. In fact, only two members of the Employment and Insurance Act are changed in case of unemployment. I have made an amendment to Article 1, which suggests that the National Employment Service and unemployment insurance change its headquarters, namely that the headquarters of the National Employment Service is no longer in Belgrade but that the headquarters of this service be in Kragujevac. My amendment is that I suggest that the National Employment Service be not in Kragujevac but in Piroth. A colleague before me talked about all the problems that the Jablani County and the town of Leskovac face. I think the problems are similar in the Pyrot County. That is, the Pyrotski and Pcinj district, unfortunately, are among the poorest districts in Serbia. You have four cities in the Pyrot County. White Palanca is the city where the average personal income is the lowest in the entire republic. You don't have any businesses in Dimitrov City that work. People who receive salaries are the people who work in institutions where the salary is received from the budget. Mr Dinkic proposed this law and the following two, which are also proposed here to simply move some state services out of Belgrade, he had a good idea, which is what the assembly majority and the other ministers in the government are allowing him to use, how to use these services that are in the control of his ministry and to serve him well as an excellent springboard for the next elections and for his new party – the United Regions of Serbia. So he had a good sense to take advantage of the function he was in, but he had plenty of resources at his disposal. Mrs Kalanovic, when she explained in the principle of these laws, including this one, said that this would result in indirect decentralisation of employment and greater involvement of human resources from regional centres. Is it enough to move the National Employment Service headquarters from Belgrade to Kragujevac to solve the city's problems and cities around Kragujevac? It's not. Now he is Kragujevac as well as Piroth, as well as Dimitrovgrad, as well as Leskovac, as well as Valjevo. All these cities have branches and these branches of this national service simply failed, thanks to this incompetent government and the economic policy it runs, to help hire the unemployed. And so far, the Kragujevac unemployed have not run to Belgrade at the headquarters of the National Service, so that they intercede to find a job. Otherwise, this is a story for little children. In fact, this is a very serious story because the congregation majority allows the destruction of the public service. The story in the 21st century that when you change the headquarters of some service that this service in that second seat will work better at least is ridiculous. What needs to be done is: strengthen the economy, restore this unfortunate economy, and the National Service is only there as a mediator. I knew you wouldn't accept this, but then I wonder what your criteria were for the National Employment Service to be right in Kragujevac? Why isn't it in Pirot, in Leskovac, if the criteria were the number of unemployed or failed enterprises? So, what criteria did you follow? When I ask the question, and the minister is probably not going to answer me, let me say – because Verko Stevanovic is in the city of Kragujevac, which is the head of a regional party, which has entered the United Regions of Serbia, so you have made it possible for your teammate in those regions. Now, the citizens of Kragujevac, thanks to Verko Stevanovic and thanks to Mladjan Dinkic, will all be employed. So, no matter how much I knew you wouldn't accept this amendment, I just wanted to show you what nonsense this is. So, after the denaciation, demilitarization, decreicalization, you're now on your way to "debegradation". What's to be expected next? That some of your United regions are asking each other when will it be Belgrade's fairer redistribution of funds? It's not right that in Belgrade unemployment is 5%, and in Pirot, it's 35%. So these laws are practically Serbia's "debegradation". There's no question here of deconcentration of power or decentralization. Decentness of power means when you take away one man's concentrated power. What exactly do you show the citizens of Serbia? This is a bear service to you, too. You don't practically show the citizens that power is defocused, but these laws actually show everyone that power and how it concentrates, or that it's concentrated in the hands of one man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46847	Thank you. Four minutes and 35 seconds of MP time were used. The amendments were submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Zoran Popovic in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr Popovic. Excuse me, let's go first, Mrs. Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46848	I'm very glad that a colleague from the county we both come from has the exact same attitude, i.e. that we realized both that what you have submitted here as a bill of two members is a funny, insecure story, which should fool someone, but not the MPs, serious people, so we have stated that Valjevo would be an ideal place because, thanks to this government, thanks to you taking away their county, Valjevo lost this reputation and lost the capital of that district, lost a lot of employees, lost a lot of things, now you're building a dump of dangerous waste, so it would be their turn to now Valjevo to be the center of something. I was asked by my citizens from Valjevo – what would Valjevo get if we were to manage this accidental amendment to make Valjevo the seat of the National Employment Service? Well, that's what I'm going to try to explain, first of all to my fellow citizens, and I don't suppose I'm going to explain it to you, because it's as clear to you as I am that this law is just one farce. So, the employment service has one directorate, two circuit services, 34 branches, Valjevo is one of those 34 branches, 21 offices, 120 stations. Everything is now being resolved by the National Service headquarters moving from Belgrade to Kragujevac. On the other hand, you have another of several very big problems to think about. Thanks to this government and its ability to forget that there is an economy, industry and economy, Serbia is one terribly poor country, a country that is burdened by unemployment. We have a current unemployment rate of 26.10, we have an army of millions of unemployed. Those 200,000 bills, those who lost their jobs thanks to the government's work in a two-year term, I'm counting on that army of millions of unemployed. Then, we have an extremely low standard of living, the extreme poverty line has fallen to 10% of Serbian citizens, each seven is in that category. You have pay gaps, but there is no difference in what this data has come up with, which is that Serbian citizens have the lowest wages in the region. Then, you have, let's say, an example of this is a very good example and an example of what decentralisation is is that in the plant "Lasta" in Valjevo, drivers, professionals have salaries of 23-25,000, and for the same job their colleagues in the same firm in Belgrade have salaries of 40,000. It's an example of what we need to talk about, when we talk about this law and about similar laws. Then we have big regional differences and there's a fact that someone's trying to take advantage of in another way. Now, what's the way you're offering us to overcome all these problems? By hiring this army, you will move the headquarters of the National Service to Kragujevac, and the director will travel from Belgrade, and he will travel from Belgrade, and officials will travel from Belgrade or you will fire them all and hire those from Kragujevac. Let's guess which parties you're going to hire. They bring me colleagues from the DSS, if they're kidding, but what I'm trying to say. I want to say that you will make parallel structures in many places, telling stories about what it is and why it is important for the citizens of Serbia and you will talk about it being decentralisation, that it is in the interests of Serbian citizens. I'll list specific things that will show you that you're wrong. Let's say, if we look at the chronologically. In 2009, the G17 Plus initiative adopted the Regional Development Act. We at the DSS have had a terrible lot of comments on that law, objections, a lot of amendments to that law. It didn't pass. Next year, March 2010. The government adopted a 100m-euro programme to boost even regional development in 2010. Let's guess who was the promoter of this program, of course, Mladjan Dinkic. Chronologically, we move on until May 2010. It was then officially founded -- the United Regions of Serbia. Who are these new parties? They're G17 plus, and some local leaders came to him. To narrow down what I've been saying, Dinkic has all the instruments in his hands. He has legislation, he has money from the budget, money from citizens of Serbia of 100m euros, and he has a new party that has no mortgage on past things they have done and on the affairs they have been doing. Don't forget one more thing, 120,000 euros a month Dinkic gives B92. When we add it all together, then we come to the fact that the story of decentralisation is completely ridiculous. Here is a story of clean political marketing and this political marketing should cost citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46849	Just for the sake of truth, Dinkic doesn't have a new party, but it's not the subject of our debate now. The word is Mr. Zoran Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46850	On the draft law amending the Employment Act and on insurance for unemployment...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46851	Excuse me, Mr. Popovic, another time. The damage to the Rules of Procedure is advertised by Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46852	Mr. Novakovic, I believe this shift is now at the chair table. I'm advocating Article 27, since I believe you'll be able to help, you actually have to, because now you're chairing, to correct your predecessor's mistake...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46853	Did I do it in these two and a half minutes, hurt something by the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46854	Mr. Novakovic, can you hear me out?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46855	That's the only question...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46856	It's the only one.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46857	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46858	We are now in part of the session where we are considering amendments to the amendments to the Employment and Insurance Act in case of unemployment. We have a big problem here, and I have to answer it, and as one of the vice presidents, and as a colleague who has now established it with colleagues of Serbian radicals, Bogutić, or from this, is looking at me astoundingly, I am, believe me, astounded, from this synopsis that I have taken over from the chair chair, that we can follow the amendments, at first read the name of my colleague Dragan Acimovic, is simply gone. Does that mean that when we come up with a review of his amendment or do I have a wrong copy? Today, attitudes are miscounted, so when there is a member with attitudes 4 and 5, the chairman says he is gone and that Serbian radicals have sinned, now find out why there is no Dragan Acimovic and Bogatic, because it is not some insignificant municipality in Serbia, nor is it air. There's a man, safe and sound sitting here, and his amendment is gone. Explain to us, please, whether we are savingly and responsibly performing the functions of the MPs, how the citizens ask us to do so, or whether you are not doing something right, so let the citizens evaluate. The problem today is multiple, whether because we started instead of 12:00, about half past two to work, we are ready to work responsibly, but please, and because of our parliamentary group and colleagues, make this clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46859	I understand, but I have one question. The amendment of MP Acimovic refers to what member? I ask the service to check immediately, without delay, what is the fate of Mr. Acimovic's amendment. Thank you. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure, but thank you for the intervention that was appropriate. Mr. Popovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46860	At the draft law amending the Employment and Insurance Act, I submitted an amendment asking for the headquarters of the National Employment Service from Belgrade to move to Valjevo, as the centre of the Kolubar district. There are a number of reasons that speak in favour of justification and acceptance of this amendment. I will only list some who are not only in conflict with the objectives that you have set before these amendments to the Law, but rather fully agree with them. If we want equal regional development in the future, the headquarters of certain state bodies is necessary to move from Belgrade. The Kolubar County Centre, Valjevo, has all the necessary preconditions that the National Employment Service has its headquarters in it. At the beginning of 2010, according to a statement by the Director of the Valjevska branch of the National Employment Service, the number of unemployed in the Kolubar County is around 12,500. During 2010, the trend in job layoffs continued, making the number of unemployed even higher. In view of the fact that in the Kolubar district, the birth rate is very low and ranges from 7.5 prominences in Ub to 8.9 in Valjevo, and that the average mortality rate by estimates of the Republic Bureau of Statistics is too high and is over 17 prominences, there are all reasons why the state has to do something urgent for the Kolubar County. Let the first step in this is to move the Employment Service to Valjevo, which would at least signal that the state is taking care of them. So I suggest you accept my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46861	Thank you, Mr. Popovic. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MP Radica Jocic also submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46862	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to convince both you and the government representatives to accept this amendment of mine and explain why I have decided to propose by amendment that the NSZ headquarters be in Somboro. First, the Kragujevac in all government plans, in all DOS plans in any aggregate state since 2000 until today...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46863	Mr. Markovic, I'm sorry to interrupt, but your amendment doesn't mention Sombor, it's the Srbobran.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46864	You didn't hear, I said Srbobran. You've been a Kragujevac since 2000. You've promoted them, and they're no longer hungry valleys, now they're half-hungry valleys, but you've planned to make 200,000 cars there next year. I don't know where we're going with all these cars, though, but I think there's a need to pay attention to even development and other cities. So, Kragujevac will become a locomotive in Šumadia, and the locomotive can't without a tender and this government doesn't seem to be able to do without a tender, especially what's coming between the tenders. Why Srbobran? This government owes the Serb. With Burazer privatisation, the only company that worked and from which the Serb lived, the agricultural well-being of Elan was sold, resold, sold and destroyed at the end, so that agricultural production in that land was literally reduced to a minimum. You remember everyone who's a little older, I think of you, Mr. Chairman, as the quality products of Elana were in the shops, how you could find quality Elana products. There's no such thing today. So, Ellen was destroyed and robbed. What's that Srbobran gonna get? First possibility of housing NSZ. The Elan Hotel is empty anyway. MIP can add several dozen million dinars and complete the entire service to stay at the Hotel Elan. Otherwise, it's privatized, so it seems to me that this privatisation is broken, so it's now owned by the government. On the other hand, there's a sports airport in Cheney, so you can fly from here to here, because we have an airport in Belgrade, Batajnica airport, etc., so your transport issue wouldn't be very problematic. On the third hand, there's this big Back channel, so you can go that waterway, and if you go there, you'll see how polluted it is and how stinky it is, then the state will separate the huge resources to clear that channel and finally get a clean river, so to speak. On the third hand, Corridor 10 in the immediate vicinity, however, Corridor 10 is not complete, but as it has begun, I hope, since it was due in that century to end, if you did not end in that century, you will surely end it in this century, so you will be able to do so. From a historical point of view, the name Srbobran has historic significance for the Serbian people. Namely, there were Serbs at war against a much more dangerous enemy of Serbia and the Serb people than is today. I don't mean to say I wouldn't get a warning, but, you know, Mr. Chairman, what I mean.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46865	Two minutes of MP time was used. For the sake of truth and public, Serbian Elan, unfortunately, went bankrupt in the 1990s, so it wasn't the subject of privatisation. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Sreto Peric submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46866	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, you know that Charlie magician, and Charlie has proposed to amend and supplement three laws, and there's nothing there. The laws don't make up. When our prominent experts hold counselling, an analysis of the enforceability of the law in practice says our laws are extremely poor. This and if it were true, it's too late, and it's not true, this is just about naked makeup, and makeup is only good for women because women are pretty in themselves, and makeup laws are pointless and not correct for their citizens. I don't want to get into controversy with my colleagues, MPs from the SRS, but I think my proposal, for the first time, is subjective, perhaps the best proposal. I suggest that the headquarters of the Employment Service from Belgrade move to Love. I have two very precise and strong arguments. We even have the opportunity to propose a very good director of that service. He's working at the National Service now. He's got a settled housing issue in Love. Look, all the practical reasons to do something like that. I can't compare myself to colleagues who talked about employment in places where they propose to be the headquarters of the National Employment Service because there's almost no more employees there. Unless the government reacts in time and reacts vigorously, not that there will be no unemployed, but there will simply be no population. Then it's pointless where the Employment Service will be, but it's a little ironic, it's a little pointless, it's a little insulting and humiliating when you say moving to the Service, even where you predicted it would be, there's no need for additional funding. That's practically impossible. The service cannot be formed in that new place without having to do at least that business space first. I forgot to add, we have business space in Love. So, all the preconditions are met that the headquarters of the Belgrade Service moved to Ljubovija, and then those tourist potentials that we talked about in the previous law and to get expressions, but staff solutions are good. The place where the future seat is located, if you accept this amendment, is somehow on the central part of Podrinj, very close and close with Republika Srpska. All these are reasons why I hope my colleagues in voting day will give full support to this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46867	40 seconds of MP time was used. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46868	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, according to the National Employment Service, there were 721,043 unemployed persons in Serbia since 1 October this year. Serbia's real unemployment rate is around 19.2%. Even this Deger voiced concern about this unemployment rate in words that he was seriously concerned, as the EU said. Here, and the EU tears for unemployment in Serbia, and you do nothing. Among the registered unemployed are the youngest, up to 29 years of life. They're about 13.20%. From 30 to 34 years old, 12.5%. From 35 to 39 years is 12.1% and from 40 to 44 years is 11.72%. So, those working people are about 50% of the most workable. By regional structure, it also looks very negative. In Raška area over 12 months, more than 75% of people are waiting for work, in Jablani County more than 71%, in Pomoravska 70%, in Rasinski 70%, etc. As in Western Europe, so-called The lost generation of young people, as they call these 16-24 years old, I should never have dared to say it was a lost generation, but it was a generation that could not find its place in the labour market in Serbia. It is a generation that leaves Serbia and, according to a survey conducted, as many as 69% of young people would leave Serbia. So, young people don't trust this government, young people don't believe in the honesty of their own country. Using your parameters when it comes to balanced regional development, as well as to carry out a decentralisation in employment affairs, I suggested that the headquarters of the Employment Service be transferred to Cačak.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46869	45 seconds of MP time was used. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46870	The headquarters of the National Employment Service is in Belgrade. The government says it should be in Kragujevac. I say he should be in the Uzica. The government has not given any arguments to convince us why the headquarters should be in Kragujevac, and listening to colleagues from the SRS who have instructed various places in Serbia that could be the headquarters of this service, one could say that each of these places could be. The thing is that you, from the regimes of these laws, entertain people, and make concessions to a newly formed party or to a group of parties in Serbia just to preserve the government, which is your problem, but what you are doing is a problem for all Serbian citizens. You will not talk about the transfer funds that you have denied to municipalities, or local self-government in Serbia, so we have a problem that local self-governments are in bankruptcy. They don't even have the money, they don't have the most basic function because someone's thought of no longer allowing them what belongs to them under the law and by the Constitution. Today, what we are discussing are actually amendments to the Employment and Insurance Act in case of unemployment, and this law is much more serious than where it will be the headquarters of this service. A much more serious problem is that there are millions of unemployed in Serbia, leaving 10,000 people out of work in Serbia daily. Will you solve this, if you move the problem to Kragujevac to Belgrade, will you solve it. You won't. Of course you won't, and you have no intention of handling it. The village of the mountains is combed. Instead of hiring people, you are concerned about whether Dinkic will be more responsible for the headquarters of this service in Kragujevac, not Belgrade as it has been. You call this decentralisation. Who are you making fools of, gentlemen of the regime? You insult the intelligence of Serbian citizens. You explain here what your reasons are for this epochal change of law – it is no longer the headquarters of service in Belgrade, but is in Kragujevac. What does the citizens of Serbia get with this epochal change of law? They don't get anything. Is someone gonna get a job? He won't. Perhaps only two people or G17 officials or this Verko's party will get a job in Kragujevac, and these will travel there, and you will again make expenses like you did for judges and prosecutors and arrange all of this and do huge damage to the citizens of Serbia and nobody. You don't care how the people live. You don't care how many people are out of a job. You don't care that the Employment Service can't do its job because there are no jobs that it can share and do the job it's made for. You say Kragujevac has 22 and a half thousand unemployed, and Uzice, where I asked him to be the seat of 5,000 unemployed. What's the difference? Where are the other parameters of what is Kragujevac, how much is Užice? Are you being irresponsible and irresponsible, gentlemen of the regime? What you do to individuals from the government at the expense of the citizens of Serbia will be yours. Stay out of the way, do what the people pay you for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46871	Two minutes and 55 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46872	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 with a proposal to replace the word – Kragujevac with the word Paracin. Almost all state institutions mostly have their headquarters in Belgrade and one hand can be counted by institutions that are situated across Serbia and only in the largest cities after Belgrade. That's like Novi Sad, Kragujevac and Nis. Maybe someone else's, but it's a small number. We have had the opportunity to hear from government officials when visiting municipalities in Serbia that their goal is to develop municipalities evenly and to reduce differences in the economic development of these municipalities, to advocate decentralisation, but unfortunately in the wrong sense because they think of regions, but this is a good way for the government to show good will and desire to implement what it promises to citizens and to be based in this case the National Employment Service should be in Paracino. What is very important, which will reduce the additional costs and resources of the budget, if the Government accepts this amendment, is the fact that the current director of the National Employment Service is a Paraćinac and that the transfer of the headquarters of this service to Parachin would have a good and useful effect, above all, the costs of travel, the diaries, would be markedly reduced, and hence would automatically be employed persons from neighbouring municipalities, which would have the full effect of including human resources and outside Belgrade. According to President Boris Tadic himself, who advocates some rigorous savings, and here he crucifies hundreds of millions on the gay parade and the disgrace of the Serbian people, this proposal would only save significant resources in the RS budget, and I think that's your goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46873	The First Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46874	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with the amendment I have submitted, I suggest that the headquarters of the National Employment Service be moved to the Cup. Although as a government that does not have a strategy to get out of the deep economic, legal and social crisis, at least a little for more equal regional development and decentralisation, you will truly show this by moving this state institution into one of the most underdeveloped districts with poor municipalities and citizens who voted for you solely because of the promise of 500,000 jobs, the thousands of euros in action, followed by people's layoffs, the cutting of electricity and the mass emigration of people from these parts. I believe that you all know how many municipalities in Serbia, especially in southern Serbia, are in a difficult position because of the great unemployment that is under way, and all because of suspected savage privatisations from 2001 to today, which have led local self-government to the situation that no company is working today. In Prokuplje, a giant was privatized in the production of Hisar's candy. Privateized is a colored metal factory, the only species of this kind in southern and central Serbia, a colored metal factory worked in three shifts, and it produced over 10,000 tonnes per year in half-product in all dimensions for our market, but mainly for export. It has failedly been privatized, and on many occasions, by the mineral water factory "Milan Toplica", then by the factory of asbestos products "Fiaz", the glass millar, all of this has led to the granting of people from work by a programme that is all but social, so today, Prokuplje and Kursumli, Blace and Žitoradje has high unemployment rates, relatively small average income per capita, underdevelopment, poor investment, and development and professional capacity has as much as you want. The result is next. These are official statistics, although few official statistics can be considered reliable in Serbia today, as failure by the government to cover up devastating unemployment data, citizens are left behind if they are one day late to apply to the office without being able to register for the next six months. Last month, 15,230 job seekers were registered in Toplička County. Of these 2,010 people wait for employment from three to five years, and 1,814 people wait from five to eight years, 462 from eight to ten years, and even 1,083 people wait for work over ten years. In the end, this harsh statistics only speaks of the harsh conditions of life in Toplica and the harsh government policy towards our citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46875	One minute and twenty seconds of Parliament time. National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46876	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the draft law amending and supplementing the Employment and Insurance Act, I have submitted an amendment in Article 1. The bill of law of the word "Kragujevac" is replaced by the word "Pristina". This is a political bill, and if you really think that it has the weight of moving the headquarters of the National Employment Service from Belgrade to any environment, then the biggest political weight is just moving the headquarters from Belgrade to Pristina. Why am I saying this? Because the unemployment rate, if in Serbia is 19.2%, is 91%. So it's multiple and there are all the conditions and reasons for moving this seat to Pristina. Otherwise, the government has brought its argument, considering this amendment, in which it does not want to write in any word that the province's National Employment Service is located in the city of Pristina. There are nice cities in Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad, Kragujevac, however, Pristina is exempt. What are you afraid of? Whom you are afraid to state that Pristina is the city of the Republic of Serbia, the state of Serbia, that the Serb people live in Pristina and that the number of unemployed is much higher than in any city in the state of Serbia. If, for example, in Kragujevac where you propose, 22,000 unemployed are responsible, I argue that only in Mitrovica and Pristina is the number of unemployed people. If you take the information as much as we are expelled from the KIM space, and as many of the remaining in KIM space as you can figure out, then you can understand the arguments that I am saying, that the only political solution, is the real effect of just transferring the headquarters from Belgrade to Pristina. On the other hand, we have previously had various NGOs who have taken citizens of the Serbian people in the KIM area to various European countries. These were various NGOs who mostly took young couples who had more children in their household. Today, following multiple pressures and criticisms against these NGOs, they stopped taking Serbian young couples with a large number of children abroad, no longer doing so by NGOs, and today the National Employment Service is boasting. She submits reports that she is doing employment, but only in Germany, Libya, Algeria, Russia, Ukraine, Italy, Norway, Denmark, etc. That is why this is another reason for the seat of the National Employment Service to be in the city of Pristina and I hope that MPs will accept this amendment and these arguments and vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46877	Forty seconds of MP time was used. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. There's no answer for word. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. No one's looking for a word. The First Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46878	Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable citizens of Serbia, as we MPs know, as far as employment is concerned, is one fact that in Serbia we have no problems in this area. What am I saying that for? Because there are certain data that we as MPs get for that. I asked one parliamentary question as early as 2009 and I asked for an answer – how many international donations were invested in employment, then which areas did these loans go to, and how many people are employed on this basis? I got the next answer – no credit has been withdrawn, none of these donations are employed, it can be concluded from this. That's a broad answer, but I've been looking for a decoded number of workers, so I've been looking for a number. Unfortunately, no employee is employed on the basis of these donations. What's most devastating, and I'll read it for the public here. Why am I saying we don't have a problem? Because I got the information, that's the government's response, it says – between 2001 and 2008, an average of 250 thousand people were employed annually, so eight years after 250 thousand, that comes to you two million people are employed, with these millions and 600. We don't even have enough workers, we've probably imported workers. We have to act a little bit, because these are official government data, these are official government data, etc. This is how you treat the Messengers of the people, and that is how you treat the workers. In the period from 2001 to today, over 60 billion euros went through the financial system and we have unemployment. This clearly points to the government's seriousness, or inconclusiveness. If only it had gone through the National Employment Service, those funds that went through the financial system would have no problems in this area today. If a few loans had been taken and it was invested in employment, they wouldn't have had that phenomenon. I wish it had changed from those donations that were given, here, Vensan Dežer tells you in his latest public address to Serbia which are the problems. He even cares about them. Most probably Europe can't sleep because we have so much unemployment, but frankly these institutions tell you that this is a problem even for them. Here, I will also read what he says about the donations the EU has invested in the financial system of the Republic of Serbia. The EU has, in the last ten years, provided Serbia with ten billion euros in grants and five billion euros in loans, in order to get the country into the EU as soon as possible, not to wait another ten years. Look, it means 15 billion euros! How long did it go for the job? Does anyone know that? He doesn't know. You see this data that we get in response to parliamentary questions says there's no investment. Where did those funds go, no one knows. It's all about the seriousness of this government.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46879	One minute and forty seconds of the parliamentary group were used. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Zivkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46880	I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 which reads that the word "Kragujevac" is replaced by the word "Becay". Since I come as a MP from the municipality of Vienna, I would just like to remind the ruling coalition of how strong Vienna as a municipality was economic, economic, etc., until there came a catastrophic privatisation which, of course, impoverished the Vienna municipality from which I came. I'd just like to remind you how much Fadip Vienna was a company known for exporting high-quality pipes that were used for the airline industry, for England, for Russia, etc. Today that factory doesn't work. The Becay combination, which was also one of the largest combinations and which dealt with agriculture, from field to table, is now in catastrophic condition, workers do not receive salaries. The biggest cause and effect of unemployment is this combination, and all these other companies that worked in the Becej municipality, only because privatisation in the Becay municipality was done disastrously. Not only in the Vienna municipality, as you heard from my colleagues, in all other municipalities, it's that way. If the Vienna municipality were significant, it could still be significant in food production today, it says exactly how many unemployed workers there are at the employment bureau. Since 2000, of 1,800 workers who were on the list, both workers who had lost their jobs, or new arrivals. educated young people, today they came to 5,000 unemployed. It's a social bomb in the Vienna municipality. The biggest disaster is the privatisation of the PIC, which I have talked about before, and since the land issue in the municipality of Becej, for three years the municipalities of Becej, the Republic and the province have not benefited, because the extrajudicial alignment of a certain private minister, Mr Nicovic, has been assured that he has been using the social country for three years, i.e. State land, three years with a very minimal price. Even more, the government gave a 100-euro stimulant, and it used a hectare of 5,000 dinars. So, not only did he damage the Vienna municipality, but he also damaged the Republic Fund and the provincial fund, since the law was very clear how they were divided and how the funds were allocated from the leased land. I'll be very brief. I'll just finish. Why the Vienna municipality, now you understand, but I think the Agency too. The National Employment Service would not have made much better in the Becay municipality, as the DS in continuance for two decades in the Becej municipality, and it is disastrous now in this mandate, where a group of citizens of nine council members have joined themselves as a result of the elections, where it had three councilors in the regular elections, and the group of citizens has now transferred all of the nine committee members to the DS. Therefore, it is only as important as how important it is and how important DS is in the Vienna municipality and what it has done with the city of Vienna.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46881	Two minutes of MP time was used. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mrs Dušanka Plečević.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46882	I suggest that the National Employment Service's headquarters be moved to Bor. If in your reasons for amending the Employment Act you say that they will be provided with more uniform development in the future, then Bor is the right place to do so. I come from Bor, a city in which there are about 7,000 people on unemployment records. The number of undeclared people who have lost any hope of ever getting a job is even bigger. Bor as well as the whole of Timočka provinces have been completely neglected over the past ten years as regards the grant of funds from the Development Fund, if the last campaign is excluded before the June 20th local elections this year. At the time, Minister Dinkic made promises of two thousand new jobs and 450m euros for the new smelter, etc. I remind you that for the 2008 republican elections, he also promised a new copper smelter, but so far no rock foundation has been laid. Given the promises made and since all state money is under the control of one party, G 17 plus, the citizens of Bora have hurried to join the party, all in the hope that they will get the promised one, because only the party's membership card in power gives false hope that someone will get the job. So the first month after the election in G 17 plus, about 500 citizens, 400 of them immediately went to the head of the municipality and the head of RTB Bor, otherwise personnel from the party, were looking for a job. So many members of this party have never had in Bor since its founding. Of the promised 450m euros, 122.3m dinars were approved in Bor, and the euro was devalued here as well as in a thousand-euro action, which, by chance, was on June 17th at the time of the election campaign, i.e. the pre-election silence for the re-election local elections. I remind you that in 2006, Dinkic sold RTB Bor as a large debtor, an unspective former giant, for 210m euros in the first failed tender and for 450m euros, a coincidence or intention, in a renewed also unsuccessful tender, some inconclusive customers. Just thanks to the SRS citizens of Bor who defended RTB Bor from such a robbery privatisation, he remained in majority state ownership as a very important state strategic resource. This transformation of Minister Dinkic from a uncompromising strategic resource trader outside the election to a minesguard and unemployed citizens of Bor at the time of the elections is a regular phenomenon. So move the National Employment Service to Bor, in order to employ 2000 Boran, as you promised in June of this year in an election campaign.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46883	Forty seconds of MP time was used. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MP Vesna Maric submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mrs. Maric, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46884	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law on employment and insurance in case of unemployment. The headquarters of the National Employment Service is in Belgrade, in line with the current provisions of the Employment and Insurance Act for the event of unemployment. In view of the regional differences expressed in the Republic of Serbia, in order to ensure more uniform development in the future, I estimate that the seats of individual state bodies operating in the territory of the entire Republic should be moved out of Belgrade. In this way, decentralisation of jobs, employment and greater involvement of human resources from regional centres would be achieved, which is the aim of the proposed change of seats. The amendment proposes that the seats of the National Employment Service be in a place I consider to be the preconditions for including human resources and at the same time addressing the problem of unemployment in the city and the environment. I suggested that the headquarters of the National Employment Service be transferred to Jagodina. If you accept my proposal, the residents of Jagodina will have a better chance of finding a job. First, some will get a job in the employment service itself. In addition, if the headquarters of this service is in Jagodina, it will give additional motivation and initiative to hire the unemployed in this part of Serbia. Jagodina has all predispositions to increase employment. In this Serbian city, production and exports are developing as a precondition for the country's economic stability. Moving the employment office to Jagodin will also signal business banks to engage further in that part of Serbia. This will increase production and exports, which will also improve the difficult economic situation in our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46885	National MP Branimir Djokic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46886	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the draft law on employment and unemployment insurance. Like many of my colleagues who have asked, rightly, for the headquarters of the National Employment Service from Belgrade to move to their place, that's what I've been looking for for for a place from which I come, and that's Nis. I'm going to make some convincing arguments about this, and I'm asking the government's representatives here to think very carefully about what I'm going to talk about. Unfortunately, Nis gets ahead of one thing, and that's the number of unemployed. Nis, according to the data you've provided in the material we have here, there are 35,000 unemployed, although I have data that this number is significantly higher and that it's moving somewhere around 40,000 to 42,000 unemployed. When compared to the number of people living in Nis, it is about 14-15% of the total population, and it should not be explained that those who are able to work do not include pensioners and minors, so it may be more than any other Nisli actually unemployed. Just one more piece of information. There are 28,000 unemployed in Novi Sad, a city that has more inhabitants than Nis. Of course, it's a large number, but it's significantly and nominally and percentageally less than it is in Nis. Kragujevac, however, has fewer inhabitants than Nis, there are 22,500 unemployed. He's the city you suggested here to be the headquarters of the National Employment Service. Many colleagues have said that Kragujevac has been seen in many ways by the government, starting with investment in the Zastava factory through the Fiat project, etc. Of course, I'm not going to say that they don't need anything either, but Nis, like a city that is in the most difficult situation of all major cities in Serbia, deserves to be moved to Nis. Let's say, compared to Belgrade, which has 95,000 unemployed, again according to the data you gave us, that's about 5-6% of the total population, there are more nominal employees than Nis, which is about 2.7-2.8 times, and Belgrade, compared to Nis, is significantly higher than seven, eight times. That's another reason for this service to move to Nis. Prior to my presentation, I was called by the workers of the PTT company in Nis, who had not resolved their status for five years, and not only from Nis but also from many places in Serbia, while, for example, workers of the same business company in Belgrade have already resolved their status and these workers have been incorporated into the PTT system. This adds that this government and this state have different treatment for Belgrade compared to other cities in Serbia, so I think this is another reason for my amendment to be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46887	One minute and 50 seconds. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Krassic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46888	Mr. Novakovic, you can count everything over two minutes in time for a representative. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in view of these three laws that are on the agenda today, we have resorted to one operation that is being established – every SRS MP has submitted an amendment and has used, in the light of his amendment, an explanation that the government has given for its draft laws. In this sense, we recognise plagiarism, which means that we believe that in the same way that the government proposed a seat in Kragujevac, among those other laws of Užica and Nis, there can be any place in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, because the government essentially did not give too much explanation why the seat of the National Employment Service should be in Kragujevac. Then our MPs took the opportunity to propose their seats with the amendment, to point to the results of the pro-European, Euro-Atlantic and other Dosmanli suicide moves from 5 October to today. These are the results of this pro-European policy: sales, spending, debt. We're not going to enter your statistics on the number of unemployed at all. We have recordrs in Europe, as a geoglyphic concept, chasing some EU countries, but they are also far from us. We're at about 29%, Spain 9%, and they're shaking, big problems. You also saw that "quisca" from the EU, which says that the EU can no longer exist. Probably something's been coming up since New Year's Eve. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, your failure is due to a non-alternative view of life: Europe, Europe, Europe. No wonder, with 70% of the EU's acceptability in Serbia, it fell to about 10%, which means only criminals are still talking about the EU. You'll have to change the names of the coalitions for the next campaign. You'll no longer be a ZES, no ZZ, but you'll be something else. Whoever says - the EU, don't go to the election. That no longer brings any votes to Serbia. Of course, the only party is the SRS that warned citizens of the Republic of Serbia not to trust those who lead us in this way in the EU. The way we lead in the EU is to devastate everything, complete destruction. Kragujevci went a little better because in 2001 they beat three ministers: Vlahovic, Djelic and Pitic and then, so they don't get beat up, and the saying "batin's out of heaven" applies, all looked a little differently at Kragujevac. If my Nišli in the "Electron Industry" had done the same thing, she wouldn't be in the franclas today, because we just don't know what the principle in DOS policy is in all the variants, we just know that she can steal, as one capitalist said, we know that now is the best job to catch Mladic. All chasing Mladic, you see it's an empty hall, wants to take 10m euros. Just to remind you, on Vidovday 2001 Milosevic was delivered and then it was said: better that... (President: Excuse me, Mr. Krasic, just to remind you that the essence of your amendment is to replace the word "Kragujevac" with the word "Black Grass". I knew you'd get involved. We'll get to Black Grass, don't worry. In all the laws, I suggested that the seat be Black Grass. Now let me explain that to you. It's very important Vidovdan, Mr. Novakovic. We deliver one to get better, and then the next, the next, the next. Who's next? There'll always be someone next. Why Black Weed? There is no better statistical example in Serbia's history than in black grass. Once upon a time, Black grass was a statistical hole, wages, number of employees, demographics, resources, etc. Beocin was the best, some time Novi Sad, some time New Belgrade, but Black Grass, disaster, the notion of something bad. If we want to fix that, and I have to, Mr. Novakovic, to express my suspicion, since this is said to be a process of deconcentration, I know that it was only the deconcentrated ones who proposed these laws. They were totally distracted. Those poor people were counting money, money and money, so let's bid. Okay, Kragujevac, we'll have the ropes, we'll have Nis. Nis can't because he's there, KPdom. Everyone there from the Development Fund can go to jail. How much time is left on the loose? As far as I know, a little bit and someone from the Development Fund gets arrested, whether start-up loans, whether they're your presidents of municipalities who are on the list of artists. The president of the municipality of Valjevo is on the official list of experts of the Development Fund, because when he performs the skill and assessment, it passes on to the Fund and there are many more. It is one rounded system, one system that leads to the destruction of the Republic of Serbia by all stitches. Only a beautiful story about the European pathway, European integration, expectations. Now you only burn at 10%. What does this enlightened part of Western Europe say? Young people say this, I remind our young people too – we refuse to be children of the financial crisis. That's what young people in Germany, France, etc. say. What do young people say? Young people in Europe live with the knowledge that they have no future. What can our youth say? They demonstrated yesterday about some tuition. They say, "We pay, we study, and you steal." Oh, to Dedinje, to dear President of the Republic and to seek the same conditions of education as he had, I had, you Mr. Novakovic, what you had, the same conditions. What else is very important? I have time. Don't worry. Black grass is very important. I'm not asking you to...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46889	It's not time, it's theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46890	I'm not asking him to move to Black Grass University, I don't want to, and if I knew Black Grass well, I have to tell you, Mr. Novakovic, there's a little dispute between Surdulica and Black Grass, whose lake is Vlassino, but I won't open that topic. Everyone recognized our amendments. You don't have that answer to any of our amendments. The explanation of why we propose to be Black Grass is the same as your explanation that you propose Kragujevac, in that next law you propose Nis, in that third you suggest Užice and you cannot answer. Now, respected citizens, you know, you who live in Pogorevc, Užica, Sremska Mitrovica and Zajecar, have no perspective, because the government in response said that there was the smallest number of persons on the employment records. There are only 4,000 unemployed in the firehouse. They think that when it's 7,000, then it deserves attention, even though it's yours from the Fireman, Ilic. You see, as far as Užica is concerned, there are only 5,000 unemployed in Užica. What are you sending that agency over there? What do they say about Sremska Mitrovica? Imagine, just 6500 unemployed. It's tolerable, it doesn't touch them. Zavecar, only 7,000 unemployed. What's $7,000 to, say, Nisu 35,000, and Nis is a lot of concern? You've cut yourself a lot for Nis. Here, the Nishis simply chase, they can chase after that Radovana Ilic, after he moved here, he cheers and dresses. You can finish it all, and can you finish it? You can't. Your system's broken, it's down. The system is based on a membership card and on the benefit of some. The greatest benefits of those who are illegal, not those who are publicly highlighted, illegals, jeeps, purses, bows, public procurement, etc. The Employment Service hired people through a student cooperative, according to a National Service report. Imagine what a disaster it is, which is a moral solar system of a very important state institution, which you say is in the process of deconcentration. All deconcentrated, but stolen money. How so distracted and stolen money, explain it to me. Turns out he's a total sicko stealing money. No, he's very normal, intelligent. Video that the state doesn't exist, that institutions don't exist. Black grass is a characteristic example in this respect, as a result of theft in Belgrade, Montenegro's Trava cannot develop, Mr. Novakovic. You understand me well. What can you expect, since I always tell you six months ahead of what will happen, those who follow in Europe what is said – from January 1st, the time of the uprising came. I don't know in this civilized Europe what the rise means? They say in Europe, in Brussels, the uprising goes to them. Belgium doesn't have a government yet, you know, they can't agree, and the Belgian comes and gives you a lecture. What can he teach you, explain? It's just like I've got a dirty yard, so I'm criticizing his neighbor for being his dirty yard. It's not working, you all know that. The Bavarian housekeeper sent strong messages. That bank in Frankfurt says -- some from the euro area have to leave. Done euro, sank. I'm talking about the citizens of Black Treva, Mr. Novakovic, the Black Grass has been a statistical error for 20 and 30 years. I'm afraid every settlement in Serbia has become the Black Grass since you came to power. Every place is Black Grass, whether it's near Lake Vlassin or not. All black grass to black grass. That's your score. I only support you for Nis, since there's a KP home in Nis. There's going to be a retraining, but all I care about is that you don't take these passports and run away, so I can't catch you later. You're catching Mladic, but before you do, I'll catch what I think and put you in a KP home. These are the results of your European policy, so you don't know if there's going to be a pension for New Year's Eve, whether there's going to be a salary, what's going to be done, and here you're talking about epic results to get the President of the Republic to tell us -- we can't pay the utility because we don't have the money. How can citizens pay? You think they have money? On Mondays, people can't look at the mailbox, open an account, so they don't get a lot of bad luck when they see what the accounts are. Where is Gilas to explain to the citizens the European way with 30% more expensive heating in Belgrade? He won't, he's going through his marketing agency to the children and these and those who team up with Montgomery and these others here, Montgomery has an asset and person security agency, all set up by the enemy of Serbia. Dear citizens, know that in the next elections, whether or not you want to, you have to take the SRS because it was the only one who kept talking not to the EU. We're the only ones who said we weren't up for delivering the young man. You're all here to deliver the young man. Do you know what's next, who's next? Let me remind you, in 2003 you organized a rally so that one general of the police would not be delivered. They don't respect you from abroad.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46891	Mr. Krasic, I have been very patient trying to monitor the course of your discussion. Article 106 of Section 1 obliges us to connect in these two minutes why not Kragujevac, why Black Grass, so please focus on the topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46892	Mr. Novakovic, I'm glad you realized that Black Grass is wherever you turn. To relocate all possible state institutions, in this deconcentration process of yours, to Crno Trav, nothing will happen better to the Republic of Serbia, nor will it increase the number of employees because the number of employees depends not on the headquarters of the Service, but depends on whether there are jobs, whether they are opening up or opening up this market as a can, to enter every scissors from the EU. Let me remind you, Mr. Novakovic, your Sasa Vitosevic, is not from Black Grass, he made it possible to import in 2000 as aid from America genetically modified soybean. You've been boasting like an epochal move, and now you're chasing the peasants who once planted them in your speech. I don't believe anything. Anyone in Serbia who believes DOS and Boris Tadic has died. Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. I'll see you in Black Grass.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46893	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Of course, Black Grass has a perspective. Now that it's 6 p.m., based on article 87, I'm setting a break of one hour that was promised at the beginning of today. We'll continue at 19.00 hours. Thank you very much. [[After break – 19.00]] We continue the evening session by amendment to article 1 submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. The word is Mr. Toolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46895	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing our work with a full room. What I want to say first of all to the citizens of Serbia when it comes to these three amendments and the addition of the law, which is that this is another farce. Why? First of all, because we are absolutely clear when the government has appointed representatives in the National Assembly to defend these three laws by Mladjan Dinkic, Verica Kalanovic and Jasna Matic, it clearly states what lies behind these laws. Absolutely Serbian citizens will get nothing, primarily by moving their seats to other cities. This, respected citizens, is another fraud, as you were deceived in 2008 when 1,000 euros were promised, so both you and all Serbian citizens will be deceived. This is just an opening for the next election. Don't absolutely trust them because this is just a fairy tale. We've had opportunities in the media to see that there's been a lot of talk lately about a fairy tale since 2000. I wish it was... (President: Mr. Flea, please concentrate on your amendment, which says that instead of saying, "The Kragujevac," we put the words "New Sad". So far, neither Kragujevac nor Novi Sad nor through the fog. We'll mention the Nova Sad right away. For reasons to pass this law, you mentioned that the headquarters of the province's National Employment Service is located in Novi Sad. But we haven't seen anywhere do you mention another autonomous province? Is the seat of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija possible in Novi Sad? So, citizens, where good luck is it's been a bad dream these past ten years.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46896	30 seconds of MP time was used. The First Amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Krstin, who has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46897	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this little time left for the SRS parliamentary group I will try to be brief but clear. Namely, in Article 1. The bill of law of the word "Kragujevac" is replaced by the word "Zranjanin". I will tell you, you, Mr. Chairman, remember that on 26 October, when it came to the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia 2010-2020, I presented the reasons why Zrenjanin was left out as a city from the complete spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia for 2010-2020, if we know that Zrenjanin is in its surroundings, looking both towards Belgrade and Novi Sad, has an industrial zone. That's the first reason. The second reason is because four waterways pass through the territory of the city of Zrenjanin, namely Begej, Tisa, Danube and the Danube-Tisa-Dunav. Otherwise, the area of Zrenjanin municipality is the densest river and canal hub in Europe, where the river Begej, Tamis, Tisa, Danube and the Danube-Tisa-Dunav canal network flows within 30 km. So you left out the port. Third, an airport already in existence, which has existed since 1942, has not been included for enlargement and for some larger role in Serbia's aviation, but has remained where it is. I think that's only one part of the reason why he should not move to Kragujevac National Service headquarters but to Zrenjanin. You're going from mistake to mistake. As far as I can tell, Mr. Dinkic is always in Kragujevac. If he's not in Kragujevac, they're in India. What you did the biggest mistake, and then you also rewarded the citizens of Zrenjanin, is to build a regional warehouse for dangerous waste. That was confirmed by Minister Dulic on 27 October. It's the merits of the citizens of Zrenjanin, and those in advance that I've listed are not. Then at least value what you can value, correct that mistake with the citizens of Zrenjanin, which is that the headquarters of the National Service is in Zrenjanin.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46898	One minute of the MP's time was used. The People's MP Marina Toman submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vitomir Plužarevic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Master.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46899	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to the Kragujevac Employment Agency to move to the city of Sabac. You know very well that after the Petoctobar Revolution, there was a body that you called crisis headquarters. These headquarters were supposed to preserve the economy, protect the people. Apparently, you told all those who were then for democracy – we will lead you in a direction where you will all have a job, where you will all live in prosperity. But I'm asking you if 25,000 unemployed in Sapac, where there are 30 companies and large companies, the biggest gigans, of which the Zorca Chemical Industry, whose name you shouldn't have said. I was a businessman. I worked in it for 30 years. I shouldn't have said I was coming from Capca, I should have just mentioned that firm that hired 12,000. But by a certain reduction, you have to believe me, there are about 300 to 400 workers in that company today. How and how, after all of this and after the criminal tycoon privatisation you did in Serbia, which was done in such a way that the companies were kidnapped, for $24m, Ju-Es-Stil bought a modern-day "Gelezzare", and in that environment she bought a single factory, it is a coke that should carry our golden eggs in Serbia – the White Lima factory. Don't forget that buying the Smederjev Ironworks is 1.6 billion dinars and, I say, half of the town of Smedereva was donated to US Steel and 10 years of benefits not to pay or cut to pay for electricity. I ask you how many millions and billions of dollars are coming out of Serbia today, because those who bought it will not leave their income in Serbia, but rather bring that income to their country. What is present in Serbia today? So these malls, just shops, from shops, ladies and gentlemen, you can't live. One of the crucial laws that you've passed, it's the Employment Act, and we're going to sort of finish our biological option, the one that we need to work out, but what are our kids, where they're going to do, you want that regionalization? But I'm asking you, where do you want regionalization? You want to regionalize where there's no more economy, where there's nothing? You want south of Serbia, Kruševac? You want a bullet, you want a crow, you want a pyro, you want a Kragujevac, you want a car industry, where you sold maybe 30-40 vehicles over the year? It's the biggest evil because today the economy is run by people who haven't worked in the economy for days, apparently, they're experts, economic experts. I don't see, it's just like a man who's done medicine, a doctor, so you bring him in to operate, and he says, "I have no idea, I've never operated in my life." He's free of his degree, which he acquired in college, if he doesn't have some routine practice. It's this internship process that every expert has to carry out. That's the problem, regionalization. You can't, ladies and gentlemen, now where the 70-year-olds are left to have them reproduce. You know, it's live reproduction. They can't produce anymore, they can't make children. No more, their kids went into town, lost their job. All of this is today, as I said yesterday, in Serbia reportedly blooming roses, Serbia is all in roses, as the President of the Republic said - I am actually Serbia. Gentlemen, he probably thought of himself as Serbia, because we're thinking about how much we're getting here today and how much pay we pay here, see how many people are here. How much of the budget should be allocated to Members' salaries, and how much is present today? That's what the citizens are asking. You've created another political party that's supposed to rule again, to be the new DOS. You created what you today, ladies and gentlemen, you want to interrupt me, I see you're getting ready, but I didn't go off topic, because I'm constantly on the subject because I'm talking about the greatest misery and poverty today in Serbia. (President: No, but I'm going to ask you to return to the topic. Don't watch Belgrade. The liberalisation's in the environment. You keep the social peace. Do you know who keeps your social peace? It is still guarded by that poor and poor peasant, a 70-year-old producer, because the economy in Serbia is not working. That's why I said it would be best if he moved it all to Shabac. Thirty companies are closed. Look at this company that's here, Omni Stock, this company that was in business in 2000 by restoring what you burned, what you were pyromaniacs. This same man rebuilds the congregation today. Do you know who he is? He was an assistant or deputy or vice president of the Chamber of Commerce, so he returned from Russia, where he was as a builder, was in America, Italy, and you can see how much he invested his capital, the one he had to invest to open the company, placed 5,000 euros in stock, and look at his income. That man blacked out Serbia's economy. He wrapped up in the black economy of Whispers because he bought companies where he didn't pay PIOs, didn't pay their income. I ask you, where is the economy today? Let's not lie anymore, we're telling the truth once, let's say -- listen, today in Serbia this power can't run Serbia anymore because it's ten years what it did, it's the same as you burned this home down in 2000. You set this building on fire, you destroyed it. You've seen my colleagues' donations. Where are those donations you received in 2000 so that democracy could work in Serbia? Where's your money? All that donation you got, you stole from each other. You created these tycoons of Miskovic, Beka and the others. You must be holding Serbia today, those three or four tycoons, they're giving it to Serbia, and they're going to sell it along with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46900	Six minutes and 15 seconds of the parliamentary group's time has been used. Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46901	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is true that Serbia feels the impact of the global economic crisis and it is true that we have problems hiring our citizens and it is true that Serbia faces the severe economic consequences as well as everywhere in the world. But I have to remind you, senility may be a good disease, nothing hurts, and every day you hear something new. However, I am not senile and I remember very well that some people had the opportunity to show in this country their luxury talent, their creative skills, their political skills, and that inflation was 120% during their rule. I remind you that at that time, employment was far, far lower than it is now. Is there any need to remind myself what the salaries were, what the pensions were? I don't think there's any need. Since I'm not senile, and I love to follow what anyone says in this room, so just a few observations. Kruševac is not a town in southern Serbia, Kruševac is in the heart of Serbia, it is a beautiful town. On the other hand, when we speak regionalisation today, regionalisation is not just about Serbia's regionalisation in southern Serbia, so the north of Serbia will have its regions, and central Serbia will have its regions and southern Serbia will have its regions. But for all those who, from this time distance and proselytes, are well aware of their big problems, and when they are in a position to be in power, it is good that the longer they stay in the opposition, because apparently, that stay in the opposition, the more creatively creative thinking they have, enables them to look at the effects of everyone, including their own, and the longer they are in opposition, not because of them, but because of Serbia, because Serbia is the time when they demonstrate their strong political potential, their political skills, barely survived. So, whenever they answer the word, let them tell us who was stopping them, who was holding them back, who was holding their hand to do what they were supposed to do then, and what they see so well now when they're in opposition. I'll welcome their every applause speech when I hear the answers to those questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46902	I thank you too, speech is beautiful, but it's not in the context of the topic and the agenda. We are talking about Mr. Zivanovic's amendment, which reads that the word "Kragujevac" in article 1 is replaced by "Sabac". According to this amendment, Mr. Spaho Suleiman has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46903	Mr. Vice President, before this break of amendment I was supposed to make here because of technical possibilities, I wasn't talking about him. If you'll allow me to explain my amendment now and tell me what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46904	The technical possibilities were all correct, but there are 16 minutes of MP time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46905	I'll use two minutes. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the bill of law, I have replaced the word "Kragujevac" with the word "Password." The arrival of the DOS in 2000 begins on Serbia's sunflower, a terrible bad privatisation takes place for all citizens of Serbia, bringing your experts who quickly led us to losses in huge indifference, the destruction of industry, and agriculture, as well as normal and other activities in the economy. That's all it's ever done. It's got to be an economic chaos. In 2000, the password had a developed industry that employs about 22,000 workers. Today these companies are not working, workers have been driven to the labour market and, normally, Loznica has 14,000 unemployed at the moment. Because of these 14,000 unemployed and I have submitted this amendment where I propose that the headquarters of the National Employment Service be in Loznica, for which, believe me, there are preconditions for this service to function better and more efficiently and be far more constructive than in Kragujevac. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46906	I thank you, too. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46907	Dear citizens of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, what is controversial is simply the climate created by Article 1 of this bill, which is why we have submitted a large number of amendments. In Serbia beside Kragujevac, there are many places where the employment service could be based. In doing so, we used the reasoning written by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We're glad that you've confirmed everything we've been saying since 2001 to this day. Everything we've put on you, you've confirmed. It means it's worth it that the MPs of the SRS have been talking about it regularly all these years. The government of the Republic of Serbia has considered amendments to give an opinion to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the draft law and has, as usual, rejected all amendments to the SRS. In the explanation of the Government for not accepting the amendments, among other things, you stated - the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the removal of certain republican institutions is proposed primarily in view of more balanced regional development. This argument is pointless. What makes this balanced regional development secure if the headquarters of the Employment Service is located in Kragujevac and not provided if it is in Valjevo? Why have I submitted this amendment, or why do I feel that the seat of the National Employment Service should be in the King? Unfortunately, the tragic nights between November 2nd and November 3rd have been hit hard by an earthquake. Government officials promise daily to help the people of the kings and the environment in every way possible. Gentlemen of power, here's a chance to help the King this way, by accepting this amendment. When the MPs of the SRS visited the Kingdom shortly after the earthquake and in conversation with the citizens of the Kings, we learned that next to the destroyed objects, fear and uncertainty, the biggest and main problem of unemployment. The king has about 130,000 inhabitants, and the unemployed have about 2/3 of the working population and perhaps more. Two large companies that fed the King, Magnochrom and the Car Factory don't work back for years, and the workers are out of work, and thus without basic income. Furthermore, in your reasons for not accepting the amendments, you say that in May, the government adopted a programme for reviving large industrial centres. What did you do from May to this day for Nis, Zajchar, the King and the New Market? How many factories did you open? How many people have you hired? Poverty and unemployment spread like infectious diseases, like epidemics. In the King’s small number of workers are employed by very rare small private companies, market gigs, taxi associations, with minimum earnings trying to feed and educate children. Unemployment, fighting for the dinar, and now earthquakes have united and channeled the people of the Kings to deal with everything and everything within the frameworks of the law and the possibilities to fight for existence. The citizens of the Kings have potentials, they are both hardworking and honest and so I appeal once again, if you really want to help the citizens of the Kings, please accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46908	Thank you. You've used two and a half minutes since the MP's time. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46909	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment refers to the transfer of the Kragujevac Employment Branch to Kovin. Why Kragujevac? Same answer why Kovin did. A large regional difference is expressed. Under the Law on Equal Regional Development, developed regions are presented as Belgrade and the Vojvodina region, and if it has to move from one developed region, let it move to another developed region, which is in the Vojvodina region, more specifically to Banat or to the Covin itself. What's important to me, and probably also to the citizens, is that we all need to be similar to what the role of the move of the Philiale is and what it's based on and what it's all about. What is also clear to everyone is that wherever she is, she will offer nothing new and will not help the citizens of Serbia. Now I'm asking you, since the Philiala himself is tasked with hiring people, i.e. Unemployed persons in relation to related jobs, are we going to kidnap which city is going to be the Philiale, does she have anything to offer? Will she offer 400,000 jobs offered by the president of our country? Or will he offer related jobs so that the doctor can be a veterinarian, that the teacher can be a janitor at school, that the mechanic can cut the trees, and that the trafficker paints the signs? What will the new branch offer? Or will it work on the principle of taking off the list as many unemployed persons as possible to show that the unemployment rate is lower than in previous years? Here is your explanation here, along with all Belgrade, Nis, Kragujevac, Sremski Mitrovica, Užic 203,000 unemployed, and in practice there are half a million for such a way of removing people from the records of the branch itself. So it doesn't matter if we help the citizens of Kovin, the Kings, the Kragujevci or Nis, it's important to help them, but in what way? That way we can get them jobs. When that happens, then we can hijack where Philias is going to be. Until then, why not Kovin, if the regional difference is expressed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46910	20 seconds of MP time was used. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Before I ask if anyone wants a word, I am obliged to apologize to the officials, and to the secretary of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs Mrs. Žužani Sic Levi and the senior advisor for preparing the sessions of Mrs. Sanja Stajic, because of the inconvenience they experienced by irresponsible call of service about 17.00 hours, at the afternoon session, when one of the amendments was claimed to have been lost, pushed away and it was not in front of us. So, I hope he accepts my apology, and the amendment submitted by Dragan Acimovic deserves his discussion as well. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46911	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the draft law amending the Employment and Insurance Act in case of unemployment. In Article 1 The bill of law of the word "Kragujevac" is replaced by the word " Bogatic". The SRS believes that balanced regional development should also bring a positive position for those citizens in smaller municipalities, where the perspective for a better life does not exist. Mostly, the concentration of young people is present only in larger cities, so that in the future the headquarters of the National Service would be of great importance, in order to achieve decentralisation of employment and greater involvement of human resources from regional centres, which is the aim of the proposed change of seats. The amendment proposes that the headquarters of the National Employment Service be in a place that I consider to be the preconditions for including human resources while at the same time addressing unemployment in that place and the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46912	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46913	Mr. Novakovic, I'll try to be practical. It's just Surdulka is away from Black Grass. By handling the principle of deconcentration, which insists on the reasoning of this law, that is enough to accept the amendment and to place the headquarters of this service in Surdulic. You see, this law, as it is, has suggested one part of the ruling majority. There's only one thing worse than him: a compromise that the rest of the majority agreed to. Those of you who have agreed to all this I ask – you will vote for this in the voting day, I cannot accuse those who have proposed it. Yesterday in Belgrade, there were 150 workers from the flag of PES from Surdulica, they strike for six months, the state authorities run by the same ones who suggested this, six months are unable to solve their problem, saying it would be one way or another, that workers know what they're on. I'm asking you, will the disreputed workers be put in a better position than this? Of course not. I ask the representatives of the majority whether, after the adoption of this law, every fourth young man in this country who finishes school will stop wanting to leave this country? No, of course not. You all know that, but the survival of the government is more important than anything. When such laws begin to come into congregation procedure, it is evidence of two things: that the state is reaching the bottom and that there is no longer a political system, that everything is in one man, one party, one influential group of people in this country. That's why we think this is nonsense, which is why we feel that this is not to be accepted, and that is why we believe that each of the cities listed in the amendments has as much right to headquarters as the Kragujevac you have proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46914	Twenty seconds of Parliament time. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46915	I have submitted an amendment to the amendment to the Law on Employment and Insurance in the event of unemployment, in Article 1. The bill of law replaces the word "Kragujevac" with the word "Arilje". In its programme, the SRS is focused on decentralisation in the form of strong local self-government, with appropriate powers, even development, and a strong state. But we don't have a strong state, and it's about the current government that doesn't want to make the state the way it suits our citizens. That is why I propose this amendment to have the National Employment Service headquarters in Ariel, because I believe there are preconditions for including human resources and at the same time addressing the problem of unemployment. Unemployment can only be solved by opening new jobs and primarily by productive jobs. As far as the pleasure region is concerned, according to the privatisation agency, 83 companies have been privatised so far, while 26 social firms are waiting for privatisation. The Užički region is ahead of Serbia by the number of privatizations cancelled and these have been cancelled in 32 cases, so that these companies will go bankrupt or liquidated. Also, it can be reported that 53 companies are in bankruptcy in the region, and nine companies are in liquidation. The result of unsuccessful privatisations – the number of unemployed has increased dramatically, so in the Užičko region, work is currently looking for 35,000 people, or unemployed workers. It is also in bankruptcy and dairy in Sevojn, so we wonder why there is no milk in Serbia today. It also hit the municipality of Arilla, which also lost about 3,000 workers through poor privatisation. There are no more of those factories by which Arile was recognizable, there is the "Color Cologne Industry", the Tricture Industry IT – Arilje, Drive "Cveta Dabić", a construction firm. All those companies hired about three thousand workers. Serbia's unemployment rate is about 21%, maybe a little higher. What's an unemployment rate? This is the percentage of the active population that makes up unemployed and employed persons from 15 to 64 years of age. The National Employment Service reports that there are around 717 000 unemployed on the unemployment records, down from last year by nine thousand and 600. These data cannot be taken as accurate, because only by negligence, if someone does not apply under the Employment Service protocol, he loses his jobless position and cannot apply for the next six months. What are the unemployment rates in Serbia? I'll only give extreme examples. Lebane – 59%, White Palanca – 58%, Batocina – 54%. These are extreme, with the highest unemployment rate, and the lowest unemployment rate is Savac – 2.4%, Old Town – 3.8%. That's why it takes the Agency to be in a small town called Ariel.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46916	One minute and 35 seconds of Parliament time. National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs from the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 2nd amendment. The word is Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46917	Mr. Novakovic, if I missed anything, I can see that the Minister's office has been missing for half an hour. Are we doing this without a minister or... ? It will be. I hope so, soon. As far as Article 2 is concerned, I think it is quite clear that the National Employment Service is unable to address the problem of unemployment and all those programmes implemented through the National Employment Service in this economic environment do not produce results. Very often, these projects that are being implemented may be even more expensive than the effects of these projects, so, generally speaking, when it comes to the National Employment Service, in this party, non-inhibiting, system mobbing that exists today in Serbia, it is more than obvious, where it is known in advance who gets the job, by which form. Like I said, most of the time it's a party form. The role of the National Employment Service is certainly not great. It is obvious that we need to change the economic policy that has been implemented over the past ten years to get into a situation where we have a significantly higher number of employees, that we have to rely much more on the real sector, we cannot rely on loans in some future period, with these last negotiations with the IMF over. As far as privatisation is concerned, and we have exhausted these opportunities, so no doubt before us the model of economic growth must change, that, as I said, we rely on the real sector, to rely on industry, to go to a reduction in public consumption and to share public consumption in the newly created value must be significantly increased so that we are in a position to create new jobs. Therefore, a complete law which, as I said, consists of two members, since the needs of Serbian citizens, given the state of employment, given the situation in the field of work – as well as the labour law is extremely problematic, we are now in a situation that, regardless of how difficult it is to get to work, a large number of employees are being scrutinised, is constantly being mobbed, and the fact that system institutions are not responding – all of this requires much more serious change, much more serious solutions, and I hope that even in this pre-election campaign, this government will come out with better solutions because what it offers is really a minimum for solving such difficult problems that have been accumulated for years.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46918	A minute and 15 seconds used by the MP's group. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. If no one is answering for a word, this concludes the search on all amendments to the draft law in particular and the National Assembly will enter into a statement in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. Before we move to the 13th agenda, just a brief notice. In 85 minutes, Serbia leads 1-0 in a friendly match. It's easier to breathe. Zigic scored. We move to the 13th point of the agenda: – PROPOST OF THE LAW ON THE AMENDMENTS AND AGENCY OF THE AGENCY FOR OSIGURJE AND FINANSIRANJE ISSUDE OF THE REPUBLIKSRBJE (in particulars) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs: Momer Marković, Radića Jocic, Radjan Mirjavić, Slađa Prelić, Nikola Žuštić, Dušanka Bjavić, Dragar Živić, Nikola Živić, Momiča Toman, Dragan Ševanovic, Goran Mihajlović, Natasaša Jovanović, Dejan Mirović, Dobrislav Prelić, Milorada Krstinović, Milorda Žažanović, Dragažanović, Nikola Žažović Zović, Momanović, Momažović Zović, Momar Žović, Momar Dukov, Momić, Momić, Momažović, Branž Dović, Branž Dović, Branimir Dović, Vesaž Dović, Vesna Martin, Vesna Markić, Vesna Martin, Vesna Martin, Vesnakić You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. The word is Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46919	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, when it comes to RS Export Finance Agency, the Serbian Government assures us that these changes will bring exporters themselves into a much better position, it seems to me that this is what is most important in changing this law, that the state, or agency, is committed to ensuring demand on the domestic market. I think the effects of this law are very small and in order to understand how insignificant the agency itself is, when it comes to Serbia's exports, I think it is necessary to hear some data. These are data for 2009, where it was, for example, when it comes to lending only 199 short-term loans, the amount of those 199m euros was 72m euros. It is an increase compared to 2008, but it is only 1.2% of Serbia's total exports. When it comes to the value of secured invoices, there are 56m euros. The fact is that this is a relatively small amount, some of the purchased claims, 44m euros, all very modest, very small in comparison to Serbia's exports, which is relatively modest, and this is very well known to you, given the state of foreign reserves in Serbia. I don't think this law will significantly improve the situation when it comes to exports and will not significantly help exporters to make Serbia more present on the world market in the coming period. It is only enough that in the world, everything you add is two or three percent, perhaps from our poor exports, that in the world about 10% of trade is secured, and in Europe the percentage is significantly higher. The security of the claim is up to 30%. I would say this bill, I would say, has essentially the same character as the previous one, that by moving this agency's headquarters to Uzice, it wants to convince us that it is thinking about regional development, that this party itself, the bloc itself, means some improvement in the further development of all regions in Serbia, and that it is essentially just how to collect some political points, which unfortunately has more and more. Such conduct is becoming more evident both in the work of the congregation and in the laws that come before the Republic of the congregation. I'd like to ask you, Mr. Novakovic, if you could at least give me some information on what's going on with Madam Minister. I didn't take part in any negotiations. Are we going to continue our work without her?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46920	Thank you. One minute and 40 seconds. Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46921	Mr President, you are known not only to me but to all our fellow Members of the People, but also to the general public, who, on rare occasions, can monitor direct transfers of sessions of the National Assembly and to hear, which respects certain rules, established procedure. If someone said you weren't the one, I'd stand up to him and I'd say that's not true. I simply don't care where the minister is now, who is as an alternative solution here, appeared instead of Minister Dinkic, because what I would know, it is her private matter, but as a MP, in accordance with Article 89, I suggest you interrupt the session of the Assembly, or to schedule a follow-up tomorrow at some appropriate time, and now it really doesn't make sense. It is the discretionary right of the chairman to schedule a start, although the Rules of Procedure found that it starts on the working day at 10.00 hours, you scheduled today for 12.00 hours and that was not the problem. At the beginning of the session, there was no quorum, and we endured it, and we started working this afternoon, so no one even knows how long it's gonna last, and that's not the problem. We'd be there for the rest of us as long as there were working conditions. Since there are no government representatives, you well know, like us, that it is not possible to continue the session of the Assembly. I hope you make a decision in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, so thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46922	I thank you there is no harm to the Rules of Procedure, especially that member you did not call, and that was your obligation, so we continue to work. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Mr. Sreto Peric advertises the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46923	Mr. Chairman, there is now a possibility that we can only hold off for one more time, based on advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure, another possibility that we may continue the work is gone. Yes, I'm referring to Article 27. At this moment you are changing the president of the National Assembly and it is your duty to take care of the proper application of this Rules of Procedure. I have only read to you the provisions of this article of our 89th Rules of Procedure which indicate what is your obligation as chairman and before your obligation, the government's obligation is to send its representative who, on behalf of the Government, represents a point on the agenda. We know exactly what we're discussing here right now. We're not, as one of our colleagues said, senile, but in order to be senile, he has to learn something first. The SRS was in power during another period, and not during that period when one of its colleagues first called. Now it's less important. Please bring our work into line with the rules of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46924	There is no violation of the provisions of Article 27 and of course I am trying to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure. There's a minister and he'll be here when he gets into the O.R. Are you satisfied with my explanation?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46925	Mr. Chairman, I'm only going to do it one more time and then you probably know the people's – smarter discounts, I almost said older discounts. I expect you to make a very correct move. We want to be correct not because of the government, and even less because of the minister who is here, but because of the citizens who chose us, you need to give minimum information and say that the minister who is sitting here today will be here in five or ten minutes. We know what's reasonable. If you can give us such an answer we'll be tolerated for so much, if there isn't, then it really doesn't make sense for you to move here over us. You were one of the ones who voted for these laws that we adopted to respect.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46926	You'll get this information as soon as we find out. The service is on its way to check it out. I ask you, are you satisfied with my previous explanations regarding your claim that I hurt the Rules of Procedure or not? Your right to say yes or no.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46927	What do you think I'm gonna say now?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46928	You're pleased. Thank you, Mr. Perry. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Radisa Ilic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46929	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 1 with a proposal to replace the word "Glass" with the word "Paracin." The current headquarters of the Agency for Insurance and Export Finance is in New Belgrade, but we hope that representatives of the government who are not here will accept the amendment and the agency's headquarters will move to Paracino. In this case, the government held to those regional divisions that caused major controversy in Serbia and which the SRS considers to be very bad and harmful for the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. What we are trying to achieve with the amendments is to overcome these regional divisions, these invisible borders and move Belgrade's headquarters to the municipality headquarters, but not the region. This is how you slowly make some quasiautonoms that will eventually turn into something that no one normal in Serbia wants. Paracin is in Serbia's central position. It is located along the highway and crosses the roads for both eastern Serbia and Zaječar, then the roads to Kruševac, Čačak and Kraljevo. It is indeed a good solution to accept this amendment. As far as exports are concerned, statistics from the Bureau of Statistics are extremely devastating and this agency with this kind of economy and with this kind of economic policy will not be celebrated much. While I have already called on statistics, here's one piece of information where we're going, where our exports are, and the 2008 data from Serbia, as far as you know, Serbia is a agricultural country, but Serbia makes more money than the export of hulahop socks than on the export of corn. It is the former success of the Agency for Insurance and Financing of Exports of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Chairman, I must tell you that I will probably lose tonight's bet. I bet my colleague that the government's representatives would speak at least one word tonight, but I was wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46930	Thank you, Mr. Ilic. I don't think the Assembly is the place for that kind of game. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP Dušanka Plečević.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46931	I propose by amendment that the head office of the Agency for Insurance and Export Financing be moved to Bor. The explanation for not accepting the amendment is pointless. You claim that the region of Šumadija and Western Serbia, apart from the region of southern and eastern Serbia, is underdeveloped, in which the value of GDP is below the value of the republican average. Why would the Western Serbian region be favored in relation to the eastern Serbian region? Under these criteria, any region in Serbia would be suitable for the deployment of such large and numerous vain agencies. Formally, seat-seating wouldn't change anything in the development of the region. The government resorts to such barren combinations because there is no real investment in Serbia's economic development. In addition to Belgrade and Novi Sad, the remainder of Serbia could be only one region in principle. If you have already formed various agencies as para-state authorities to take care of your party personnel, even though we in the SRS believe that the jobs that are entrusted to these agencies should be carried out in the relevant ministries, then this agency should be moved to Bor. The municipality of Bor and the mining-topic base Bor as the bearer of economic development throughout the region have all the advantages. It is primarily promised 450m euros by Minister Dinkic in a campaign ahead of the repeat local elections in Bor this year for a new copper smelter, which would mean more production and export of the strategic product. On the basis of these promises, the G 17 plus party also received the most votes in Bor and citizens expect the promise to be realised. The best way to make a promise and make it happen is for these agencies to move to Bor in order to immediately see the effect of moving. The second reason, not less significant, is that it would make it easier for government representatives to control how 122.3 million dinars are spent so-called. start-ap loans given before the local elections in June in Bora and whether they are in function of exports. These are essentially irrefutable reasons to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46932	Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Marina Toman submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46933	And this law, as well as the law that we discussed domestically, is proof that the state is at the bottom and that the political system in the state no longer exists or is absolutely in the function of a party that changed its name and is now in turn. These are for us agencies and bodies representing the parallel state institutions and which the state of Serbia because of the economic problems it has fallen into and which it was expected to shut down because of the budgetary balance that is necessary in the coming years this Serbia should have shut down, because the purpose and purpose of its existence has never been justified so far. It cost the state, and our exports didn't get any security or promotion from all this. What this state, this assembly and this home and this assembly majority should have done are legal projects and measures that will provide liquidity, which will simplify procedures, which will provide exporters with legal and any other security, which will deal in one serious and fundamental way with the real sector, i.e. small and medium-sized enterprises, those who are holders of economic life and at the end of this country's exports. Instead of dealing with them, looking for political arrangements and compromises, we deal with nonsense. We are in the position of state institutions to promote one party. They exploited the National Employment Service, exploited the IRS. When the capacities of these two institutions are exhausted until the end, new branches, new funds are now being created, new agencies are being created that will be exclusively in the function of one party. I say, and once again, it's not the worst thing that anyone in the government has come up with, the worst thing about it is that the rest of the ruling coalition has accepted this political compromise, subdued the entire state and the system of the interests of one party and one man.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46934	A 15-second parliamentary group has been used. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46935	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, I hope you will have a chance at a delayed transmission to see how this session has to end today. You also had the opportunity to hear from Mr. Stevanovic that it is a shame that the ruling majority will accept all of this. Behind this, respected Serbian citizens are hiding a new party, which is the United Regions Party. Absolutely... (President: Please tell the truth. There's no such thing as a party. ) The very fact that only Mr. Novakovic from the G17 Plus party is present here speaks for it enough, but well, maybe it's justified. Neither does Minister Jasna Matic. They may celebrate with Mr Dinkic buying an apartment of 353,000 euros. If so, then we understand. It is certainly export and that this export agency will have no effect and we are convinced that everything the SRS has been saying has come true today. First of all, I'm thinking about our agriculture and that instead of exporting it, it's the only business branch where we're making a surplus, we're in a situation where we have to import milk. This makes it clear how much this country thinks about agriculture and that this agency has so far failed to justify its work. It will not justify it in the future, and I am sure that the citizens of Serbia will fall for another fraud in the next elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46936	The People's MP Milorad Krstin submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46937	Instead of discussing the export strategy tonight and all the elements of that strategy, we are talking about a cosmetic change that will basically not bring any shift. That the export situation is dramatically said by indicators back ten years, and before that was the case in the foreign trade deficit. He has grown so much over the past ten years to accept such a situation that a normal, modern state has no choice. It must find strategic ways of export policy. This country has no strategic direction of export policy. For a short period of time, I'll only provide technical data. The external trade deficit since 2001 is going to be around 600m euros, 2005 -- four billion 831m, 2008 -- eight billion 152m, 2009 -- something reduced, but we still have this trend of serious foreign trade deficit. What should concern society as a whole is that in those traditional activities that had serious export results, Serbia has always had a huge surplus in foreign trade during the last 200 years, especially at the turn of the 19th and 20th centuries, which is exports of pigs and pigmeat to the Western market, where we were dominant, today we have disastrous results. Here are the figures for 2009 – we imported 4,400 tonnes of pig meat, and we exported 570 tonnes, almost seven or eight times more. This year's even more catastrophic. In nine months, according to the Bureau of Statistics and the Chamber of Commerce, we imported 7,000 tons of pig meat, and we exported only 475 tons. What awaits us in 2011, 2012, 2013? Here's another piece of information that shows a dramatic drop in exports. These are data on the participation of exports to GDP. Since 1989, the share of exports to GDP has been 51%, in 1998, 47%, and this falls to 18% by 2009. These are your export indicators. What makes this data that I've provided and all the other data relating to our exports to liquidity and insolvency business problems make them go away? Until you make a strategy for economic development, until you make an export strategy there's no improvement in this country. These are all cosmetic changes. They're meaningless, and everything that's happening right now you're avoiding, you're running away from it. Unfortunately, the population and citizens of RS suffer in hopelessness, and all of this is the fault of the current government.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46938	A minute and 40 seconds of MP time has been used. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46939	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to the proposal for a law on the Agency for Insurance and Financing of RS Sources. I asked my amendment to move that agency's headquarters from Uzic to the city of Nis, from which I came. Of course, that's what I asked for when I looked at the explanation and what it says in the bill and the law that we discussed before this law. It says that the region of Šumadija and the region of western Serbia belongs to less developed regions, i.e. to remind not only that Belgrade and the Vojvodina region are the areas with a degree of development that is above the republican average. Now, all of a sudden, I see information from here that these regions, which fall into less developed regions, are participating in Serbia's total exports with 25% or, more specifically, around $2 billion and $100 million. I come from the region of southern Serbia, as I said, from Nis, and where I am fortunate that the region from which I come is 25% of Serbia's exports, regardless of what the region of Southeast Serbia is, in a geographical sense, perhaps slightly less than half of Serbia. There's not only exports, there's hardly any production. There are a large number of municipalities in the region of Southeastern Serbia where there is no production, about exporting that I do not speak, perhaps symbolically in the cities of Piroth, the factory "Tiger" Pirot, and something in Vranje, otherwise, other places and other factories from southern Serbia and products and, of course, they cannot export. To return to your explanation, Kragujevac is said to be the geographical center of Serbia, which it is geographically, but Užice is not. But because this is about exports, the town of Nis is the geographical centre of the Balkans, and here it represents a serious reference and a serious assumption that this seat from Užica is being transferred to the town of Nis. So I would ask here the only representative of the government to reconsider this amendment of mine and try to convince his partners and his superiors of the government and the ruling majority to accept this amendment. In the end, I must say that I lost my bet because I bet with my colleague Ilic that Minister Jasna Matic will come within a reasonable period here in the Assembly, as my dear colleague Peric said, in advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46940	One minute and 20 seconds. I repeat, the Assembly is no place for that kind of game. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MP Vesna Maric submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The First Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. The word is Mr. Acimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46941	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Agency for the Insurance and Financing of Exports of the Republic of Serbia. In Article 1(2), paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The bill of law is replaced by the word "Glass" in the word "Glass." The SRS considers that the most significant exports of agricultural products, which, unfortunately, the state does not export, are imports and create problems for farmers on a daily basis, by accident or on purpose, but the fact is that they are very difficult to live. Their hard life and decline in production The government has been monitoring and helping tycoons to import meat a few years old, milk and anything that threatens domestic products. Due to the very difficult life in the municipality of Bogatić, where agricultural production is represented by more than 90% and citizens' responsibilities are increasing from day to day, I believe this is a way to achieve the dislocation of jobs and the increased involvement of human resources from regional centres, which is the aim of the proposed change of seats. The amendment proposes that the Agency's headquarters be in a place that I consider to be a prerequisite for including human resources, while addressing the problem of unemployment in that place and the environment, as well as incentives for exports from that location that would set an example for all others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46942	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Here you go, Mr. Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46943	On the proposal for a law on the Agency for Insurance and Financing of Exports of the Republic of Serbia, which is on the agenda today, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1(2). Proposal. With this amendment, I ask for the headquarters of the Belgrade Agency for Insurance and Financing of Exports to Valjevo, the centre of the Kolubar district. If the efforts made by you from the government are sincere, which we in the SRS really rightly suspect is that you want equal regional development in the future, then there are all the reasons for you to move the headquarters of this agency from Belgrade to Valjevo. This would result in the better use of human resources and other potentials of your government and your authority for the last ten years at least neglected. We only remember that when you came to power ten years ago you simply competed in statements that you would quickly resolve the issues of the victims in the catastrophic earthquake that this district hit in 1998. Go now, after 12 years, to the villages of Kolubar County, so the citizens will tell you clearly what they think of you. All of you in today's government swore before the elections that agriculture is our number one chance, when it comes to exporting, and the entire Colubarian district is devoid of fruit production, organic food production and everything that buyers in the West are looking for in Russia and around the world. But what's it worth? According to the Regional Chamber of Commerce of Valjev, only last year was the total foreign trade exchange of companies from the area covered by the chamber almost 24% lower than the year before. The potential for production and export and the Kolubar County are enormous, it just takes a little more will to accept my amendment and the headquarters of the Export Agency to move to Valjevo.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46944	National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Master Zivanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46945	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I say MPs, but I see how many of us are in this room, or how many are interested in discussing this very important and important law. There in the corner probably Hope Kolundzie with his MP group is conducting some kind of dialogue, preparing to discuss the law afterwards. I submitted this amendment in a great desire to move the insurance and financing agency of the Republic of Serbia from Užica to Sabac, which is because in western Serbia, Sabac is a centre around which infrastructure, when I say infrastructure, is also connected with the countries with which we signed in a CEFTA contract that we can export our products. Unfortunately, it seems to me, and I'm afraid this agency doesn't want to cover the criminal trail of those who, like that trade lobby, could have imported everything into Serbia today. You heard my colleagues debate and say what is being imported into Serbia today. Serbia is safe, you have to believe me, one of the largest producers in Europe healthy food, but we are not using this healthy food and not eating our citizens, but we are eating the waste of Europe that has been in the freezers for many years, and we are, unfortunately, using it today and eating it in Serbia. You saw how the chicken from Argentina, Brazil, came through Kosovo, through Bondsteel. It was on our citizens' tables because it's cheap. They do not ask, but in a desire to provide their children with at least one piece of meat for one meal, they take everything and everything. Did you ever wonder how the biggest crime operation was done, but apparently it wasn't done in the end, which is the biggest sugar cat? At that time, many who were on the government's team today were washing their hands, saying, "It's in the hands of the federal government." We know well who all these ministers participated in such criminal operations. Ladies and gentlemen, this has to stop. It seems to me, the only man today who can stop it and who is likely to stop this, and all that has happened in Serbia for the past ten years, is the hero of Serbia, Professor Vojislav Seselj, with his SRS and his ideology. In this way as the economy collapses, and as you said on October 5th that exports will flow to peasants from their fields -- those who need to buy goods from peasants will come to their plots and buy without mediators. I ask you, today is the trade lobby, see how the wheat from Chechnya was purchased, which is radioactively irradiated and which is actually cattle wheat, which is placed in the stock reserves, which will be sent to help bakers and mills to stop the price of bread collection, and what is in the stock reserves, are you actually exporting it? Unfortunately, Serbia is threatening to starve. What's in the fields today and what's being harvested or harvested, corn, that still saves you from being in these places where you are. To cover this, this government nelados, the incompetence of the government and ministers, to cover the inadequacy of the legislative body, the most important, and this is the Assembly, Mr. Novakovic, we have seen today what your power is. This young lady is the only one left here who listens to us all the time, but she's probably not competent to answer certain questions. We can't expect that from her, the answers, but where are the others who underestimated us, humiliated the MPs of the SRS who are actually talking about this problem tonight? It's a picture and opportunity of today's government.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46946	With this pledoa, the time foreseen for the discussion of the SRS was spent. It's Mrs. Kolundji's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46947	Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MPs of the DS Group have considered all these amendments and all we can suggest since 50 MPs of the SRS have submitted 50 amendments with a proposal to set up a seat in 50 different cities, we suggest that you agree to set up a city, to suggest this to us, and then in the day of voting, we will very seriously consider this proposal. What we're seeing here right now is actually an attempt to disenfranchise the entire work, because if one parliamentary group proposes 50 different seats, then no one should be explained what this is about. None of you have suggested for a reason some of the cities, but it's just that the need to spend this time. As far as we're concerned, we're going to sit as long as you think you should tell stories that don't make any sense and no one can conclude anything, and especially one who should possibly take the amendments you're talking about seriously.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46948	Thank you, Mrs. Kolundjia. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milan Veselinovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Krasic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dragan Todorovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milan Avramovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Slobodan Vukovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you are, Mrs. Paunović Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46949	With this amendment, we wanted to help the citizens of the Kings, but you, despite your daily promises to help the King in any way, did not accept this amendment. This law will not bring any better to the citizens of Užica, nor to the citizens of western Serbia. Poverty, underdevelopment of production and exports will continue to be the smallest in Serbia, although the government is trying to convince the public, experienced businessmen and experts that our economy is actually more vital than the economies of other countries in the region. This has been discussed by various indicators, such as unemployment, which is 31% in Serbia, or the largest in the region. Then, eight billion dollars of Serbian exports were enough to place Serbia 86th of the 223 countries. The Czech Republic, which is Serbia-like by size and population, last year had exports of as much as $160 billion, Slovakia 45, Bulgaria 16.3 billion, and you should worry that many countries from Africa, Asia and Central America have passed us. Domestic exports account for only 20% of GDP, while in other countries the percentage is higher than 50%. Serbia exports thousands of dollars per capita, and the Czech Republic 10 times over, or ten thousand dollars. Serbia is at the bottom of countries in the region with less than 20% of GDP exports. This, the respected citizens of Serbia, doesn't make any sense, because if this is what this is all about, then we don't need this ministry at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46950	It's Mrs. Kolundji's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46951	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it wouldn't be bad if there were less hypocrisy and a little more honesty, then the citizens of Serbia could know that this is supposed to be an effort to help the Royals taste distasteful because of the fact that this amendment was filed before the catastrophic earthquake in the King. I think it's distasteful to try to introduce myself as someone who, by submitting this amendment before it happened, is trying to help the King.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46952	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. There's no reason for replication. Everyone's making their views known. It's a nice debate, no matter what. No one was mentioned, no one said something offensive. By amendment to the First People's MP Peter Jojic, does anyone answer for a word? (No) The People's MP Lidija Vukicevic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. There's no answer for word. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46953	Dear citizens, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to take the opportunity to remind the head of the Democratic Party's parliamentary club of dialogue here in this assembly, only in that building across the street, when I spoke after the international forces arrived in Kosovo and Metohija that the eyes of the Serb people were against Belgrade, that she had come out and told me then, and she was a representative of Covic's party, that Serbs should look at Pristina rather than Belgrade. For this reason, I believe that this is one of the laws that is of a political nature, which has no basis for legislation, nor will it do anything, nor will it speed up the improvement of Serbian citizens, but only to satisfy one idea, one incompetent economist that destroys the economy and the economy of the Serbian state. I suggest moving the headquarters of this agency, although we are against any agency, especially this export agency, because there is no export. If we just take the information that seven times last year we have less exports than imports of pig meat, watch out in that branch where we should have much more exports than imports, that this year we have 14 times that imports of pig meat more than we exported, etc. So the question is, what is it that we can control as exports? Well, we could control what happens every day, here is back five or six months, and maybe even years of exporting it from Kosovo and Metohija, and that's the concentrate that's in the Trepca Combinate.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46954	The word has a letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46955	The Honorable Chairman, there is a need for dialogue for people who are first and foremost telling the truth. That's why I've never been in a dialogue with anyone who's been engaged in demagogy and untrue, so it's also true that I've ever said anything similar to what you've said, but what I've said and what's the fact is that the policy of the 1990s and your policy has led to the fact that Serbs are unfortunately left to Pristina.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46956	Thirty seconds have taken advantage of the time of the president of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46957	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am proposing that the seat of the Agency for the Insurance and Financing of Exports of the Republic of Serbia be moved to Prokuplje. Although after the two-hour absence of the minister from the O.R., with the utmost respect for the lady sitting at the minister's post, I think Mr. Novakovic has denied us the answer when Ms. Jasna Matic will come to the hearing. The SRS parliamentary group is tolerant and full of understanding for your state, any private obligation, but we don't have an understanding of the robbery of citizens. Feel free to tell us if Mrs. Minister and Minister Dinkic is at some celebration, say, for the purchase of his 350,000-euro apartment, then we understand in a small way that you are violating the Rules of Procedure, but we do not justify it at all. Some arguments about the rich potential of Toplička district and Prokuplja as a centre I cited in a discussion of the previous law. Now, in order to achieve a balanced regional development, it is also time for the forgotten Toplička district to be seen by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which would seem motivated for citizens and businessmen and encouraged small and medium-sized enterprises to opt for production and strengthening exports through the strengthening of agriculture, as our strategic basic development prospects. In this way, development conditions would be created in order to deal economically with both this region and the surrounding districts, as Serbia, because of the uncontrolled borrowing of people in power, is in a serious debt crisis, where as much as 40% of the revenues from exporting goods and services go to cover external debt. That's terrible.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46958	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the people Gordana Pop Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46959	I have tabled an amendment to the proposed amendments to the Law on the Agency for Insurance and Financing of Exports to the Republic of Serbia. I hope that my argument will satisfy those who think that what we in the SRS are talking about is some kind of demagogy. Namely, I suggested that in Article 1st paragraph 2, the word "Glass" be replaced by the word "Arily." They repeat once again that the SRS is for decentralisation, but through strong local self-government, even development, a strong state we don't have right now. I therefore propose this amendment for the Export Insurance Agency to be in Ariel, in a place that is preceded by export results and makes an exceptional contribution to the export of the Republic of Serbia. It would also contribute to an example for the entire environment and would increase employment in the region. The government remembers agriculture when it is difficult, so it boasts about exports, says this year the agricultural exports will be around three billion euros and the surplus of a billion euros. In the structure of agricultural products exports after corn, the second place is raspberries with exports in the first six months of 200m euros. Arile is the centre of raspberries for Serbia, Europe and beyond.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46960	Two minutes. Thank you. National MP Ognjen Mihajlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46961	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, officials in Serbia are convinced that by moving several services from Belgrade to other places, it will raise regional competitiveness. So they decided that the future headquarters of the Agency for Insurance and Export Finance of the Republic of Serbia will be in Uzic. The reason to justify such an intention was that the economy of the Zlatibor County recorded an external trade surplus of over 100m euros annually and participated with 13% in Serbia's total exports. The amendment I submitted to the SRS and proposed that, in order to raise the competitiveness of the Jablanic district, the Agency's headquarters be in Leskovac. The Jablani district faces great difficulties, both in the economy in general and in exporting what is produced. According to the Regional Chamber of Commerce in Leskovac, exports of goods and services to Jablanic and Pcinjska County fell by 27% in 2009. Export coverage is over 73% and the best export effect is recorded in the wood processing industry. The surplus is also recorded in the agricultural and food industry, the production of drinks and tobacco and wood processing. During 2010, exporters of agricultural products faced new difficulties due to changes to the rules that have come into force since New Year's Eve. In the woodworking agricultural professional service, it was said that free exports also include appropriate certificates of use of chemical products in production. Although producers have made export contracts for agricultural products, now the situation at border crossings is much different than last year...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46962	Two minutes, thank you. National MP Vladan Jeremic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Sreto Perić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46963	The composition, form and type of state bodies have been governed by parties in power, but since the raven blacked out, it has never been such a situation, an extremely political stance to move certain state authorities' headquarters from Belgrade to other places. The agency for the acceleration of exports and for the development of exports reminds me of the Hungarian Navy, and you say Hungary has no sea, well, there is no Serbian exports either. He's not here because of you who've been in power for 10 years. And if you, Mrs. Kolundjia, or your party, who is dominant in your coalition, could make one balance, then today it would be clear to everyone in Serbia, or there would be no milk shortage. It wasn't that long ago, among other things, because Mr. Zivanovic and Prelic speak this emotionally when agricultural topics are concerned, farmers have spread milk, and now we don't have enough milk. It's only because the unreasonable decision of your government made to import milk powder, which was somewhat cheaper than it could be domestic. Then that's why we have a situation like this today. You don't know how to balance, you don't look long-term, you don't try to fool those you've managed, I hope for the last time, in the last parliamentary elections to thank them in one way, and that would be to organize production, or to organize their lives, or at least to help them a little. You won't, because if they were aware, if their standard of living were something higher, then they wouldn't even show you help and support, but every time you managed to bring them into hopelessness, and just before the elections to trick them, so that they would give you that voice, then you'd do it all the way back in the next period. What we export, which is very small quantities, we export in the lowest degree of raw materials, we export as raw materials. Ma'am, I'm embarrassed that I can't ask you...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46964	Two minutes. National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment, the People's Parliament of the Faith of Radet submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? National MP Sreto Peric has been reported. You want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46965	Mrs. Komic, I couldn't wait for you to come, because you really are one of the vice presidents who takes care of the procedures we have established ourselves. I just want to ask you, we won't be lenient for a long time, I won't use two minutes to ask you if you are in progress, do you know where the Minister who was appointed by the Government, Article 27, is that on behalf of her representative here and represents laws that are on the agenda and that we will have a chance to see the Minister at all, and it's not the most important after exactly 60 or 120 seconds to say it – the time has elapsed.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46966	As regards the first remarks, on the care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, authorised representative of the Government of Minister Jasna Matic, who was today, and for her, as well as any other participant of the session, the rule applies that she may, from time to time, not attend the session for her own reasons and return when she performs the tasks she can and with the presence of the sitting. Business conditions are met. As for your two-minute remarks, there are no negotiations on the application of the rules. You have two minutes of the Rules of Procedure at your disposal, and so do you, as well as any other MP. If you think for any reason that a member of the SRS parliamentary group is entitled to two minutes and 30 seconds or two minutes and 15 seconds, then we did not understand each other in reading the Rules of Procedure and the sentences that the time available for the interpretation of the amendment is two minutes. Do you want the Assembly to plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yes or no? Are you satisfied with the explanation or not? Thank you. Please don't throw it away. People's MP Suleiman Spaho, you're violating the Rules of Procedure and you're acting against a decree that forbids you to throw in during the session, and it obliges me to give you a warning measure. I'm warning you. MP Suleiman Spaho continues to cast. I ask you not to promote the proscration of the congregation, not by gesture, not by words. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46967	Ladies and gentlemen, economists claim there's a real possibility in this country of breaking her external liquidity. They even move on, saying that something similar could happen to the state of Serbia in 1982 to the then Yugoslavia, when there was an absolute breakdown of that external liquidity. The fact that the IMF is leaving Serbia will make potential investors very careful. What's an epilogue of that? One, the lack of foreign investment, two, dinar weakness, three, further inflation growth. Every single situation for itself is a terrible thing, a lack of foreign investment, a terrible, dinar weakness, a terrible, inflation growth, a terrible thing, and all three cumulatively, really black without any white. What's the cure for this? What's the therapy, increased exports? However, there is no increase in exports. One study discusses Serbia's exports so far. It's easy to see that exports are minimal. There's no mention of kim, but that's what someone else does. Let me remind you, "The Voice of America" in Serbian says -- the Serbian blockade interferes with Kosovo's economy and Kosovo's exports. He further says -- after crossing the Merdar border, Kosovo drivers must stop in no one's country. Look out, no one's land, and with a full mouth says one quasi-Serb. Furthermore, he determines that Serbia's exports to Kosovo are 220m and that it is the second exporter after Macedonia. What does the government say about this? Will Uzice be out of these streams when you move the Agency there? Looks like she's moving just to keep it all out of these streams.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46968	Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. Does anyone want a word? MP Suleiman Spaho.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46969	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, I just got word from a colleague. Ms. Minister is currently here in the Assembly, as I was informed, watching the game and it is under the impression that Serbia has won, will now come. I'm so informed.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46970	I'm warning you, you're talking about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46971	Just so we know where the minister is.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46972	I remind you that you are under an obligation to listen to the warnings given to you by the chairman. For the second time, I warn you that your conduct is the reason for the demeaning of the reputation of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46973	In Article 1 The bill of law is replaced by the word "Locks." Serbian exports fall year after year. We can see that from the following data. In 1989. 51% of GDP, 1995. 41%, 2000. 37% and 2009. 18%. These data clearly speak of a steep drop in exports, and if we add both the decline in industry and agricultural production, we can see the tragedy of the situation in which Serbia is located. Can these indicators change? In any case, I can't do it as long as this unnatural government is a coalition. The authorities in Loznica are also unnatural and whenever we try to let them know that Loznica should be a place where something is going to happen, here's the opportunity, they haven't spoken out, so now I'm saying this time and I'm saying that Loznica is the place where it should come in order and finance the exports of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. The Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46974	National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs from the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46975	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Article 2 relating to the Export Insurance and Financing Agency refers to the insurance and collection of claims on the domestic market. A brand-new institute and a brand-new right of this agency that it has not had so far, which in the government's explanation clearly indicates that the government is fully aware that today in Serbia and that we have a messy payment between business entities, and that we have an excess of the time limit in payment and that the insolvency of the economy is extremely high. Given all the major problems we have in Serbia's economy today, it was quite logical to come up with some solutions that would allow all economic operators on Serbia's territory to operate as efficiently as possible, not to create this law and these legal solutions simply legal inequality between one and the other economic operators in Serbia. The first ones, who have the right to export and because for ten years we have deceived Serbian citizens that we have adequate exports and that we will manage to preserve foreign reserves and exchange rates, and after 10 years of transition, to sell out everything that has been acquired for generations, over-indebted with over 30 billion euros, we have come into the situation that because of a very small inflow of foreign currency we are making the difference between businesses in Serbia. It is impossible to come to the National Assembly with such anti-market measures, where individuals are privileged, where state-owned loved ones are created, and these proposals suggest that in Serbia, in the future, we can expect even greater differences between large and small companies, because the privileges of such a legal solution can only be given by large companies. You had the opportunity to offer some liquidity in 2009, when it comes to the liquidity of the economy, the government has offered some funds for liquidity and that most of these funds have been used by companies that are very close to the government and which are in some way monopolies in Serbia, and that all of this country's inability to deal with business and economic policy is being broken over the back of small and medium-sized enterprises. We already have a big problem with this agency. The agency's business is completely non-transparent. We don't know who or how credit comes today when it comes to the Agency for Insurance and Export Finance. In this way, the discretionary rights of the agency will be further increased. On the other hand, what we've been talking about is the fact that today we have a very messy payment by wholesalers, shops and large manufacturers who, across the back of small businesses and small and medium-sized enterprises, come to trade and drive this very small economy, which is a completely national economy, on which we should base ourselves, into bankruptcy, into bankruptcy. We have a factoring institute that could solve the demand problem at the level of Serbia as a whole. Whether or not there are conditions for the development of factoring in Serbia today, this is the problem of this government, but this is the way in which through the factoring institution, all businesses today in Serbia are being reduced, to reach medium funds, to avoid high loans paid today by Serbia's economy. As far as this solution is concerned, it should be in favour of the exporter. It completely abandons the export-substituting economy and in some ways repairs the foreign exchange balance and payments in Serbia. As I said, this solution, this way of thinking puts states in a position to decide who can survive on the market and who has to fail. This is what is not allowed in the organisation of the market and in Serbia's economic life at all. That's what's unacceptable for SNS. With this amendment, we sought to draw attention not to go with solutions like this in the future because the consequences will be devastating in the future in the economy of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46976	Three minutes and 30 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Before I conclude the examination of the bill in particular, does anyone who has not applied their right want to say the word? No, I don't. ) Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general in the voting day. We are moving to the 14th point of the agenda: – PROPOST OF THE LAW OF THE AMENDMENTS OF THE FOND FOR THE RIBLIK OF SRBJA (individence) You have received amendments submitted on the proposal of the Law by the Members of the people: Tomislav Nikolić, Jorvanka Tabaković, Zoran Antić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Božidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Oto Kišmarton, Milan Knezević, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Nemljana Miladović, Borisa Pošanović, Mileta Pošanović, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Včeta Tošković and Dragan Čolić, Srđan Spasović, Nemjana Šarović, Nemija Miljan Miljan Miljan Miljavić, Zaljanović, Žaljanović, Žaljanjavić, Žaljanović, Žaljanović, Žaljanović, Žaljanović, Drag, Drag, Drag, Mirjavić Poš, Mirjavić, Slavić, Mir, Miražakić, Mražić, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mirkožak, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Vžažak, Vžak, Vić, Vić, Vić, Vić, V. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. You have received reports from the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with the Foreign and Legislative Committee. Did the Legislative Committee give an opinion? No, I don't. So you haven't received a report. There's a mistake in the script. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Antić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46977	Mrs. Comic, I don't know if you're mad at the radicals, but I don't know why you're mad at us advanceds, at least we haven't submitted similar amendments. Here's two hours, we have no information on whether any of the ministers are coming or not, and I'm asking you to do something about it. Now we'd like to talk about the amendment a little bit, I hope in the meantime we get some justification. This kind of cynicism, I don't think it resembles the National Assembly at all, and there's no need to talk about dignity. I'd just like to say that in Article 1, what's the SNS's intensity is that we think the Fund should expand its performance. We believe that in Serbia today we have an extremely big problem in the area of agriculture. Large in this sense, nearly 50% of the losses of the overall economy today in Serbia wastes on agriculture and agriculture is in a catastrophic situation, the loss of the entire economy, I have data from 2009, amounting to 95 billion dinars, and agriculture is 45 billion dinars. If you have the fact that agriculture in the previous year, meaning in 2009 compared to 2008, had a growth in income, and at the same time had a significant increase in costs and that this so great increase in costs resulted in these huge losses, then you can understand how difficult agriculture is today. We have today in agriculture, and this is increasing year by year, increasing price diversity, increasingly expensive production inputs, and this agricultural sector, the agricultural company simply can't take it anymore. In agriculture, 1,900 companies made that loss of 45 billion dinars. On the other hand, you have a total number of companies, so the total economy in Serbia is 89,000 companies, these others mean 87,000 made the second half of the losses in Serbia today. This best shows how bad and difficult the situation in agriculture is today. As much as today's capital engagement costs are in agriculture, it amounts to about 22% of the data I found. The very few trade assets we have today in agriculture and agriculture are increasingly dependent on credit, and the price of these loans, interest on these loans, is extremely large and this is very well known to the entire public of Serbia. As a result, the SNS decided to intervene in this amendment that the Development Fund should allocate part of the funds for agriculture. We don't have to play with agriculture. A very large number of our citizens today depend on agriculture. Just another piece of information that agriculture has lost about a billion and seven hundred million euros of its value in five or four years. There are many arguments to accept this SNS amendment. Unfortunately, as I said earlier, there is no one to decide, no one to hear. I mean the Ministry's representatives. It's a great honor for my colleagues in power, from the ruling majority, but somehow I got the impression that much greater influence on the acceptance of amendments has ministers, ministries than most in the assembly do.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46978	Two minutes and 25 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs from the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46979	I have no intention of letting you finish so quickly. When it comes to Article 2, we have yet another attempt by this mentioned party to form the headquarters of the Development Fund in this case to move to Nis. We have yet another attempt to form exposure within this Fund. That's what almost all the opposition colleagues were judging. That's what was the motive for the SNS to submit this amendment to delete this member. We feel that there is no need today, when the electronic government should also be revived, without talking about that communication via the Internet is and how it has lived in almost all economic operators in Serbia, to decide in this political way on the headquarters of an institution. It's not a problem where the institution's seat is. As far as we're concerned, it's not a problem for her to be in Nis. For us, the problem is that these funds the Fund has to use as efficiently as possible. The next SNS amendments will show that this does not seem to be in the interest of all Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46980	National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojić Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46981	I have submitted an amendment to take the second paragraph of Article 2. The bill of the word – Niša replaces the word – Valjev. The government did not accept this amendment, with a reason that the Fund's headquarters and its migration to Nis are proposed for reasons of deconcentration of state institutions and the approximation of services to persons in less developed areas. This argument is contrary to the intention of the Fund to move to Valjevo, which I suggested my amendment. If you intend to solve the problems of underdevelopment or less developed areas in economic terms by moving the Fund to Nis, then in my opinion Valjevo has all the conditions in your explanation. Valjevo is the seat of Kolubar County, which is located next to the Municipality of Valjevo has five other municipalities – Osijek, Ub, Lajkovac, Mininica and Ljig. I remind the government and MPs that no damage has been recovered from the earthquake that took place in 1998 with the epicenter in Mionica, which hit all six municipalities of the Kolubar district and that this is one of the reasons why the Development Fund should move to Valjevo. In this way, the Fund would be in a region that has experienced a natural disaster, which has been economically destroyed and forgotten by this government and government.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46982	On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Gordana Pop Lazic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46983	Why the King and not Nis? Why the King, and not the Grills? Why the King, not the Kragujean? That's all the questions I'd like to answer within these two minutes. Why there's this debate in detail. Today, I hope we don't discuss these amendments tomorrow. The SRS knows that the government has considered the amendments on 28 October this year. But unfortunately, on the night between the 2nd and 3rd, there was an earthquake that we really regret, and which is why no one liked to talk about it, nor would it like that to happen, but unfortunately, what happened and we feel that it is not hypocritical to talk, and we believe that this session exists precisely because between the moment the amendments were tabled and the moment they were discussed, the representatives of the ministries, or the Government, should be here to maybe change their minds, what they had brought on the day they discussed the amendments. Unfortunately, there are no representatives of the ministry here, and no one can communicate with us, conduct dialogue, and that is why we have submitted these amendments and talked about the earthquake, and we believe that it is solidarity, and humanity, and we do not consider it hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46984	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Vesna Maric submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Marina Toman submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milorad Krstin submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dobrislav Prelic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46985	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished citizens of Serbia, this is for today the last law we are discussing. I suggested that the headquarters of the Development Fund be moved to Novi Sad. You know that we already have an AP Vojvodina Development Fund in Vojvodina, he worked quite correctly for a while, until it turns out that at the Vojvodina Military Institute we have practically parallel institutions. First of all, our farmers had yet another aid, but when we tried to appeal, first of all here, to the government of the Republic of Serbia and then to the government of the AP Vojvodina, to freeze those loans of the Development Fund in some way, there was simply no understanding. Then it turns out that the jury account of the AP Vojvodina no longer works, and our citizens had to pay off funds at the Metals Bank. Now it's the Vojvodine Development Bank, and we know very well what happened and who washed the big money through the Metals Bank. Of course, the state should have stopped and listened to our proposal and for a period of time to freeze its return before all these loans, because these people gave their mortgages, their country, and they would certainly have returned it after leaving the crisis. This way, the loans they received in large amounts of companies that were close to the authorities, they were not the problem because they mortgaged what they didn't earn, but what they got on a gift from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46986	On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dragan Stevanović has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46987	Mrs. Kolundjia, I will help you, whatever amendment your party has to accept in the voting day, and it comes from the SRS, it is acceptable for us, we have no problem in our ranks to agree on. You must guarantee that you will agree on that amendment with Junior Dinkic. When you talk about hypocrisy, hypocrisy is these empty lines, hypocrisy is that none of the representatives of the government said a single word about these laws. The hypocrisy is that out of three government representatives, there are none, it's hypocrisy. The hypocrisy is that they come to us from the Fund for the Development of this sentence – republican institutions would be closer to all citizens and entrepreneurs, reducing the injustice that people in the interior feel. A fund in which half of the officials were arrested for expending money on taxpayers, sharing money for flights, instead of export and businessable enterprises, small, medium, precisely in that province that is being called here from the Development Fund. It's hypocrisy. So this is the political bottom, to accept such political compromises that your coalition will survive. Pay, finance from your pockets, which is party, which is private, development of the United Regions of Serbia, and not about the cost of the state, on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, by abuse of the institutions of the Serbian state, as so far used by the National Employment Service, the Ministry of Finance, while they controlled it. Now that I can't do it anymore, here's what they came up with. Maybe you're willing to compromise like that. If you are, you will see in the election how much this will cost you. Don't make us do that. I repeat, support any amendments to the SRS, but you know, you need to make a deal with Junior, which we obviously suspect.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46988	National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Nikola Savic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46989	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to the proposal for a law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. Now at first glance someone can be made that this is just another in a series of amendments that the SRS has submitted and perhaps I as its MP, however, you will see that it is not quite so. With this amendment of mine, I wanted to show some principle, both mine and the SRS, and to disprove all those who didn't understand the essence of what we've been talking about here for three hours, maybe even four. With this amendment, I wanted to show that everything I thought was supposed to move from Belgrade to Nis doesn't have to be everything in Nis, there are other municipalities of Nisav County and right here if you look at one of these things, first of all, the Development Fund that is scheduled to be in Nis, I suggested that it move to a municipality of Nisav County, Svrlig. Namely, Svrljig is one of the smaller and undeveloped towns of Nisavsky County. It is located at the border of two districts, between Nisavsky and Timoski County. It is a large area, an area that has certain potentials, and I think that the government, or its representatives, which are almost not here, should consider and still accept some of these amendments, namely what my distinguished colleague, Mr Dragan Stevanovic, was saying. Accept some of these amendments that you consider necessary, we will be grateful to the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46990	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Srboljub Zivanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46991	Ladies and gentlemen, I have suggested that the Nish Development Fund move to Sabac. Now I'm going to tell you why I suggested it, because of one great abuse of this fund, and you know well, because of the man who abused this fund, former Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic, who boasted himself as much as he did from this fund for the development of the alleged loan, a grant loan, so that he could buy 50 hectares of land in the area of Fruska Gora, to deal with wine production. That's why he served the Development Fund, so that your party officials can get rid of that fund, take the money, abuse it and never bring it back. That's why, Mrs. Hope, you're trying to degrade the values of our amendments, where we want to show and show why this fund is important to find in the area of the town of Sapca. To help these miserable peasants, who when they put in all the inputs and when they use in agriculture, they have nothing in the end. I see, Hope, that you're stretching, stretching, because it's probably already burned down, because you can't take it anymore, but that's what shows your value as head of the DOS, DS, because you don't have anywhere to go anymore, how and in what way...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46992	Two minutes! The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46993	I don't know what your problem is, but I think it's the responsibility of the chairman to make a statement under the Rules of Procedure that the MP can't address the other MP directly. So, I don't mix here with anyone personally, and I don't get into any kind of dialogue with anyone personally. We're here to discuss amendments to one law and who degrades the amendments. So, here, first of all, is the principle question – is it estimated that by moving some state institutions' seats to strengthen some local environments or not? If at the same time there is a claim that it is pointless, and then the amendments are submitted and they explain that it should not be in that center, but in someone else, then it degrades the amendments, which is so set up. So what matters here is is whether the concept by moving state institutions is going to allow some local environments to bring some life into them, wrong or not? We can discuss that. But if someone on the one hand claims that the concept is wrong and that it is politics, that those who support this concept are someone who is blackmailed or has no exits, etc., then on the other hand, there is no logic to submit amendments and explain them, and that amendments that require that the seat not to return to Belgrade, but to move to another, third, 50th city. I repeat, all these laws have two or three members. The SRS has submitted 50 amendments to them. Each of these amendments requires that the seat be in another city. Make a deal in which city, there may be arguments to not be in the city that's proposed, but in one of those 50 that you're proposing, but... (President: Two minutes. ) Using MEP time I asked for time within the Parliament club to talk about the amendment. [[President: You've been given the right to a replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46994	You're entitled to a replica. You can report that you speak, of course, and as president of the Parliament Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46995	I asked to really talk about the amendment. So, I didn't think it should be replicated, but I just have the right to talk about the amendment within the time of the Parliament club. I repeat once again, if the concept is wrong, then the amendments degrade those who respond to this concept, supporting the concept, just convincing us that one city is not well, but that some of the 50 cities you are proposing should be determined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46996	Thirty-five seconds of time was used by the president of the parliamentary group. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was tabled by the MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Dešanka Plečević.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46997	For the same reasons I was talking about the removal of the National Employment Service, I am asking the amendment to move the headquarters of the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia to Bor. Bor as the district's headquarters bordering EU member states, Romania and Bulgaria, is the ideal place for the Fund's headquarters. The closeness of the mentioned European states makes Serbia as a serious predden for EU membership the most important and beautiful European experiences can come in the cheapest way. We don't need to go to Brussels, Bucharest is closer, Sofia is geographically closer. We can learn a lot from our neighbours, from the rate of economic growth, from when they became EU members, to how many people went out of the country with bread and how many of their citizens are begging across EU countries. Since Belgrade does not see living in the interior, apart from the darkened windows of ministerial cars at the time of the election, the most logical thing would be to move the Fund to the interior, not only with its headquarters, but also with decision-making. In that sense, I expect further changes and additions to this law. What does it mean, just moving the Fund, the Fund's headquarters, if the board of directors they make decides at a telephone session where the money will go and when it will be placed? Then why would they come to Bor, the fund's headquarters, for example? It needs to be saved on fuel, on time, stress from road holes, rinks, snows and other weather accidents. Therefore, the transfer of the development fund's seat only makes sense if you leave the decision on the funds in it to those most underdeveloped in economic terms. Thus, you would not only deconcentrate institutions, as Minister Verica Kalanovic said in the opening debate in principle, but rather deconcentrate the financial and economic power under the control of one party, which is G 17 plus. We wanted these amendments to prove the senselessness of these changes and any place in Serbia could be the headquarters of the Fund... .
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46998	It's been two minutes. Thank you. The People's MP Radisa Ilic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u46999	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. A bill with a proposal to replace the word "Nish" with the word "Paracin." The Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia and the public when it was created was presented as a rescue formula for citizens of Serbia, for a small economy, for entrepreneurship, for the development of agricultural land, for the rise of new ambushes, for farms, for the processing of agricultural products, etc. The Fund's headquarters is in Belgrade. I proposed that the Fund's headquarters be in Paracina in the future. If we are to carry out real decentralisation in Serbia, to develop our municipalities more evenly, then we must also relieve Belgrade of all these agencies, republican funds, directorates and distribute them properly to municipalities in Serbia. The municipalities would at least have some satisfaction if a republican body moved to their territory, and this year the government denied them 27 billion dinars of transfer funds, so two months ago we experienced a real rebellion by the president of municipalities and cities in Serbia. As far as the Development Fund is concerned, it has not been celebrated either, as has the Export Insurance and Financing Agency and the National Employment Service. The black chronicle was recently dedicated to the Development and Abuse Fund. Stripes between Fund employees and the Fund's user of funds have been exposed, so a number of employees are now waiting to be brought to justice. All of this began, we remember, back in 2003, when the abuse of former Transport Minister Marija Raseta Vukosavljevic, the minister of the DOS government, who, along with the sister-in-law of the couples received from the Development Fund, raised a discotheque instead of a passenger farm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u47000	National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u47001	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a solid parliamentary experience, but to this day I didn't know that if a Member of Parliament submits one amendment, that all MPs must submit the same amendment. Now we've had a chance to make sure it's imposed on some new obligation.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u47002	People's MP, I beg you on the agenda, your amendment is that according to the bill, the word "Nish" is replaced by "Love".
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u47003	I won't bother at all, Madam Chairman, to understand you. You said he had the right to be absent from the government occasionally. She was sometimes absent from the lady who was there...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u47004	I warn you, People's Messenger, that you are violating the Rules of Procedure and that you are jeopardizing and reducing the reputation of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u47005	I'm not breaking the Rules of Procedure at all, I mean, my absolute consistency as a MP is that I'm on three laws that are on the agenda...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u47006	Now I warn you twice because you are obliged to listen to the president's warning and explanation. That's what the Rules of Procedure says. So you got two minutes to talk about the amendment to Article 2 which reads - in Article 2(1). The bill of law of the word "Nishu" is replaced by the word "Love." I ask you to use your two minutes to explain this amendment, because that is what a member of the Rules of Procedure who speaks of the obligation to speak about the agenda obliges you to do so. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u47007	In the three laws that are on the agenda, I have submitted that the seat that you are proposing should be moved from Belgrade to Kragujevac, Užica and Nis. Every time I suggested that it be in Love.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u47008	People's MP, I've been quoting what's on the agenda. Now I warn you, before giving a warning measure, that you are no longer trying to abuse your right to speak of the amendment you have submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u47009	The Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia – I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. A bill where I suggest that the seat of that fund be in Love. There are many reasons for the seat to be there, but much smaller is the problem where it will be the headquarters of this fund, whether in Belgrade, whether in Nis or in Ljubovija. A much bigger problem is that the funds the Fund has been using for many years. That's one problem. Another problem, in our view from the SRS, is what you said in the law on this fund that agricultural activities do not have the right to compete for these funds. We don't think that's right. It would be a good way to encourage agricultural production, because we have recently had a situation where raspberries, shoppers and a series of other agricultural cultures destroy us for the reason that the prices in the ransom are not the ones that would fit and those that these agricultural products cost the farmers themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u47010	Two minutes. Thank you. I took a minute to warn you of the respect of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u47011	From the point of view of the SRS, it is irrelevant where the Fund's headquarters will be located. The Fund's headquarters basically means absolutely nothing if the Fund is off-line. The Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia is out of service. Why? Because, according to the DOS concept, by the concept of coalition authorities since 2000, we are basically maintaining a way of funding and relying on our own strength of the Development Fund. From 2001 to 2010, between seven billion dinars and 11 billion dinars were spent through the Fund this year. Government funds and budget funds that went to the Development Fund were about two billion this year in some amount of 2006. It's just a change of total assets as much as this country spends through the budget. The current government must wonder why it no longer invests. That's what I just said about one bill, through the financial system of the Republic of Serbia in the last ten years, it's been 60 billion, maybe up to 65 billion euros. Only the proms are separated into the Development Fund. When a new Development Fund Act was adopted in 2009, the most significant clause lost to the Development Fund's development component was kicked out. The provision that demanded that 1.5% of the gross social product be allocated to the Development Fund, so much resources, unfortunately, has been deleted and more current authorities are not considering serious allocation of funds to the Development Fund.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u47012	Two minutes. Thank you. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u47013	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know if this kind of terror is the reason I'm allowed to speak at all. I'll leave you at will this minute and a half to stay happy all night.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u47014	People's MP, I ask you not to make a deliberate error, without any responsibility for the public's word, the public who follows convey sessions of the Assembly, and not to present the lies to which you blatantly violate the reputation of the National Assembly. The word terror in serious people has serious meaning, and you are not allowed to make fun of such words. Your right to use the interpretation of the amendments in two minutes is set out in the Rules of Procedure. It is unacceptable for you to promote falseness from where you sit, not taking into account the weight of public words you carry. National MP Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u47015	Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on this third proposal of this set, which has been proposed again, I have the same proposal to be established, in this case the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, instead of moving to the town of Nis to the city of Pristina. I point out this especially because we have three legal proposals, which all the cities are covered and some sentences are said about them. However, there is neither one place nor the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija itself, nor can it be found in legal proposals. Is this the ruling set and for what reason casts out that there is not a single sentence in the legal proposals: Kosovo and Metohija, Pristina, Mitrovica, Pec, Decani, Strpce. Are the cities located in Serbia or elsewhere? If it is judged by what the head of your biggest club says, that Serbs have to look at Pristina, again, I say they will never look at Pristina, and I hope that God will not let it see it and experience it, but the Serbs will continue to look at Belgrade, look at Moscow, not in Pristina, Brussels and Washington. On the other hand, what effect would it be? The effect would be because Serbia's most underdeveloped part is exactly Kosovo and Metohija. We remember that we have invested for centuries in this very area of Kosovo and Metohija, that every citizen of the former Yugoslavia invested in the space of Kosovo and Metohija, and for reasons of underdevelopment, I think it is necessary now, and one way is to move this headquarters of the Development Fund to Pristina.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u47016	Two minutes. Thank you. National MP Bojan Mladenovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u47017	I'll just say three goals you're declaring as the objectives of the Fund. These are: improving competitiveness, improving domestic economy and adapting domestic economy to the world, an open market economy. Here's an example that shows that if the Fund works like this and keeps working like this, it'll never get to three goals. In one place, in response to a state body – whether or not and how the control of the dedicated spending of the appropriations is carried out, the Fund responds: "The purpose control of companies and their operations are carried out in the release of funds and on the basis of the documentation that the company applies". So, ladies and gentlemen, there's a rabbit in that bush. The Fund acknowledges that it does not exercise any control over the already authorised funds and that it only does so when it releases funds. The fund absolutely has no idea whether the beneficiary of the funds uses these funds to buy yachts, and uses them, whether he uses them to buy apartments or houses, and uses them, whether he uses those funds to pay back early loans, and uses them in such a way, the Fund is not interested at all. Next absurd. The contract provides for the possibility of termination of the contract if the funds are not used on purpose. Who's going to tip off the Fund that the funds are being used unintendedly? As far as I know, Grandma Wang died. Or, if anyone knows how to look at beans, maybe that's how they'll know. It is an interesting question when the Fund will terminate this contract when it acknowledges itself that there is no control and no insight into the intentional use of these funds. So move that Fund to Cachak, as I asked, and we'll make him exercise control there.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u47018	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dragan Zivkov submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) National MP Dragan Zivkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u47019	My amendment applies that this fund, which is to be moved from Belgrade to Nis, should be in Vienna. Today I've already explained why there should be a fund in the city of Vienna, and now the Development Fund. There are more reasons. There's only one thing I don't understand. Mrs Nada Kolundzhija honours the MPs of the SRS that we should agree on this many cities, where we are witnesses and where MPs assure the ruling coalition MPs that they should be such funds for development in all cities, because all municipalities and cities have been devastated, and especially the Becay municipality in which I live, that's for sure. What will the Development Fund get? Will the criteria for the allocation of funds from the Development Fund be changed if the Belgrade headquarters is moved to Nis? What are the criteria so far? Whether it's political or it's good projects, or whether it's potential users of the Development Fund that really have potential and need funding from the Development Fund. That's the point: will the Development Fund work better now that it's moved to the city of Nis? Secondly, in Vienna today, President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic visited the Becej City Assembly. She will surely bring you information about the situation in the city of Vienna. He needs to talk to the council today, talk to the citizens, etc. The devastated municipality of Vienna, not that it needs the Fund, but that it needs help, I don't know what kind, so that the city of Vienna, the kind of economy and the kind of city and potential it was, will come back to life.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u47020	Two minutes. Thank you. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Petar Jojic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was brought together by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Krasic and a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) National MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u47021	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 3. The Development Fund gives itself the right, or this law, to the Development Fund for the right to acquire shares and actions. So, where the Fund for Development in the previous work has sinned, where it has made the wrong assessment, where it has been credited without someone being able to repay it, where it was divided by the party line, where it was divided by who knows what criteria, this law now leaves the possibility of these debts being converted into shares and shares. Instead of discussing the responsibilities of the Development Fund, which is why credit risks are not respected, which is why it was going to some loan approval that was not possible to repay from individual business entities, we today have this amendment that literally means at the same time and a nationalisation of the partial assets of companies, as well as a deprivatisation. Already in the next article, which we are going to talk about, we will also have the opportunity to literally put those companies privatized back in a position to borrow from the Development Fund. It seems to me that these solutions are taking a step backwards, that instead of creating some market conditions and those principles on which transition is even based, and that's why we went into transition, we're taking a step back. We admit indirectly some of our mistakes, but we do not find the right solutions to come out of these mistakes and to allow the economy to come back to life in the long term and to get out of this situation that is very difficult at the moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u47022	Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (No) A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) National MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u47023	Since I have been a member of the Privatisation Committee here for six years and we have debated many things in the privatisation area in those six years, but that we have not done much, by some estimate, for me this member is extremely interesting because, as I just started, thanks to the provisions of this member, the future Development Fund will be able to lend those companies in which privatisation has failed, where the capital trustee is placed, where there is some chance that these companies will come back to life and re-enter the privatisation process. I think solutions like this, without looking at the whole privatisation process at all, without one serious revision, without changing the law, are nothing. They represent only an attempt to have authority amnesty over responsibility. We have so far had over 2,000 companies privatized, 700 contracts, and it would have been much more so if the law had been fully respected, out of which half of those companies that were leaving at that time in the privatisation went bankrupt. You have one part of the company that still, in the opinion of the Privatisation Agency, can live and work in which a certain number of workers who mostly per year, two or three have not received salaries or received very little compensation, who have struggled with the Privatisation Agency to come to an end, and they had little understanding about it. Now we put these same workers in a position to give them some hope that there will be a fund for the development of certain loans to revitalise them, that they will revive these companies. We give them one false hope because after that they are again waiting for the privatisation process, according to the same law by which some punk bought them two or three years ago, left them without income and existence, ruined their company. Now, as a society, as a people, we need these companies and these people to help them break out of this difficult economic situation, but we do not guarantee that the new privatisation of them will create healthy companies, that they will get customers who will develop these companies in the future, but those who may at some point have abused the privatisation process, we will suck out huge capital from these companies, we are giving them the opportunity to once more funds from the citizens of Serbia, and those funds that are being invested in these companies will be the assets of all citizens, because the loan will certainly not be for six months but for a year, and for a few years, and it will be returned by that new buyer, if it is ever returned. So again responsibility for the privatisation process and everything that happens in the privatisation process falls on the citizens. Again, they pay for damages, and the authorities amnesty themselves of responsibility for everything that has happened so far in the privatisation process. So this is a double scam. This is something that's inadmissible by the SNS. This should take a lot more account. Such legal solutions and such amendments are often passed through different laws. Lately, I've been under the impression that the urgency of this is to continue, but in this way we're only giving individuals the opportunity to not only once, but also to rob Serbian citizens twice.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u47024	Two minutes of MP time was used. The word is from the President of the Hope Kolundji Parliament Club.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u47025	The Honorable President, dear colleagues, is very difficult to monitor what someone wants with these amendments. So I very carefully analyzed the last amendments and tried to see where the logic we could follow in the voting day is, trying to see what it is to pay attention to and how carefully to accept amendments that will fix the law. If someone says that the Development Fund because it didn't properly assess credit risks, I guess it didn't assess the credit ratings, didn't ask for sufficient guarantees for those companies that were given the funds, then the question is, why is there a Development Fund, because that's what banks do. So, the Development Fund and the Development Fund's idea is that the state is helping, under better conditions, to develop the economy. Now, if so, then the next dilemma – why someone is contesting the right of the state, that is, why is the amendment whose content is to challenge the right of the National Development Fund, so the Development Fund is equal to the state, that in the event of non-discrimination it becomes the owner, i.e. it has a share in ownership. Why is it irresponsible for the state to be provided by taking over a part of the property if someone can't pay the loan? So it's hard to understand. I cannot understand and therefore it is very difficult to consider these amendments and try to make some effort to adopt some amendment that can correct this law. What is also incomprehensible is that privatisations that have failed, i.e. companies whose privatisations have been annulled or failed, are challenged by the right of the state to try again to maintain these enterprises, to put them on their feet and to go into the privatisation process. The second solution is that they completely fail, that people are out of work and that these companies are shut down. So this really raises the fundamental question of what we really consider to be better, or whether these amendments are really just denying any legal solution without really serious intention to study each law well, to see if amendments have to be acted on, as these amendments say that they eventually actually do.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u47026	Two minutes and 50 seconds of time spent by the president of the parliamentary group. MP Zoran Antic. Time available for two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u47027	Mrs. Kolundjia has been mixed up by Article 3 and 4. We were just talking about Article 4. If we're talking about the stakes they refer to Article 3, but no matter what, what I've advocated in my discussion above all, it's to do a review of privatisation and to change the Privatisation Act so as not to have those funds you intend to invest have some logic. If it continues with this kind of privatisation, if the Privatisation Act doesn't change, we come into a situation so that all these can be thrown away. It may be that we help these people over the next year, but it does not guarantee that they will preserve their jobs as they did not save in the first privatisation. That's the point. You can't amnesty everything that happened in the privatisation process and say it was great, it was great. Well, it's not, ma'am. Over 2,000 companies went into the privatisation process, 700 contracts were terminated. That's not a small percentage. If you're already going with some solution that you want to save those companies that are left, you have to have one comprehensive concept, that you know what you essentially want, and not that you're going to go from one mistake to another mistake. It's a mistake for us not to revise the Privatisation Act, but to go with a bill like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u47028	The 5th amendment was submitted to the same text by MP Zoran Krasic and a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic and a group of 21 MPs from the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Antić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u47029	Article 6 It's about branches. Branches that, in our opinion, are not needed when it comes to the Development Fund. We believe that lately whatever legal proposal we get we also get a proposal to open branches across various parts of Serbia. Today it is a matter of politics, of trying to deceive citizens, of caring for their interests, of caring for even development. This is not an honest approach and this is not the way and way to help those citizens across Serbia who belong to the regions that are at risk.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u47030	Members of the 7th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Krasic and a group of 21 MPs from the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Antić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u47031	This is the last amendment the SNS has given when it comes to these amendments to the Development Fund Act. It refers to the fact that, according to us, the Development Fund provides the possibility of deciding to invest in securities of value. The state is becoming more and more entrepreneurs. I just said that. The state needs to be squeezed out of the economy. The state has given itself too much rights. Today in Serbia, you have on one side state, state funds, municipal funds and all that economy that is related to these funds, the private sector that is related to these budgets can survive. It is inappropriate for the state to participate in the financial market, to make such a shallow market financially as it raises questions and thus allow it to manipulate stock prices because the state has quite capital in relation to private investors, and the situation in the Belgrade Stock Exchange has been quite chaotic since the start of the crisis. You know very well, the price of action has fallen drastically. It has partially stabilised during 2010, but it is neither of the values nor the "Velex Shit" nor "Belex 15" at that level that it was at before the crisis began. So these solutions leave room for manipulation. It's discretionary rights, it's something that's inadmissible and should be avoided in every legal proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-17-0.u47032	The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic and Milica Vojic Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banović, Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic and Milica Vojić Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Before I conclude the examination of the bill in particular, does anyone who has not used their right or time at their disposal want the word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. With this end of the search in the details of item 14 of the agenda, we end today's work and continue work tomorrow, Thursday, November 18th, at 10:00 p.m. Thank you.
