ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35827	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that there are 127 MPs present. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your identification cards into the MPs. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, there are over a third of the MPs in the Hall of 90, and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by the MPs: Sinisa Stamenkovic, Mladen Grujic and Dragan Šormaz. According to Article 88(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in addition to the representatives of the promoter Dr. Zarko Obradović, Minister of Education, I called for the meeting to be attended by Prof. Dr. Radivoje Mitrovica, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Dr. Tinde Kovac-Cerovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Dr. Želimir Popov, Assistant Minister of Education Zoran Trninić, Assistant Minister of Education, Vesna Fila, Assistant Minister of Education, Miroslav Radikić and Ljiljana Nenadovic of the Ministry of Education. We move to the 6, 7th and 32nd item of the agenda – PROPOSALS ON PRE-SCHOOL VESSITATION AND EDUCATION, ON STUDY AND SCHOOL SCHOOL SCHOOL CONSERVATION BETWEEN SERBIA AND BLACK GORE AND UNITED STATES OF THE SCHOOL OF THE INSTITUTIONAL SCHOOL IN BELGRAD (Common Main and Single Search) A unanimous decision of the National Assembly to carry out a joint principle and uniform search on the draft law on student and student standard and a proposal for the approval of the Agreement between Serbia and Montenegro and the United States on the status of the International School in Belgrade, and before the opening of the search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article. Paragraphs 94 and 152. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours, and shall be allocated in the following way: Parliament's Group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group – one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes 12 seconds; MP group Forward Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; SPS-JS-18 minutes; MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; MP group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and PUPS – six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak each and every one, up to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the MPs' groups have authorised them to be represented by the following MPs: Nikola Krpic – the Parliamentary Group of the United Pensioners of Serbia, Miletic Mihajlovic – the Socialist Party of Serbia-United Serbia MP Group, Snezana Stojanović-Plasic – the Parliament Group G17 Plus, Donka Banović – the Democratic Party of Serbia MP Group of Serbia, Jon Magda – the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia, Nebojsa Rangelovic – the LDP Parliamentary Group, Zlata Đeric – the Parliament Group of New Serbia and Radica Jocic – the SRS MP group. According to Article 142(2) and Article 152(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principled and uniform search on the draft law on pre-school education and education and the draft law on student and student standards, as well as a bill on the validation of the agreement between Serbia-Montenegro and the United States on the status of the International School in Belgrade. Does the proposing official, Dr Zarko Obradovic, minister of education, want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35828	Dear Madam President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Vice-President and Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, today I will be pleased to be with you and to discuss the proposals of these three laws, which we consider to be very important for the area of education and education in the Republic of Serbia. One refers to preschool education and education as part of the education system of the Republic of Serbia, the other refers to student and student standards, meaning procedures and secondary education and higher education. The third item of the agenda we are going to discuss today is one draft law confirming the agreement between Serbia and Montenegro, in this case Serbia, as the legal successor of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, and the US on the status of the International School in Belgrade. For us at the Ministry of Education, it's about extremely important laws. They rely, when it comes to all three laws, especially the first two, on the law we adopted in August of last year, which you had the opportunity to discuss, which is the Law on the founding of a system of education and education. Our intention is to further raise the quality of education in the Republic of Serbia and the level of education of the entire population of the Republic of Serbia and, of course, create conditions for children in preschool institutions and students to be fully users of what the Republic of Serbia has to offer them. When it comes to preschool education and education law, its importance stems from the very fact that the law relating to preschool children's coverage, because preschool education and education enables children to better start primary school education, affects the increase in child enrolment in school, later contributes to improving school success, preventing social exclusion and reducing the rate of school leaving children. It is particularly important for children from marginalised groups and from socio-culturally depressed environments, which in their environment did not have enough incentive to develop and which, possibly, could be a reason to leave school. When it comes to this law, he has an interesting history. The entire area of pre-school education and education has an interesting history, because this area has been the subject of several ministries, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy now, and before it was the Ministry of Social Policy, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education and Sports, and now the Ministry of Education. Otherwise, you know, in 2001, there was an initiative that the work of pre-school education and education of the unity within the work of one ministry and amendments to the 2002 Act of Ministrys fell under the authority of the Ministry of Education, but the subject matter itself was regulated by one other law, the Law on Social Care for Children, until the adoption of the Law on the Fundamentals of the 2003 Education and Education System. Of course, the 2003 intensity was confirmed by the new 2009 law. It is now the first time that a special law relating to preschool education and education is passed. This law regulates preschool education and education as part of single education and education. The law has several members, which fully regulate this area with their content, starting with determining what is the activity of pre-school education and education, and the law determines that it is an activity of direct social interest, which is being realized as a public service. The education and education of preschool children, it is about the age of six months to the start of primary school, is carried out in preschool, and can be performed exclusively in school. A preschool institution also performs a work to ensure the nutrition, care and preventive health and social protection of preschool children. It only speaks of the character of preschool institutions. What are the objectives that we set through this area and through this law? This is to encourage physical, intellectual, emotional and social development, communication and child creation, to build awareness of yourself, to gain experience and knowledge about other people and the world, necessary for further education and education and inclusion in the social community. The tasks are set to create conditions for quality life, play and learning, to encourage coherent psychophysical development of children and to prepare children before starting primary school. When it comes to the use of language in pre-school institutions, i.e. in pre-school education and education systems, the law stipulates that educational work is done in Serbian, for members of national minorities, educational and educational work is done in the mother tongue and can be bilingually or in Serbian, if at least 50% of parents are defined for it. In part, preschool education and education programmes, or programmes in general, can also be achieved in a foreign language. The statute of a preschool institution also lays down the language in which educational and educational work is carried out, leaving it right for preschool institutions, and preschool programs determine how it is achieved. Pre-school institutions should keep records of educational work, parent book on enrolled children in pre-school and pre-school programmes, books of work, yearbooks, public documents on the attendance of preparatory and pre-school programmes, translators and credentials. When it comes to the establishment of pre-school institutions, I have to present one piece of information that speaks about a network of pre-school institutions in the Republic of Serbia. In fact, a network of preschool institutions in the Republic of Serbia has been set up on principle -- one municipality of one institution. Each preschool facility has a network of facilities and other spaces, so that we have 2297 facilities and other spaces, and programs are also implemented in private kindergartens, in 51 private kindergartens and primary schools. There's 149 schools like that. I have already mentioned that preschool education and education can also be maintained in schools, so that the capacity of a network of preschool facilities has been increased by more than 450 objects in the previous five-year period, from 1480 to 2297. What remains as some assessment of the current situation and our intensity for the future, these capacities remain insufficient and are not evenly geographically distributed. In Serbia, unfortunately, a small coverage of children is preschool education and education. It is moving around 40%, while the coverage of children in EU countries is significantly higher and moving up to 80%. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is official data. He's no good to us, but we have no reason to run from him. It stands before us as something we need to change and increase the scope of children, in order to achieve the goals I spoke about at the outset. When it comes to the establishment of pre-school institutions, the pre-school institution can establish a Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province, a unit of local self-government, as well as a second and legal and physical person. The number of educational groups ranges from five to 100 educational groups. A preschool institution performs its work in its headquarters. A pre-school institution that has a verification solution can perform work outside the seat, in a separate department, a pre-school facility, in a school or in another space. When it comes to enrolling children in preschool, I would like to point out that the priority for enrolment is children from sensitive groups, children with disabilities and developmental difficulties, children from foster families, children from socioeconomicly threatened environments and children from working parents. The method and procedure of enrolment in pre-school institutions shall be determined by the statute of pre-school institution, with the consent of the founder. A foreign child and a stateless child, a exiled or displaced person, are registered under the same conditions and in a manner prescribed for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. For staying in a preschool institution, i.e. primary school, the parent of a foreign citizen's child pays an economic price per child, and the parent of a child without citizenship, a exiled and displaced person pays the price per child established by the founder, in accordance with the law governing the financial support of the family with children. When it comes to pre-school education and education programmes, the basics of the programme include the basics of the care and training programme between six months and three years of age, the basics of pre-school education and education programmes from three years to inclusion in the programme of preparation for school, the basics of the preparatory pre-school programme. When it comes to preschool programs, which is very important, it's the so-called preschool program. The 0th grade, prior to the start of the primary school, educational and educational work in preschool institutions is achieved on the basis of a preschool programme that is adopted in accordance with the basics of preschool education and education programmes. The preschool programme contains general data on the establishment and its environment, the type and duration of the educational work programme, other forms of work and services, forms of co-operation with the family and local community, the way in which the principles and goals of education are achieved, as well as ways of monitoring and self-evaluating the work of the pre-school institution. The preschool programme also develops ways of developing an individualised approach in achieving educational work to provide additional support to children, especially children from sensitive groups. The law prescribes that children can be provided with a preschool program in appropriate medical institutions. Exceptionally, for children who are unable to attend preschool for sickness or other justified reasons, the implementation of a preschool programme is also organised in the family. This is all about our intention to include all the children, regardless of the situation they're in, in the preschool prep program. A preschool institution, due to lack of spatial capacity or insufficient number of children needed to form a educational group, can also implement a preschool programme in a traveling kindergarten. It is a dedicatedly equipped bus for children aged four to leaving for primary school. When it comes to types of programmes, I would like to point out that under the pre-school programme, regular educational work programmes for the whole day and half-day can be implemented and other specialised programmes, in line with the needs and interests of children, i.e. their parents, or guardians, according to the opportunities of the pre-school institution and local self-government units. Programmes can be special and specialized, programmes of specific areas of educational work, then language and culture programmes of the national minority, convenient and occasional programmes to achieve cultural and recreational goals, i.e. children's vacations, family support programmes, programs for working with children in the family, family mangers, baby service, other programs and forms of work and services. When it comes to preschool preparation, I would like to point out that this programme is part of a regular preschool programme for a full-day and half-day period, which is achieved with children in the year before school. The preparatory preschool programme for children not covered by the regular preschool programme shall be organised in preschool, exclusively at school, in accordance with the law and statute of the preschool institution, i.e. school. Exceptionally, the preschool preschool programme for children in the family can be organised for a short period of time. Obligations of institutions, local self-government units and parents have been defined. The preschool programme is implemented in a half-day, full-day and multi-day period. The preschool programme takes place during the working year, from 1 September of the current year to 31 August of the following year. A pre-school institution, in accordance with the provisions of the law, may acquire model centre status if it has participated in a scientific research project that introduces innovations in the achievement of educational practice, or a new model of pre-school education programme has been developed, or if there are human-space conditions for organising training of professional educators and professional associates. A higher education institution or a research organisation which is the project manager shall give an opinion on the acquisition of the status of the model centre for the innovation, i.e. the model, for a period of five years. Closer conditions on how to work and finance a model centre are prescribed by the minister. When it comes to organising work with children, educational and educational work with children is organized in educational groups – the task force, for six months to three years of age, and kindergarten groups, for three years of age until school. Educational groups can be formed for children of the same age or different age, and the number of children is defined by law. If there is no possibility of forming an educational group in accordance with the law, the founder may establish a smaller, or 20% higher number of children than the number entered in the educational group, in accordance with the criteria prescribed by the minister. When it comes to children with developmental disorders, they exercise the right to pre-school education and education in the educational group, with additional support and individual education plan, development group, based on an individual educational plan. The number of children in the educational group, enrolment and treatment of the institution in the process of establishing the need to provide additional educational, health or social support to the child has also been defined. The law also regulates the issue of people working in pre-school institutions, educators, professional associates, associates and teaching assistants. The law lays down that the activity of preschool education and education is being achieved by an educator and an expert associate. The work of preschool institutions that provide food, care, preventive health and social protection is achieved by co-workers. Pedagogical assistant provides assistance and additional support to children, in accordance with their needs, co-operates with educators and professional associates, parents, or guardians, and competent institutions and organisations. The tasks and education of staff in preschool institutions have been defined, when it comes to educational and educational work, it is done by educators. We have an educator, a teacher's nurse, and an educator's defecologist. Professional associates carry out professional tasks that promote educational and educational work. They're pedagogical, psychologist, pedagogogogic for visual, musical and physical education and logos. Co-workers also carry out jobs that improve care, nutrition, preventive health and social protection at preschool. A preschool institution that implements special and specialized programmes can also have other co-workers, of course, with the consent of the founders. And, at the end of this law, another important issue is financing. The child's parent participates in providing funds for the achievement of a preschool institution whose founder is the Republic, an autonomous province or units of local self-government, up to 20% of the economic price per child. The decision on the price level shall be made by the founder. The obligation to pay in full-day and half-day stays exempt children without parental ageing and children with developmental disorders, under conditions and in the manner prescribed by the law governing the financial support of the family with children. The means of carrying out pre-school education activities and education in a private pre-school institution shall be provided by the founder. The budget of the local self-government unit shall provide means for transport and escorts of children attending the preparatory pre-school programme and other purposes. Of course, the law defines the right to strike, to oversee the work of preschool institutions and criminal provisions. Dear fellow Members of the People, with these few sentences, I have tried to present to you the content of the law on preschool education and education. I must say, this law does not contain provisions relating to the financing of people who work in preschool institutions. That's what I'm saying here, given that local self-governments finance the work of people who work in preschool institutions, so their incomes are different from the economic opportunities of local self-government. I want to say that in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, there is an absolutely unique view of the need to establish one, the lower limit of income, in a way that it is known that all people working in preschool institutions are receiving the same personal income for the same school preparation, independent of the economic capacity of local self-government, because so far we have had very different situations, that they receive very little, and others receive as much as they can, but that depends on the economic strength of local self-government. Our desire is to create the principle of equality and apply it in a way that there is a lower limit, and to leave the local self-government right, if I may, to make these incomes far higher. I thank you for your attention when it comes to this law. I would immediately move to the next law, which is the bill on student and student standards. The Ministry of Education and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have initiated the adoption of a new law on student and student standards, in order to essentially eliminate the problems identified in practice, which have been seen in the application of the Law on Student and Student Standard, which has existed since 1992. You see, 18 years later, we're passing a new law. During the application of the Law which has been valid so far, I hope for a few more days, until the National Assembly adopts this, it has been found that there are legal gaps in the law when it comes to the powers to adopt certain acts, that certain solutions relating to the exercise of the rights of students and students in the law are inaccurate, that certain solutions are overcome or give the basis for resolving the situation which requires special treatment, in order to achieve equality of all categories of students and students, that issues of attaining the rights of students and students who achieve exceptional results are not systematically resolved and that it is necessary to provide full support for society for further development of their abilities, for scientific and artistic work and employment. Then, the solutions relating to the establishment and operation of the institutions are incomplete, issues of the duration of the mandate, the workaround and the responsibilities of the body of the institution are not regulated, the provisions on supervision of the work of the institution are missing. All of this created problems in the field of student and student standards and led to legal uncertainty in the exercise of individual rights, students and students, as well as different practices of institutions. In addition to the problems arising from the under-wide framework of the Law to address the problems of practice, the Law went one way, and the life of the other, the Law had to be brought into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, with new laws adopted, such as the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, the Law on Higher Education, Criminal Code and other laws, with the development strategies of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which were adopted years ago, such as the Strategy for the Reduction of Poverty, the Strategy for the Promotion of Roma in the Republic of Serbia, the Strategy for improving the position of persons with disabilities in the Republic of Serbia, the Strategy for the Development of Social Protection and others. In line with adopted strategies, it was necessary to ensure special protection of students and students from marginalised, sensitive social groups, especially Roma, as well as students and students with disabilities, as well as students and students with special needs. The Ministry of Education has so far taken certain measures to address the strategic objectives set, in line with the opportunities that existed and which were objectively limited, and in the best interest of the users of the rights from the student and student standards awarded scholarships to specific solutions. Given the above, as well as the fact that in our legal system there is a tradition of special editing of student and student standards, there has been a firm belief that the adoption of a new, special law on student and student standards has no alternative when it comes to improving the work of institutions of student and student standards and a quality and effective meeting the needs of students and students in this area. When it comes to the system of student and student standards in numbers, the figures that I will now present speak best what that standard is and how important it is for high school students and students, that is, for the field of secondary and higher education. In 58 institutions of the student standard, as well as in schools, since there are schools with a home, 10,000 students were housed, which is about 4% of the total population of pupils in secondary education, while in nine student centres there were 16,370 students. That's the 2009 data. In places where there is no university standard, student homes provide accommodation for another 530 students. Five student cultural centres and another culture home meet the cultural and artistic needs of the student population in university centres. It seems to me that we have information that over the course of the year they are implementing 2,000 different programs from different areas. Student resorts provide rest and recovery for a large number of students. The right to a student scholarship is granted by 11,500 secondary school students and about 400 students of deficit professions are entitled to student credit. Special solutions grant scholarships for 170 students from sensitive social groups. The right to a student scholarship is achieved by around 8,400 students, and on student credit – 17.500 students. Special solutions grant about 400 scholarships for students from sensitive social groups, at the request of the Association of Families Kidnapped and Missing from the KIM, the National Council of the Roma National Minority, the Association of Military Disabilities and the Association of Students with Handicap. Special solutions have so far been made as an affirmative measure to support students and students from sensitive social groups, given requirements under special laws and strategies adopted by the government. The most successful and talented students, who achieve exceptional results, hundreds of them, and about 415 students and 120 PhD students, receive scholarships from the Republic Foundation for the Development of Scientific and Art Underage, under special conditions. When it comes to the content of the new law, the draft law that is currently under discussion, which you will discuss, responds to the need for full legal regulation of the system of student and student standards, in support of the system of secondary education and education, i.e. higher education. The student and student standard is an organised activity which provides additional conditions for more accessible, efficient and quality education and training of students and students in the field of education and education. The student and student standards aim to create material, cultural, social, health and other conditions that encourage both education and the versatile development of students and students. The new law creates a legal basis for the establishment of an effective system of student and student standards, which through clearly defined procedures to exercise the rights of students and students, to finance these rights, to provide networks of institutions of appropriate categories according to prescribed standards to ensure greater availability of education. Decisions in the draft law are the result of both public debates and more debates with all stakeholders. I must remind my fellow Members of the People's Parliament that we have had a public debate on these laws, which was conducted at the time when the laws on the basic system of education and education and textbooks were discussed. The other thing is that these laws were the subject of discussion of the Assembly, and these two we are discussing today are part of the assembly procedure, but we have discussed with all stakeholders, both the institutions of student and student standards, as well as union representatives, student parliaments, student associations and student parliaments, and there have been several thematic seminars with students, to find the best solutions, which are then presented at an international conference of students, titled "Student Way to Europe". The draft law also provides for new solutions, and as regards the rights of students and students, general and specific conditions for the exercise of certain law rights have been laid down and criteria for a network of institutions of student and student standards have been established, thus ensuring the availability of secondary and higher education under the most favourable conditions for all students and students, without discrimination on any basis and respecting the special needs of pupils and students. Incentive conditions and measures are provided for to achieve the full equality of students and students from sensitive social groups, I underline this, such as the exercise of the rights under the law by applying softer criteria, which will be prescribed by sublegal acts, the exercise of the right to accommodation, while respecting the special needs of students and students, and support by an expert associate – assistant, depending on the needs of service users. Monitoring and care for students and students who achieve exceptional results in scientific and artistic work is also foreseen. A Republic Fund is established for the development of scientific and artistic youth, with a clearly defined position, funding, competences, as well as conditions under which students and students can exercise the right to a scholarship granted by the Republic Fund. The level of student and student loans and student and student scholarships as a measure of the safety and social protection of students, i.e. students, is specified. Data is the possibility of releasing students from the obligation to repay student credit under legally prescribed conditions in order to encourage the student's success. So whoever wants to study, the credit will come to him as one support, and they won't have to pay that loan back. Especially when it comes to rights, it is also arranged to exercise the rights of students and professors from international exchange to realise the requirements of the Bologna process. I must say, since I actively participated in this, that in a number of dormitories special parts have been renovated, in order to create conditions for international exchange, as part of applying the Bologna Declaration and implementing the Bologna Process. In addition to the rights, the obligations and responsibilities of students, i.e. students, have been specified for serious infringements of obligations, which may lead to the loss of a certain student's right, i.e. students' rights, after the procedure has been carried out. When it comes to institutions, new solutions are set up system institutions of student and student standards according to established criteria, with clearly defined conditions for the establishment and operation of institutions. The powers of the body of the institutions, the duration of the term of office, the responsibility of the authority in cases where it does not take decisions under its jurisdiction – one of the reasons for the resolution before the end of the term of office, were established so that it would not happen by chance that the managing authorities do not make decisions, thereby bringing students and students into an awkward position, i.e. they violate their rights and the institution cannot function. The appointment process of directors has also been established – it regulates the establishment of new institutions in the student standard, in line with the possibilities and needs in this area. It's about the student center, the student resort, the student cultural center. Under the current law, he was only the House of Students. It is arranged that the institution, apart from the Republic of Serbia, can establish an autonomous province, a unit of local self-government and other domestic or foreign legal or physical persons. So far, according to the current law, that right was only for the Republic of Serbia. Standards and standards for the operation of institutions, space and categorization of accommodation, equipment and food, etc. are introduced. Has standard, safety control and nutrition quality, of course, and labour issues. A ban on discrimination, preventing negative behaviour in institutions is introduced and, in particular, concerns about the security of the institution. The professional work of the institution is improved, the obligation to pass examinations for educators and professional associates, psychologists and educators is introduced. Since 2005, there has been no legal basis for passing an expert examination. There is also an obligation of professional training for all employees. Full supervision of the working institution, supervision of the legality of work, inspection, expert-pedagogical supervision in the institutions of the student standard shall be established. Therefore, under the conditions of the existing standard of living, it continues with a good practice of providing optimal protection for students and students who are educated outside their place of residence, who are separated from their family, with care for their accommodation, nutrition, health, rest and recovery, as well as the training of students, in institutions that are required under the new law to meet the relevant standards. The new law, in our opinion, will undoubtedly have a positive impact on both students and students, as well as on the institutions that this law will apply. A positive effect should be expected from staff in the institution, above all, educators and co-workers in the institutions of the student standard, which, according to the solutions set out in the bill, based on the planned professional training, should be much more competent than so far for the tasks they carry out. Also, the establishment of new institutions by other founders is expected to provide the necessary number of accommodation facilities for all students and students in out-of-place education. In particular, the new law will also have a positive impact on the economy and entrepreneurship, as the law provides support for the education of the necessary and especially deficits, the right to student credit. The new law will not create new costs for citizens or businesses. On the contrary, conditions are being created for the financial discharge of parents of a greater number of rights users under this law. The introduction of labour norms will also lead to savings in the financing of employees. The conditions will be established that each institution, in accordance with the size of an institution, a programme that implements, the number of service users, works with an optimal number of employees, leading to a rationalisation, i.e. a reduction in the number of employees. The institutions of student and student standards have 3,630 employees. The analysis of the existing situation and the solution from the bill revealed that the total number of employees will gradually decrease, by introducing appropriate normatives and standards, of course, the number of employees according to the size of the institution, by automation in restaurants, leading to appropriate savings in the future period. Due to the increased coverage of students from marginalised, sensitive social groups and special-needed groups, their increased inclusion in the education system is expected, as not everyone has been able to be involved in education so far. These affirmative measures will enable those persons to acquire secondary and higher education and to employ and be socially secured by their work, which will have long-term financial effects. And the introduction of an expert associate - assistant to provide assistance and additional support to students and students in accordance with their needs, as well as educators and professional associates, in order to improve their work with students in need of additional support, will not require additional funding, but will be carried out according to projects, which are support of the education system, as well as at the expense of savings due to the rationalisation of the number of employees. In order to implement the law, appropriate sublegal acts will be adopted under the authority of the Government, the National Education Council, the responsibilities of the Minister of Education and the Republic Fund for the Development of Scientific and Artificial Youth, within the time limits set by this law, in order to ensure the functioning of the system of student and student standards in the single system of education and education. New solutions in the law provide for the competitiveness and quality of work of institutions, as well as equality of students and students in the exercise of the rights of student and student standards, and thus the efficiency of education. In the end, or at the end, let me say something about the third item of the agenda, which is part of this law package in the field of education. It is about a bill confirming the agreement between Serbia-Montenegro and the United States on the status of the International School in Belgrade. Otherwise, this document was signed in 2006 by my colleague Slobodan Vuksanovic and the president of the US government. For various reasons so far, he has not been the subject of a declaration by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but there is no reason not to do so today. It is an act that objectively improves co-operation between Serbia and the United States, as this agreement regulates the status of the International School. The reasons for the adoption of this law are the need to establish whose founder is a foreign legal person to introduce a legal institutional framework, to establish a legal framework for the work of the International School, in accordance with the law and the basics of the education and education system. I mentioned that it would also contribute to strengthening cultural ties between Serbia and the people represented at International School, of course, and the United States. The law will enable students whose English is their native language or whose English language is sufficient to monitor their teaching, to attend school. I must tell you that these laws are fully related to the work and content of this school and the members of the law are dedicated to all the important issues that will be the content of this school's work. I think it is good for this school to be introduced into a legal and institutional framework and that MPs of the National Assembly support this law and the signing of this agreement. Dear fellow Members of the People, I hope I haven't been too long. On the other hand, it seems to me to be areas that are very important, so I hope you'll forgive me for speaking for so long. I have to thank the members of the Education Committee for yesterday's debate. However, we didn't stay long, but what we heard was very good. I call on all MPs to help us today in the debate and during the amendment to adopt as good a law as possible, as this law will benefit the entire educational system of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35829	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Do the committees want the word, Mr. Zoran Shami, Jon Magda and Vlatko Ratkovic? (No) I thank you. Do the MPs of Nikola Žutić and Aleksandra Ilic, who issued an opinion at the meeting of the Committee on Education, want a word? Mrs. Ilic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35830	Thank you. The Honorable President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and one and the other law that needs to be passed is not bad. These are system-based laws that need to be regulated for a long time by areas of education and education. The main regret is that all educational laws are not passed in one package, because the public and this high house would have full insight when it comes to education. What makes this law unacceptable in my eyes is the establishment of a special Republic fund for the development of scientific and artistic rejuvenation, as a very expensive administrative apparatus, which, by means of its cost and expenditure on the salaries of newly employed persons and paid board members, influences that funds from the budget, which were so far small and intended for gifted children, are further reduced. I stress that funding for the Fund is provided from the Republic of Serbia's budget to finance education, science and culture. I'm afraid there will be very little resources left for the development of scientific and artistic youth, i.e. for highly gifted students and students and other tasks of the Fund referred to in Article 72, following the settlement of all expenses of the newly formed fund, which also has its board of directors, whose members will certainly be paid persons. From their personal experience and experience in working with their students, I know that many gifted children and students remain unfulfilled because of the lack of material resources necessary for professional training and the achievement of top results. By investing in them, we create only a larger number of our country's ambassadors.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35831	Thank you. Does MP Petar Jojic, who issued an opinion at the session of the Legislative Committee, want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35832	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill could have been done far, far better essentially. There are certain standards that have been scattered without need, from members to members, which could have been summarised and essentially arranged in a better way. Just take an article. Eight and ten. This Article 10. should be the position of the 4th Article 8. As for the other provisions that are proposed, I must note that, when it comes to setting up and financing, there are certain anti-constitutional provisions, which are kind of discriminated against by certain citizens, which relate, above all, to the establishment and financing of state and private pre-school institutions. What's the word here? First of all, in the provisions of the bill, when it comes to funding, citizens who have placed their children in state preschool institutions will be obliged to participate 20% in preschool financing, in costs. However, when it comes to private facilities and private preschool institutions, it is not fulfilled by the Constitution because it is in Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia prescribed that all citizens are equal before the Constitution and the law. There's a lot of discrimination going on here. This is serious. I have one petition from the citizens. He signed 186 of them who were forced to house their children in a private preschool facility in Pancevo, for the populated town of Gornji Grad and Kođ. It is a preschool institution of RSD "Bajka" in private property and parents were forced, because there is not enough capacity in public kindergartens and preschools to enroll them to stay there. However, the Pancheva City Assembly remained deaf, even though we were asking a question – why are citizens not equal in certain rights? If a child is enrolled in a state preschool and has only 20% participation in co-financing, and because of lack of business space and lack of facilities, someone has been forced by these... I will give you this petition of citizens, which was delivered from the City Assembly, whose committee I am, but I asked this question. However, the City Assembly does not answer this question, is being deaf and gone. I ask the question – why have citizens who have enrolled their children in private preschool institutions been discriminated against and why do they not have the same rights? I must point out, Mr. Minister Obradovic, Doctor, you well know that all citizens pay contributions and taxes that enter the budget of the city of Panchev, from which pre-school institutions are financed, and state and private. I have information from your associate, yesterday I received it from the Committee, that there is a 51 private institution in Serbia, a private institution. I have some still unverified information that some municipalities have leveled on the rights of this institution. This is not in line with European standards. If we advocate that private and state-owned, that all forms of property are equal, if by the Constitution we guarantee that all citizens are equal before the Constitution and the law, then they cannot be citizens of Kotez and the Upper City of Pancheva. They have the right to refer to the court, have the right to seek reimbursement of funds, because before the law and the Constitution they are equal, and this is confirmed by evidence that these citizens are paying taxes and contributions neatly. If they pay, why are they discriminated against? Just because it's a private facility. You shouldn't do this, Mr. Minister, I don't believe you represent this position. I ask you an answer, I ask you a question, and I ask for an answer, both as an MP and as a councilman in the City of Pancheva Assembly, because I will give you the material that has been delivered to all the parliamentary groups... (President: Time. Thank you. It's been five minutes. )......................................................................................................... I'd like an answer to this question.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35833	Do the MPs Momir Markovic, Radica Jocic and Sladjan Mijaljevic want a word? (Yes) Mrs. Radica Jocic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35834	First, I would like to express my satisfaction that such important laws are being discussed today in normal working hours, and not as we were, when it came to the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, being extended, so that citizens could only follow that video at night, late at night, or they couldn't follow what we had to say. On the Committee on European Integration, I voted out my opinion because my colleagues from the SRS Group of Parliament and I have a lot of objections to the law in general, which mainly concerns the following. Although the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System and this bill finally define the place of pre-school education as part of the education system, we think leaving the possibility that the activity of pre-school education and education is not well defined. We think that only the statute of the pre-school institution determines the language in which educational work is achieved gives too much authority to the institutions, and that consent to those provisions must be given by the Ministry, because it is intended otherwise to give consent to the training and education programme, if it or part of it is achieved in a foreign language. Also, we don't think it's adequately regulated to carry out activities outside the institution's headquarters. We believe that the number of children per group can be smaller, that the work will be more efficient, and that it is difficult to form mixed groups than different ages of children. We also felt that the auxiliary educators, as co-workers in the performance of educational and educational work, had to have a legally defined medium professional training, meaning a school that is of some educational or pedagogical direction, and not just a general, secondary vocational school, regardless of language knowledge. Also, pedagogical assistants, who are, by the way, left out in the list of associates, should be more precisely defined in terms of professional preparation and their ingenuity and in institutions should not be more. I welcome the government's wish, which the minister pointed out at the beginning of his presentation, to raise the salaries to the educators, i.e. to allow teachers to have at least the same salary throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia regardless of the power of local self-government. I also have a question – was there any legal or sublegal acts in the government's plan to get rid of the teachers' salaries in Belgrade and the interior, because teachers in a large number of municipalities in the interior, such as my municipality of Bela Palanka, Piroth and others, work for 23,000 - 24,000 dinars, and so much pay in Belgrade in pre-school institutions have, for example, hygienics, auxiliary staff and others, that we would not come to the situation after some time that there is no one to work in pre-school institutions, as the work of a teacher is no longer as appreciated as it was in some previous period, just for these reasons? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35835	Thank you. Does Mr. Momir Markovic want a word? Yes, go ahead. Sladjan Mijaljević? Here you go, one of you. Mr. Sladjan Mijaljević.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35836	Thank you, Your Honor. I have issued an opinion on the Committee on European Integration on these two laws, on pre-school education and on student and student standards. I have no doubt that the billmaker had good intentions to arrange a certain matter, or one, to say, a greater living environment and the environment that many people, or all people in their lives, are going through. However, we from the SRS, because of the things that have been happening to us over the past 10 years, even 20 years, that have come to us from or from different countries of the modern and developed West, and modern democracy, etc., we are very skeptical of everything that comes from this environment and from these cuisines. Yesterday, I heard from one of Mr. Obradovic's associates that a law began to be made in 2003 and that it was only last year that it was over. For seven years, the law was passed. Of course, this law that was made, or passed 18 years ago, also needs to be changed and all that fixed. In the past ten years, various projects introduced through some NGOs, some experiments introduced into this education system, have led to some confusion. They introduced some quite new matter, some things that are alien to our history and our culture. Some countries, like Finland, have been determined that for a time, I don't know, even, they finance and monitor the implementation of these standards. I ask the question – can we here in the Balkans, residents, members of all religions and nations, compare ourselves with the cultural, historical heritage of one Finland or some other countries? What are those standards? Are these maybe some new NATO standards or don't I know what kind of madness we're going through? We have submitted a number of amendments to these laws, because we want to fix them, help you to be even better. However, few opposition can help make these laws better, on the one hand, and on the other hand, to be implemented, because these are laws that need to be financed. They are financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget. You among your colleagues must make such a consensus, to force that minister who has been working for ten years in the country of Serbia to fill your budget, so that you can manage certain funds to fund dissuaded teachers, teachers and educators, to have normal salaries, so that they can be happy and happy to come and devote themselves to working on child education and education. If they're unhappy, then the kids in kindergarten are gonna watch cartoon videos, they're gonna get aggressive, and then a five-year-old kid is gonna come home to attack an older sister or a brother, fly in and fight them. When a parent sees something happening for the last month, he goes to kindergarten and asks, "Well, what are you doing during the day?" They say we give them these tapes, so they're watching. So that tutor must be stimulated to really commit himself to his work. If he doesn't have enough pay, but he's thinking about how he's gonna strike and how he's gonna survive, how is he gonna get his kid, I don't know, two or three thousand dinars to buy shoes, not 200 euros, but two or three thousand dinars, and even less, to buy shoes, then the question is, how can he do that job that he does? I doubt, indeed, that someone deliberately introduces a certain kind of dissatisfaction into preschool education, as well as in this secondary and university education. On the one hand, the state has no money to finance certain projects. On the other hand, through the many autonomys of the university, etc., huge amounts are being obtained, i.e. large amounts of money are being sought to finance some tuitions, so that again we come into a situation to create, minors, some modern slaves who will do some low-quality jobs from those who should work on their own achievement or some intellectual heritage. It's not the ones who have psychophysical pre-schools, it's the ones who have money for it. It's really sad that we have a situation where some criminals are setting up certain institutions for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35837	Time. Thank you. Mr. Momir Markovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35838	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if this law, which crisscrossed for seven years, by which case the child would have already passed this law on preschool education and education, as well as its clauses, and fallen under this second law, the law on student and student standards. We'd already be preparing for his adulthood. First, let me say that the MPs of the SRS have filed on these two laws about hundreds of amendments, trying to fix what can't be fixed, because the law is in the beginning such that it is almost unacceptable. I know that you have 126 votes and 126 means that the cube is round, or the ball is square, but I have to point to some things that these bill proposals haven't regulated, and they have a deep background, there's been a lot of things going on in the past. First of all, I have to remind the Minister, I know that he's emotionally bound by some time ago, from which he has introduced into this law a clause; he says – the children's preschool championship, so, besides others, "employees". What are we going to do, Minister, is communist or socialist syndrome, now with people who are unemployed, and their children are standing up for pre-school and school education? I think you have to delete that part because it's unacceptable. As for the law on student and student standards, firstly, to remind you that there are five student homes in Belgrade and that back several years of major affairs, criminal affairs, have appeared; and today, if it is not over, do not hold me by my word, director or one of the homes or all five homes, if they are unique. This criminal affair was discovered by a student who was a beneficiary of these homes and, when he talked about what it was about, I thought it was incomprehensible, but when he brought the paperwork, I realized that there, too, from the student standard, some of the student dinars that this country is making, had become very rich. Let me remind you that in dormitory and today, places and rooms are being resold, and this law did not end, that even today students, good students who are from the interior, who came to finish colleges and go home, to work there, to contribute to this country, rooms are being issued at twice the price, resold under the grain. You have to stop that. If there was one in this law, the SRS would accept that, of course, that part, I don't mean the law, the law is bad. The SRS probably won't vote for this law unless you adopt all our amendments. Nutrition in student homes is also unsatisfactory. We all have relatives or friends who are users of these dorms and student cafeterias, you're probably going there and you've seen, you know, the quality of food, you know that the state has to invest there, because that's the only place it invests in the future. I think that's why so many amendments have been filed. The SRS had and has now a project on how to get rid of these things and will continue on the project. We've just introduced parts of that project into the amendments. You, Mr. Minister, would have to withdraw both of these laws, work up, put what's not in the law, throw out what's unnecessary, and it's in the law, and then you'll have the support of the SRS. Once again, I remind you of one member referring to this first law, preschool education. Foreign persons will be able to open kindergartens, open kindergartens, open preschool education institutions. I ask you, how will they raise our children? Will our children teach our history? (President: Time. I thank you. I apologize for these two seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35839	I would just like to inform you that the authorised representative of the Prosperity Group of Serbia will be MP Milan Knezevic. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) Mr Nebojsa Rangelovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35840	The Honorable Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Mr. Minister, the honourable members of the Government, are standing before us, I would say, very important laws, because the subject of their regulation is a very sensitive subject, sensitive matter. I would also say that the truth is not accepted, but that it is an axiom, that the human society of the 21st century is, in fact, a knowledge-based society. The world's sticking to it. We are witnessing that the characteristics, i.e. the features of global society: the development of communication systems, the development of science and technology, the expansion of international trade. We should ask ourselves a question – where are we in the whole system, or where is Serbia? Serbia, unfortunately, is characterised by a demographic decline, a depopulation of villages and the largest population in underqualified occupations. The laws we are talking about are also the most sensitive parts of the Serbian population. When we talk about it, we cannot ignore the fact, for example, that the Serb village does not exist, that no one lives in the triangle of Bosilegrad - Crna Trava - Trgovište. We wonder how we will resist many problems that burden southern Serbia, but very rarely ask the question why no one lives in the part. So it's not just an erosion of the Serb village, the Serb village no longer exists there. Now we have laws that need to regulate such sensitive matter as preschool education and education, such as student and student standards, therefore, something that is quite logically continued, i.e. a law that has a logical trail of norms compared to the first law I mentioned. We are witnessing that in the 1990s, they led to a general breakdown, which and how it affected not only the depopulation of the village, but affected that perhaps the best and strongest people we lost, because they simply had nothing to live on in Serbia. I am very sorry that some participants, and perhaps the guilty ones, are sitting with us in the National Assembly today. If you'll excuse me, I'd move on to the metrics of these laws. I could say, with all the regrets we've heard, more or less justified, that we have correct laws in front of us. Of course, a question can be asked about Serbia's capacity to enforce laws with such standards, but the issue does not currently concern the content of these laws itself. This issue should be opened and discussed seriously, but not at the moment when we are talking about the metricity itself, or the content of these laws. As far as the proposal for a bill on preschool education and education, with everything I have stated so far, I would only ask the question, since I have not noticed, is probably well embedded in the text of the standards contained in this law itself – how many Portuguese and Polish experiences have been used, because there are information, i.e. accurate data that both Portugal and Poland have experienced a model that has produced good results? As for the law on student and student standards, I would refer to what the minister was talking about. We got a student standard law in 1992. It lasted 18 years and I must say, despite the fact that this law was passed at a bad time and that it may be illusory to talk about attributes to any standards of the 1990s, and especially to the student and student standards, that the 1992 law had some good characteristics. These characteristics are also recognized in the text of this law. I'm going to talk first about the benefits of this law, and later I'm going to ask some questions, or something that seems vague to me. First of all, as a good thing of this law, I would list a network of institutions of student and student standards and the insistence of the Ministry of Education to maintain this network and improve it. There is also a question of imbalances in the maintenance of a network of student and student standards, because we are aware that Belgrade's Student Centre and, let's say, the institution of the student standard in Subotica have neither the same needs nor the same treatment. There are logical reasons for that, but there are also reasons for this proportionality to be reduced somehow. Also, student cultural centres have a disproportionate and drastic difference in the capabilities and capacities of these institutions at different university centres. There's no law that can't be solved. It should be a process and it should be the policy and strategy of the Ministry of Education and the entire government. I believe that a good thing is a way of solving the governing bodies, the status and composition of the governing bodies of the institutions of student and student standards, and so on. The previous legislative solution contained provisions that regulated the composition of the boards of directors. The boards of directors had 18 members and even happened to have more members than there were employees in the school and student standards. I think that this solution has reduced the number of board members to the right, and that is a good step towards rationalising and the efficiency of the work of these bodies. I'd like to ask you some questions. It's part of a law involving violations of student and student obligations. First it's about rights, student and student rights, and then violations of obligations. My knowledge of nomotechnics suggests that it may not be necessary for this part of the normative to be put into law, but that these disciplinary measures are covered by some other acts, but there is also a logic to raise this to a higher standard, because of all the problems that the institutions of student and student standards had during the application of the 1992 law. In the end, I would just add that the texts of the law are mostly correct, and I would ask myself and the Minister and all those present – what are the capacities for their implementation and can we have a vision of the possibility of their implementation, since the network of student and student standards is not such that, immediately after the adoption of the law, it can be applied to us? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35841	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Nikola Krpić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35842	Dear Presidents, the working presidency, the Honorable Mr Minister, fellow Members and fellow MPs, we have a thorough, serious, comprehensive and good law on preschool education and on student and student standards. The PUPS took a deep and conscious look at this law, gave it a lot of attention, and I think we can commend this law, which after a long time comes to the Assembly and before the MPs. First, we support and commend the fight against child rash, including children who were not involved in preschool education. This bill shows that a great effort has been made to have all preschool children covered by one type, or the kind of housing in kindergartens and other institutions of preschool character. We think that the age of students after preschool, when they go to school education, the most vulnerabilities of the year, should do something to make teachers, educators, social workers, nurses, no cigarettes at school, and no tobacco smoke, because teachers and other educators who work at school give a bad example to students and madness is our fight against drug abuse, alcoholism. At that age, it's all been tried, so we suggest that something be done in that sense. The white plague is certainly a major problem for our community and our country, but the high percentage of children includes preschool education is the success of both the government and the Ministry of Education. Our tobacco-free schools will be a great success for the entire community. I think this bill has enabled the Ministry of Education to systematise all the problems of student and student standards in the Republic of Serbia. Due to the health care part of the education, we suggest that students' and students' standards also consider medical standards, for the simple reason that many dormitories and students have no organised health care. There is a student clinic in Belgrade, but in these other parts of Serbia it is very difficult for a girl of 12, 13 or 15 to go and seek help if she has gynological problems and to go where the adult population goes. In this regard, I think that such institutions should organise dental, paediatric or gynological protection. In the end, Mr. Minister, I assure you that in the voting day, the PUPS will vote for these excellent proposals for pre-school, student and student standards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35843	Thank you. National MP Miletic Mihajlovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35844	President-in-Office, Mr Minister, gentlemen of the Ministers, honourable MPs, the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group is pleased that we have two new system laws on the agenda that regulate important issues in the field of education and education, with a reminder that, in the past year, two more laws have been passed and we are slowly making one mosaic that is complete and that legislation in the field of education is being completed. We expect that in this year the new law on higher education, which will complete this mosaic and address very important issues in the entire system of our education, will arrive on the agenda. As stated in Article 1 of the Preschool Education and Education Act, this law regulates the issue of preschool education and education within the framework of a single education and education system. This is very important, because in the previous period it was not the case, and it was not particularly the case with this dimension of education and preschool education. By passing a new law on the foundations of education and education systems, we have come close to this final goal of creating a comprehensive system. The first law, which was passed in 2003, on the basis of a system of education and education, took the lead that we had the situation that the activities that appear in the preschool age, education, education, care, nutrition, preventive health care, social protection, were in the care of three ministries: the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Health, and this kind of division of competences did not provide efficiency in this educational link, in this area. We believe that this change and this rounding, by passing this law, will finally come into order, in terms of an effective action that is very important to our society. In practice, there was a great lack of law on preschool education and education, but the "top" law, or basic law, which also addresses important issues in this area, was just a basis. Now these questions are finally being settled in a detailed way. However, local budgets, I mean local self-government, in some areas are very restrictive, so that they do not provide sufficient assumptions for full equipment, then to cover the necessary material costs, of course, and profits expected. We had in the previous period, based on the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, without this basic law covering this sector, different application, different practice and different effects in outcomes of education and education. This law should balance this issue as much as possible, or at least not make it so different and that there are great differences in what there are both equipment, and receptions, and standards, and the scope of children etc. Significant news is the inclusion, i.e. to take measures for greater inclusion and coverage of children from vulnerable groups on any basis, including children with developmental disturbances. This introduces new forms of work within educational groups, with additional support, an individual educational plan, then a development group along with, primarily, the use of an individual educational plan. It is important that this law treats the matter of exclusion of discrimination, which is very important, in terms of creating as good assumptions as possible for including these children who are threatened on some basis, to catch up with children who do not have this kind of problem. This principle of involving the entire population in this history of education and education has made it possible that even the leprechaun in the humane view, the staff who will work in this work, will be more diverse and quality, which means the involvement of educators, nurses of educators, defecologists, and then, professional associates, besides educators, psychologists, even logos. Afterwards, a pedagogogogogical for visual, musical and physical education or for some special and specialized programmes in the field of pre-school education and education and the engagement of other staff. However, at a time of major economic crisis and restrictive budgets in local self-government, it is difficult to expect the application of new norms stemming from these laws. This brings us to the fact that it is a fact, and that is a big gap between the normably established standards and the real state in which our local self-government is located. This calls into question the implementation of this law. Therefore, as the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group, we welcome the view of the Ministry of Education and the Government that it is necessary to do everything possible to introduce additional aid measures and full logistics to poor municipalities, which have very little resources for this area. Given that it is now a single system of education and education, which is ensured by the adoption of this law, it would be logical that there are equal standards in the whole territory of Serbia, equal conditions and equal assumptions, both human and material, as well as those relating to employee earnings in this education and education card. The question is how many additional measures are of that magnitude, so to speak, will make at least approximately those receipts and all these conditions in preschool institutions the same. Many of the activities and research that are already emerging and exist within the Ministry of Education, followed by the Ministry of Education and its related associations, bodies and services. For example, there were recently words about one study of what would make our school population more interested in teaching content, that children would not be so indifferent to what appears at school. Those results will take a step in a positive direction. I also want to point out some discussions and research, discussions that occur in other associations, other services and bodies. Let's also mention that the Serbian Academy of Science and Art, more specifically, had one discussion, a scientific conference that discussed the issue of efficiency and quality of rural education. It was concluded in that stands, for example, that statistics show that about 41%, almost 42% of the population lives in rural or suburban areas and that the standard of education is not at the same level as in urban areas. First, preschool education and education in these environments has only 15% of children, which is very small and worrying. One quarter of children are not covered by the pre-school preparation programme, and it is a legal obligation to be complete coverage. One-fifth of the country's children don't go to elementary school, which is another worse fact. Finally, the quality of education in rural institutions is lower. The equipment of educational institutions in the village is also lower than the equipment and spatial, technical and pedagogical conditions in the urban areas. We have certain paradoxes. For example, in some areas in eastern Serbia, we have a high personal standard of families, because of their work in Western European countries, so that their houses are equipped with technical means, computers, appliances and other aids, etc., and that when they go to school, they have no basic, elemental resources that would mate what they have at home. The second fact is that in southern Serbia we have an equal bad personal standard and that general standard in school institutions. Next, we have another problem, or one obligation, to put it that way, which we can't avoid, and we certainly need it. It's a rationalization of educational institutions in the next period. If rationalisation were done according to financial criteria, as a criterion, then it would appear that the number of educational institutions, schools, and kindergartens would be further reduced in rural areas, which would further contribute to the decomposition of our population and migration to large centres. Another principle, which is defined by the Law of the Education and Education System, is funding in the future, I think since 2014, by the head of the students, which is very discriminatory and will be very difficult to guess if it is blindly applied in these environments. Of course, there are additional measures to take care of this and this is also mentioned in the law and mentioned, but the SPS-JS insists and expects that the Ministry of Education, as well as other resolutions, as well as the government in general, will have enough hearing to adequately edit this, so that there will be no factor in further decommissioning and shutting down villages and creating assumptions for a low educational level in rural areas. These are problems that have not been induced, i.e. not produced by legislation or by the work of the Ministry of Education itself. On the contrary, the Ministry of Education is really making significant efforts in another direction, but this is an interrest issue, a strategic issue, and it is necessary that, in addition to pointing out MPs to this need, and the Ministry of Education, and we think that it will, it will be more offensive towards resolving these issues in an adequate way. When it comes to the law on student and student standards, it is indeed a pleasure to have a complete and, according to our assessment, a very high-quality law, which deals with organised action, which provides conditions for more accessible, efficient, quality education and training of students in the field of education and education. The objectives of this law are to create material, cultural, social, health and other conditions and assumptions for obtaining education, for the full social inclusion of the young generation, i.e. students and students, and for the versatile development of the personality of the young generation, which is the proper concept of our government and our society. The reasons for the adoption of this law are, among other things, the harmonisation with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, then, with the new law, which is fundamental, the Law on the founding of education and education systems, with the government's development strategies and with EU standards. When it comes to strategies, strategies are the basis or basis for the adoption of a good law, because they direct and warn about what is important in one area. These are strategies on poverty reduction, on improving the situation of Roma in the Republic of Serbia, on development, on social protection and on a national strategy for young people. This says that the Ministry of Education and our government take care of the social dimension when it comes to covering the law of these areas, in terms of creating as good and equal as possible, or about equal conditions for the entire population of students and students. This law also removes problems identified in practice in the previous period, above all, conditions for the exercise of student rights in the field of student standards. What I would like to say is the fact that in this area too, we are paying attention to the legislator in a very important area, which is the treatment of sensitive groups of students and students, who put them in an equal position with others who do not have that kind of problem. The SPS-JS will support these laws and we believe that a quality step has been made to regulate these areas.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35845	Thank you. The word is from the MP Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35846	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable President, Mr. Minister, last time we talked about laws dealing with education and education, I said, and I will repeat that education is the most important resource not only of this country, but of every country. It is the only resource in which long-term investment can be invested and that this investment is certainly profitable and certainly profitable in that historical and any other sense. I'm talking about the Minister of Education at this point need to know that the Minister is the most important, the richest and not responsiblely treated ministry in this country. Throughout history, only two types of ministers are remembered, these are finance ministers and ministers of education. Being in a series of Dosite Obradovićs is certainly a great honor, a great responsibility and I think that for Mr. Obradovic it is a personal and a great challenge. What I essentially object to these laws is that, although they have been prepared and prepared much earlier, they have long been on the Ministry's website, that all laws, or at least most of the laws regarding education are not common, unitedly brought into the debate of this high home, where we could look at the country's strategy according to this most important resource of the state. Education is the most important resource of one society, state and people and is treated in all serious countries in the world. We should look up to the EU that we are so pleased to quote, not to prescribe the most important postulates it applies, as they refer to education there. However, I must say that education, however, is quite dignified, no matter how long it has been tried, survives in every respect, thanks to, above all, to personal dignity, the reputation and morals of educators and educators, because it is their basic and very often major teaching tool. Education and all that enables education in one society, in one nation, should be essential and should be devoted. Formal education is not often identical to essential education, and last week we were able to see in one language discussion that these were two different concepts in the personal examples of some people. These are two laws that are very important. I said that we were concerned, as a parliamentary group, that they were not brought into the package with all other laws regarding education, especially as we know that they were long prepared, very responsiblely prepared and that they were dealing with sensitive topics. For the information the minister provided, I must commend him, the entire school class has explained these three legal projects to us, especially the first two. In these two legislative proposals, we will set ourselves up according to sensitive groups in this society, according to one resource of the future, they are preschool children and their education and education, and the other part concerns, too, one serious, but this time material resource, they are student and student standards. We'll talk more about it when they're amended. I hope there will be enough hearing for some amendments to be adopted. In the first law regarding preschool education, we put a fundamental amendment to the size of a group of children. I don't think we're gonna make a big savings unless we cut the group of kids. It is a much greater contribution if the groups of children with whom they are working, explained in Article 30 of this Law, are smaller, especially in children who are on hospital treatment, and require a greater number of educators. We've put the amendments on some more members. I don't understand the division of those who will be engaged in preschool institutions, associates, educators. It's all explained to the members from 40th to 46th. There's a member that I really didn't realize, who's going to be in the field and in practice, it's a pedagogical assistant. First, it doesn't explain at all what kind of professional equipment a teaching assistant should have. It is said: "The pedagogical assistant provides assistance and additional support to children, in accordance with their needs", is a very broad concept of what their needs are, "co-operates with educators and professional associates, parents, or guardians, and together with the director cooperates with competent institutions, organisations and associations and the unit of local self-government and performs other jobs, in accordance with the Law". I don't know if it's going to be a semi-political function. In any case, when someone has such a wide range of their work assignments and obligations, firstly, they can't do them quality, or that's what they say about me in Backo, "Snake for All." We know what it's like to have a business that the "Snake for All" can do. What is one of the positive newspapers, which is for every commendation, is this traveling kindergarten. It's a good thing it's finally under the law. The question will be – the means. I don't even know how the funds are gonna come up. I'll talk more about the Ministry of Education's resources. The second law, which speaks of the student and student standard, was also systemic, was very important to us, and some things worked out better, although I say, in education there have been solid laws so far, and thank God that education does not begin all of this calls to the Ministry, but it has been very seriously and very responsiblely edited much before. In the student and student standard, the minister mentioned the number of users this law will concern, it's a small town, about 30,000 users, but there's something I have to say here and I don't approve of as a man who works in education, who knows how thin every dinar in education is, it's hard to come by, most rarely approved. Personally, as an MP, I have always submitted amendments and they have never been adopted to me, when it was a budget law or budget rebalancing, that additional funds be approved, that they were removed from some of the items that I was talking about, even asking the government for an answer, so I didn't get it, because I believe that the funds were irresponsibly spent in some cabinets. These are some famous items where you negotiate some undefined business. We know how much they serve to take money past some serious criteria and responsibilities. So, from there, only some modest means, let's say, three million dinars, are transferred to the Ministry of Education and are increasing funds for student competitions, that is, this young man who is being treated with the 6th head in this law, members 70 to 80 – the Republic Fund for the Development of Scientific and Art Youth. No government has ever heard or explained that they are children who have to bear a future, that they are future generators of society development, that they should be invested in them, and I know how much schools and parents are being mistreated and how often it is expensive, sometimes even giving up that one child, for example, from Somboro, comes to Belgrade for a republican competition and to return. These are things where there was no understanding, and now the Republic Fund is being introduced for the development of scientific and artistic youth, and that sounds very nice. It's wonderful, and at first glance, everyone accepts it as one fantastic institution, because they think it'll solve the problem. All I have to ask is, what's he going to finance from? What don't I like about it? It is said to be the foundation of the fund, its headquarters in Belgrade. The Fund has a legal personality, has a director, has a board of directors, talks about new administrative posts, very expensive, it will also have space and phones, everything it needs, and professional and administrative and technical tasks for the needs of the Fund are performed by employees at the Fund. We already have in education, at this ministry, the National Educational Council that is financed, the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education, the Institute for the Valuation of Quality of Education and Education. As someone who's almost three decades away from a professor of ex-cutter, with chalk in his hand, I have no use for these institutions. There are over 40 employees who spend the Ministry's resources, and the ministry's budget almost 97% of their resources must be allocated to the salaries of educators, for, I must say, those miners who, in the field, work tirelessly daily, with the greatest enthusiasm, with our children. Let's just say, I know your delusions are a European standard. Did Europe really imagine that these people are getting paid as some experts, and that each project is paid by additional funds and hiring people on the side, I'm talking about a order of size between 3,000 and 4,000 euros per project, by 20,000 euros a year, apart from pay?- I'm sorry. What do they get paid for if even they, when they're doing the project, charge it afterwards? Check it out, Mr. Minister, let them file their financial reports for you, because every time, I guess, the pay means, when they raise an extra pen, it has to be paid. In just one year, I happened to be able to see it, the food and drink of one of the institutions is 10 million dinars. It's a nine-month reckoning, and here you won't separate three million more in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia to be given to the children for the competition. That's why I'm against this fund, because I see this fund as such a vacuum cleaner, not a vacuum cleaner, money from the budget, where a new administrative group of people whose references we don't know will be hired, but they'll be the director, they'll be the board of directors. It has already been seen from which political groups will be the board of directors in this conference, in another will give these people. They'll all receive salaries. That's what Serbian citizens and these young talents need to know. Their salaries are already 30 days after the adoption of this law, so within a month, and at this point you have no money for these talented students, gifted students, because student scholarships and loans for November are paid at the end of February, and these are very modest amounts. If those children were not able to be helped by someone else, or donated by someone else, they would hardly be able to complete their university by relying, in particular, on such an institution. I should bet, feel free to say, who's going to be busy, because you have these culinary stories that are already waiting for a seat in the Fund, etc., and we know well that in January we passed the Law on the reduction of the republican administration, on the reduction of the municipal administration. None of these laws have been applied. The IMF guys were, and they said a lot on the subject, that they were unhappy, that we weren't cutting public spending, but we're looking for every possibility where we're going to increase it. If we're talking about standard, let's not put that standard at risk. We have so far been able and had the opportunity, through this ministry, and this ministry is competent, to reward our specially gifted children, talented children, with exceptional qualities. We didn't take the strategy. Why am I talking about that the state has never once determined what it wants from those who are exceptional, who are exclusive, those who really represent us in the world, like these young men from the Mathematical High School who are world champions? Instead of going to the media with their names, showing up on all the front pages and being a country's strategy, and we know how it can affect the media, that it's a educational and stimulating motive for everyone else, because we can't ignore how much the media affects, they've shown up somewhere modestly. Every third-rate folk singer has ten times the space everywhere, not to mention some problematic television programs. So if the state does not determine that those who are exceptional, who are the best, should first be favored, that their successes are presented to all of us daily as something that is stimulating, and if the media are more concerned with some problematic situations in schools, in children and in young people, we will encourage a negative example and the possibility of, in fact, becoming popular, famous and affirmative, not positive. These are all the things that this ministry and the government need to take their stand and deal with them more seriously. I don't think the minister has done it seriously so far, but that they are even more responsible and directly dealing with it. So that influence must exist. That's why we put a series of amendments. I think that perhaps we are the only parliamentary group that has asked for amendments related to the Fund and this administration to be deleted, with everything that concerns students and student standards, their rights, their exceptional efforts, we support and we believe that there is room for it in this ministry. By introducing this fund, this space will be far less for them. There is a big space here for even greater spending of modest resources and it is impossible for these young people, who are our only chance in the future, to succeed and be even more successful. What this law, as the minister says, clearly defines, is a position, but whose position? I don't see them in these members of the law. Everything else is more or less solidly arranged, it's been working on these laws for a long time, but the Fund that deals with the development of scientific and artistic rejuvenation is such a hypocrisy, that I can't, no matter how much I root for the Ministry of Education, because it's stronger than I do, I belong to that branch, and I'll be in that dam my whole life, to support this bill. I would like to see, once within the Ministry of Education, these expenditures and the effects of budget consumers. It often happens to see what the media wants to present, and it is usually the ministers who are called. There are many more consumers and budget vacuumers and budget money in some other administrative bodies that we choose hotly here; some people set up, no one calls them, no one sees them, and they cost us dearly. Their frequent and catastrophic results will never be punished, their performance results will not be reconsidered, and I have to tell you that these are pretty serious and large figures. That's what I want to say for now about these legal projects, and when we have a debate on amendments, I'm going to try to convince you that some of the amendments, which we really well-intentioned, are to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35847	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mrs. Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35848	Ladies and gentlemen, G17 plus advocates the development of a modern democratic society that relies on a strong individual, a democratic society that is ready to accept decentralisation as a model of governance for itself and its environment, but also a democratic society that is based, above all, on knowledge, because knowledge is what drives the world, visions, ideas. Strong individuals and strong support to exceptional individuals is what gives lasting results and what ultimately represents a modern society of the 20th and 21st centuries, a society based on knowledge, a society that sees as a basic resource man and his knowledge and ability. But Ciceron still said that as the field, although fertile, cannot bear without processing, so one cannot create without learning. Since then, learning has been the basic resource of all societies and the basic prerequisite for mankind to develop at all. In terms of global development, when very fast and modern communications are recorded, the huge expansion of international trade and economy, but also very rapid development of knowledge, science and technology, we in Serbia, unfortunately, have some trends that are not favourable in this area. Our education is generally relatively low, we record the depopulation of the village and not only the villages, but the entire areas in our country, meaning the demographic decline, the low level of qualifications, the heavy employability of individual categories of citizens and, unfortunately, abandonment, the spilling out of the education system still inaccessible to a large number of children. Therefore, pre-school education and the introduction of pre-school education obligation was one big step that we took by adopting the Law on the Foundations of the Education System, but it seems to me that this step that we are doing today is not less important, because we are regulating a significant area, such as pre-school education, which directly affects early development, which is development, practically, from birth to school. Why is early development important? Still Freud, early in the last century, said that the child was the father of a man, and that remains known today as the Maxes, which I believe we all agree with. Then we started to think about how important it is to invest in children, that children are not just the reproduction of people at a lower level, but that children have their specificities and specificities of their development. It is also stressed how important it is that this early development will flow and that it will be encouraged and directed. At this early level of development there are various segments that we have to worry about, there are emotional developments, but also knowledgeable, also, social development. So all of these components and categories create a future man and all of them are of unusual importance, caring about them is of great importance to the development of the future man, but also to the development of the entire society, including humanity in general. Unfortunately, parents often do not have enough knowledge or come from environments in which encouraging early childhood development is not common and what society must do is to help parents with children of this age to properly shape their growth and development. Unfortunately, in our society too, it is often heard, the other day, that even experts speak about how the idea of education is, in fact, subjugation and child submission. I strongly oppose these attitudes, because I think it's something that destroys not only the integrity of an individual, but the integrity of a society. It is very important to me that this law contains principles that are directly contrary to that, principles that promote creativity, individuality, diversity, but, on the other hand, tolerance and socialization that implies that our right is limited to the rights of others. I think it is very important that this law adopts certain newspapers concerning marginalised groups, i.e. the possibility of their greater involvement in the early education and education system, including care, because it is something that is of great importance, for the simple reason that society cannot develop unless all its resources and all its capacities are put into full function. Strong scientific evidence in the field of economic, medical and social sciences suggests that programmes promoting growth and development from birth to six years represent basic human capital and a basis for long-term learning and socialisation. In light of that, we can say that the adoption of this law is one of our best investments in the future of our society. The Preschool Education and Education Act relies on many strategic documents that our country has brought, on the strategy for poverty reduction, the Millennium Development Goals, the National Action Plan for Children, the Strategy for improving the position of Roma and many other strategic documents that stress that it is very important for pre-school education to enable the use of all resources, introduce alternative programmes, introduce private service providers and engage all capacities at local level, including the local community, parents and NGOs. What is the state of our preschool education today? The preparatory programme, carried out in the previous three years, included about 96% of children, which can be considered a relatively good coverage, according to information provided by the ministry. The fears that exist are that it may not be the right state of affairs, because it shows that, let's say, the Roma population, or children of Roma nationality, are all covered by 45% of this program, and children from villages with about 50%, while children with development disorders are all covered by 10%. So at this point, we have a problem involving marginalized groups in the preschool education system, and that's certainly something that we're trying to change with this law, hopefully it'll change that. Also, this pilot programme has increased children's coverage by 30%, which is a very good result and a trend to continue. As for the scope of preschool education for children aged three to five years, it is 35 to 40% and is the lowest in Europe at the moment. Why is that? Studies show that one of the problems with parenting, or parents, is especially with marginalized groups, they do not consider it particularly important for children to attend preschool, unless they need to have children. So this system that preschool education and education, first of all, refers to babysitting, because parents who have nowhere else to keep their children in kindergarten, is something we have to change. Parents' awareness of the importance of attending these early educational and educational programs is important for further education of their children. As one of the obstacles, parents also indicate distance, price, but also lack of space. The lack of space mainly refers to urban environments. What does the law we are discussing today bring positive? This is already the involvement of marginalised groups, the wider coverage of children in the global, new flexible measures, such as, say, the possibility of programs taking place in the family, if necessary, mobile kindergartens for those areas where there are no opportunities to open classical kindergartens, but also various models of additional support and individual programmes for children who need it. Something that is significant, it is monitoring the effects of educational policies and the measures that apply. What I stand out is the possibility, i.e. giving priority to enrolment in kindergartens of children from socially endangered categories and marginalised groups. Like I said, individualized programs. I very much welcome the introduction of a teaching assistant as additional support and assistance to those who are unable to master the preschool education programme in a classical way, but also the possibility of enrolling children without citizenship. I want to say that there are about 700,000 people living in Serbia who do not have citizenship, because of difficult procedures to obtain documents or evidence of, say, residence and other data needed, so there are a large number of children among them. If children without citizenship are excluded from the system, they will remain permanently on the sidelines of society, which is something we do not want. In particular, I would like to emphasise a member of 34 who talks about children with developmental disturbances. We now have the possibility for children with developmental disorders to be involved in the early education and education system. It is predicted that there can be no more than two in the group, which means that there is no segregation, that there will be no special groups for these children, and, of course, an additional programme and support for them, which I think is extremely important, in order to enable both coverage and inclusion, and an inclusive approach, for which our society has been defined in education as well as in all other areas. I had some suggestions, which I believe we'll agree with the Committee and the Ministry, because of the very good co-operation that we have, by the way, I must stress. I suggest that, in addition to the intended categories, single parents have the advantage of introducing diversity tolerance as one of the education tasks. I have no doubt that this will happen, given that children with developmental disorders will already be present in groups, so I believe that none of their colleagues have anything against tolerance of diversity. I think it's just necessary for her to emphasize herself as a principle. Also, I believe that where there can't be a mobile kindergarten, there can be a traveling tutor. We had a termological dilemma. The law currently states that the municipality should inform children who are... I've got a little time, I've got to cut it short. We'll discuss these remarks later, because I want to say something about the law on student and student standards, because I find him very important. Why? Because greater availability of secondary education is particularly important to all those who want to be educated, too, for our society and society otherwise. The Youth Strategy speaks of it as very important that in society, I would like to emphasise that these are the suggestions of young people themselves who participated in the process of adopting the Strategy, recognise and respect the potential of young people as an important social resource, and this strategy shows that greater trust and support for the opportunities of young people should be demonstrated. I believe this is one of the laws that treats this area, which supports the possibility of high schooling. Many researches in both the world and ours say that, unfortunately, there is a social gap between some categories of society that have access to resources, qualifications, money, and life chances, and those who do not have that approach. Unfortunately, this does not only affect children of early age or primary school age. Even those who do not fall out of the system and come to higher education are still largely dependent on what environment they come from and how much encouragement their family can give them. I also think of financial, educational and various other kinds of incentives for education. There is a strong correlation between successes in studies and in origin, or families from which students come. That's why I think a good student support system should balance between the needs they have, financial, material, various others, and their merits, or what they achieve in college. I think there's room to improve this law, or space to criticise it. What's the situation now? Scholarships have been awarded since the second year to students with extremely good learning results. The average rating of those who are now receiving scholarships is 9.04. All students can compete for credit, including the first year, which is not possible for scholarships, and their average rating is 8.20. But what's worrying is that, according to the data I received, of the 100 possible credit points, only two points affect the student's material position. I don't think that's a good solution and it needs to be changed. In addition to this fund formed by this law, there has been a young talent fund since 2006, the Science and Scholarships Foundation, which is provided by the Ministry of Science and Technology for International Competitions, scholarships to poor high school students, and not by students, if I'm not mistaken. The rural and local levels of government also grant scholarships. I believe that this should have been united in some way, in order to manage it more easily and to know what the effects of all these givings are and to agree on the criteria. Three criteria, or three groups of possible scholarships, should be taken in an affirmative action. I believe this can be arranged by sublegal acts, and in that sense I speak. I know it's not possible to change it in law now, that one of the criteria for scholarships is success. It's very important that we reward best, it's something that drives society, as I said, but it's also important, given the correlation between the material position and the success of the studies, that maybe children from marginalized groups are more difficult to achieve such high results, so they need to be further motivated and given the opportunity to support them materially, so that they can achieve these results, so that we don't constantly spin around in this vicious circle of less successful those who are poor. I believe that scholarships should be supported by those who have a weaker material position, too, and those who come from a depopulation area. If students come from underdeveloped areas, underdeveloped regions, they should be granted a scholarship if they will later return to that area and develop it with their abilities and strengths. I believe that this is how we encourage and support the more even regional development of our country. As for the repayment of the loan, my question is, can they repay the loans if they didn't get a job? Is this in any way related to employment, because, otherwise, it's very difficult to repay credit? Also, I think it should be possible for poorer students not to repay credit, and if they have a slightly lower average rating. I think it's supposed to be over nine, I can't remember exactly, 8.5, but again, in the context of this connection, maybe for students who have a weaker material position, you should lower that criterion a little, so let them not return credit even though they may not have reached your 8.5 grade. That's, like, my suggestion. In the end, I'd like to say that Nikola Tesla has applied twice for a scholarship to the Serbian Matica... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... in Novi Sad, for the first time, on October 14, 1876, and then on September 1, 1878, and never received that scholarship, although in September 1892 he received the recognition of the English Association of Engineers and Scientists, and immediately thereafter the honorary doctorate of Columbia University. When he competed in late 1892, he was not elected a regular member of the Serbian Royal Academy. I want to quote it, though. He said this way: "The power of man is so great that the sky echoes and the earth trembles with the sound of his voice, but what slows down human motion is ignorance." Ladies and gentlemen, let's give our children a chance to run our country with our knowledge... (President: Will you please bring the end.) It's interesting, but you're already in second minute. )......................................................................................................... This is the last sentence, that with its knowledge we move our country and give them the opportunity to echo their voice to humanity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35849	Thank you. The People's MP, Mrs. Donka Banovic, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35850	Thank you, Madam President. I sincerely hope that the people who are working in this future fund, and those who are working in the current Youth Fund, will have more hearing for the students who are applying, so that what happened to Nikola Tesla in the last century doesn't happen. But that's proof that you never know why something is good. The question is, what if he got a job where he wanted to be? Today we have two draft laws on the agenda in the field of education and this third proposal is an agreement signed several years ago. It's only now that it's on the agenda to be ratified here. Since 2003, when the first law on the foundations of the education and education system was passed, which eloquents in the jargon call the "blood" law, there is a need for all segments to be governed by special law when it comes to education. It seems to me that the law on preschool education has been in place since 2006. In 2007, the Bill of Law was in the assembly procedure. Even some stages, such as the Committee's debate, have passed the examination of the amendments that were then submitted. Unfortunately, the bill never came on the agenda. After that year, it seems to me that the government has fallen, so, practically, this law has been working for almost four years. According to the roof law, for example, the law on secondary education is expected. As far as I know, that law could be in the second half of this year, too, on the agenda. He's late, especially with this preschool education law. However, I cannot say that the current minister is responsible for this delay. The ministers who led the Ministry of Education before him are also responsible. I can even say that this ministry in the last two years is quite productive. Along with these two laws, we have three laws in the field of education that we're talking about here. This shows that the sectors and officials working in the ministry are responsible and valuable. I don't think this minister is responsible for the delay in the law, but in any case I find him responsible, because he is a member of the government of the Republic of Serbia whose head is Mirko Cvetkovic, who is very responsible for the very bad economic and economic situation in Serbia today. He is a member and minister in the socially irresponsible government. The government, which, at the moment it was founded, called itself socially responsible, managed to have a very bad impact on the standard of life of all citizens for two years. Especially poverty, unfortunately, is slowly returning to families, especially families with children. For almost two years, salaries in the public sector have been frozen. They're frozen pensions. The moment the government was formed and Mr. Jovan Krkobbic, the deputy prime minister of the government, said he would do anything to make pensions grow and the pensioner's standard rise, from that point on, everything was frozen when it comes to pensions, so I, and probably pensioners, ask him not to make such statements anymore. After his statement, the pensions no longer moved. Prices are rising these days, and we've also got announcements that they're going to grow and collect all the energy. The current is more expensive than March 1st. It is announced that oil derivatives are being collected. The number of unemployed is currently in the National Employment Service, according to their records, 750,000, almost 3% compared to December 2009. All systems are at risk in this economic and economic situation. The health system is also at risk, and thus the education and education system is at risk, so is the preschool education system. This can be estimated and based on how many budget cuts are, in general, for education. In previous years, never have these separations been anything particularly great, and the enlighteners were never satisfied. But what worries is that it's the same situation all the time and, of that education money, 95% goes to employees' salaries. No money to invest, no money to invest in new facilities. There's no money for new curricula, doactive learning, and perhaps, what's worse, it's that there's no money to be used for professional training and teaching. I'm sorry, I'm a little cold. The entire education system is threatened by this very economic situation. As has been said here several times, the preschool period represents the backbone of the individual's overall further development. It has been scientifically proven that anything that skips or neglects during this period can hardly be compensated at older ages. I'm going to ask you to finish this exhibit in the end, and I'm going to use the next 10 minutes later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35851	There's 12 minutes left, so you'll have so much time. The word has a folk MP, Mrs. Radica Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35852	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we finally have one of the laws that we've waited very long for to be prepared and, when it was done, it took almost a year to come on the agenda. It's very difficult to arrange an area when you don't have a basic law. It is a very sensitive area of preschool education. Until the legislation on education and education systems was passed, this area was regulated under the social care system for children, i.e. A law on social care for children. During that period, pre-school education and education were among the three ministries -- the social affairs ministry, the education ministry and the health ministry. Such a complicated legislative regulation made it very difficult to carry out its work, until it became clear that it was necessary to unite the responsibilities of pre-school education and education within the framework of one ministry, through the separation of pre-school education and education from the domains of social care for children and unification into a single education and education system within the then Ministry of Education and Sports. When this assembly last year passed the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, it was finally concluded that the normative unification of the work of pre-school institutions in the framework of the work of education was to ensure greater efficiency and improvement of the work of pre-school institutions, as well as the improvement of the rights of children guaranteed by the United Nations Convention. For the first time, after a lot of complications, the entire education system began from preschool, primary and secondary education, was placed under the auspices of one law. However, because of all the changes made in various social spheres, due to family changes, in the way of growing up and so on, it has been shown that the Law on the founding of the education and education system is not sufficient and that it only imposes the need to adopt a new law that will regulate the field of pre-school education and education more precisely. I don't want to think that to pass this law was a crucial sentence in the reasons given by the Government, that the law was passed with the aim of bringing the pre-school education and education system in the Republic of Serbia closer and in line with the pre-school education system in the EU, but the fact that this law is necessary as bad as it is, so as to change it to amendments, and perhaps later, changes and additions, until it is consistent with what we need in practice in order for the education and education system to function. The law in general contains many inaccuracies, which leave room for wrong interpretations. If, by implementing the law in practice, we must constantly seek the interpretation of the Ministry, it just indicates how vague the law is. It is in Article 2, when it comes to leaving the possibility that the activity of preschool education can also be done at school, using the term "extremely", it does not define clear conditions when and for what reasons this activity can also be done at school. It is clear that this provision has been taken over by the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, which gives the school the opportunity to implement a pre-school pre-school programme, but it was necessary to define precisely when and for what reasons such a solution should be resorted to. It is not the first time in discussions that the SRS advocates respect for all rights of national minorities in our country that guarantees the Constitution and the law, we even think that these rights are much more respected than in some countries that have been longer for a number of years. In this law, for the provisions concerning the use of the languages of national minorities, we believe that they are fine, but I think it is an exaggeration to allow foreign countries, foreign legal and physical persons to establish pre-school institutions in our country and, of course, pre-school programs in a foreign language and, even as foreseen here, to regulate the use of language only by the statute of the institution. The SRS believes that even the conditions should be tightened and all checks should be carried out when approving legal or physical persons to establish a preschool institution. It is clear to us that the number of preschools whose founder of state or local self-government is not enough, but that is no reason for the state to allow cases like this one written about ten days ago, that one of the kindergartens owned by Lana Popovic, of which, in a financial investigation against the predatory drug lord Darko Saric, a 76-square apartment was taken away. In a financial investigation against Saric, a suspect in South American cocaine smuggling 2.7 tonnes, found that his money, named Lane Popovic, was purchased by a special court ruling under a temporary blockade. A house in which the kindergarten, with a physical hall and a large courtyard, where there were many children for a long time, could also be blocked. In the investigation, Lana Popovic was listed as a face in a long-standing relationship with Darko Saric. Is that what we're going to be in a situation where the money from cocaine smuggling and other narcotics, as popularly as it is, is being washed through kindergartens and preschools? Is it possible that because of the crisis and the misery, but not only economically but also morally, we will allow such things? Also on the European Integrations Committee, when they explained this law, the ministry's representatives pointed out that the network of preschool institutions is particularly bad in southern Serbia, but this is no reason for the state to allow anyone with some money to turn any house into a preschool institution. These should not be just places where children are sent to rest, but institutions where the awareness and integrity of new personalities are nurtured, develop positive qualities, start education at traditional, cultural and basic values. Well, aren't they built for drug trafficking money too? There are certain inaccuracies in the part that regulates the preparation of preschool programmes. The SRS considers that the preschool programme is the basis and basis of the work of preschool institutions and that it should therefore be specified that professional persons, in the highest professional rank in the institution, pedagogosis, psychologists, defecologists, educators, and that, prior to its adoption by the competent authorities, the opinion of the parent advice should be obtained. We also believe that, when it comes to special and specialized programmes, the term "other programs and forms of work and services" is very general and that it is necessary, so that we do not get through the various programmes under the influence of various organisations, that it must give parent advice to that part too, before they are prescribed by the minister. In view of the need for full coverage of children in environments where there are no spatial capacity, this bill is a paper that preschool institutions can implement preschool programmes in a traveling kindergarten, which means dedicatedly defined buses for children aged four to school. We think this, although it's positive as an initiative, is a little unserious and that in this way, from a serious institution like preschool, makes a traveling circus, not to say that when I first read this, it was one of our cult movies where all the activities took place on the bus, both in driving and on breaks. If we are all aware that the network of pre-school institutions is bad, many of us no longer remember when new pre-school institutions are opened in our places, Serbia, as a serious state, should do something to improve the network of institutions, so that as soon as it separates the money for which educations are in the form of various workshops, it immediately separates the money for at least two new kindergartens, not to suggest such inaccurate solutions in serious laws. I also have an objection to part of the organization of working with children. We believe that when children stay in an institution, they must have humane conditions and that they should be given the opportunity to commit themselves to working with children in the right sense. You'll agree with me that at the age of four to school leaving, which predicts the number of 24 children, with the possibility of being 20% higher, it won't always be possible. I know the minister here will mention, probably, the phenomenon of the coming child and point out that it rarely happens that all the children who are enrolled in the group are in the room, but we can't set the number of children away from that assumption. The SRS believes that the number of up to 15 children is maximum, if the real effects of educational work are desired, and that the number of children should be further reduced in cases where children with developmental disorders are included in the group, as they require special attention from teachers, additional time and involvement of educators and professional associates. We also have significant objections to the part that regulates teacher education. Again, the word "extremely" in Article 39. It's a bill of law. "Extremely, in the absence of an educator with the knowledge of the language of a national minority, an auxiliary teacher with language skills and at least secondary education can be hired by an educator." We think that the term "helper tutor with language skills and at least secondary education" opens the possibility that in these places staff who are not at all professional. Will you, Mr. Minister, give consent that only because you know the language, as auxiliary educators work both upper and lower shoe, butchers, hairdressers, blacksmiths and the like? I don't think this is serious. We have responded to the amendments to fix the provisions of the bill here as far as possible. While implementing specific and specialised programmes, the facility is expected to have other co-workers. Nowhere is prescribed and with any technical provision, even as their task, it is stated that they should only contribute to the achievement and improvement of the quality of educational work. You will agree that the contribution can be greater or smaller, or even very small, and their task would have to be to provide quality educational work. As far as the associate is concerned, just one more remark, it concerns the teaching assistant. I know that some unions have asked that pedagogical assistants be removed from the law, not to say that we are always the most radical solutions. The SRS has requested an amendment that the expert prepares a teaching assistant be clearly defined and that it is known that the institution can only have a number of teaching assistants. By reading the law, I somehow got the impression that the number of group associates is constantly increasing, firstly, the assistant educators, now, teaching assistants. I'm afraid there's been an opportunity left for every tutor to have two to three other associates. The kids won't know who to turn to anymore. Given the large number of unemployed in our midst, and with regard to the tendency for all to get a job in the budget, as well as the large number of swastikas, sisters and other relatives of local officials, I fear that one moment there will be more associates in the group than children. My colleagues will talk more about the law on student and student standards. I just want to say that despite everything the Ministry is doing, the level of student and student standards in Serbia is very low and that it is also very low. I believe that the criteria for the admission of students and students to their homes must be so clear as to prevent abuses and reduce the number of necessary documents for competition. It is also necessary for the rights to grant scholarships and loans and the conditions under which they return, or for students and students to be free of credit returns, to be clear and accurate. Provisions governing the obligations and responsibilities of pupils and students in institutions and provisions that regulate infringements of student and student obligations should also be complemented. Our view is that a student or student who has been given an educational-discipline measure for a serious injury to his obligation, and to remind them, the use of alcohol, the introduction of weapons and the like, should no longer have the opportunity to apply for housing in his home, not to be given, as stated in Article 17, only the number of points reduced by five. In the part of the law – the prohibition of discrimination, violence and abuse in institutions, it should be taken into account in particular that the measures introduced in order to achieve full equality and to protect the progress of a person, i.e. a group of persons in an unequal position, lead to a threat to persons who are allegedly in an equal position. I would agree with previous statements that the establishment of the Republic Fund for the Development of Scientific and Artistic Youth is just another attempt for a broad and complicated coalition to satisfy all appetites and that it is likely to go to the heart of talented children who show exceptional results, and I would talk about other provisions later. I'll leave five minutes to comment on what we hear.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35853	The word is from National MP Milan Knezevic, authorised representative of the Group of MPs, Forward Serbia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35854	The Honorable Chairman and Honorable fellow MPs, we ourselves saw in the Committee material yesterday that the Law on Student and Student Standard was passed in 1992 and completed in 1993. Surely these 20 years have changed many conditions, whether in the country's legal system or in other segments, and it was necessary to pass a new law that would follow the time that is now in our country's legal system. However, regardless of this, the adoption of laws relating to education and education always has this expert scientific and methodological approach, which must not depend on time. Thus, education and education, preschool education, as well as primary, secondary and higher education, have their own professional, scientific and other methodological approaches that do not depend on the circumstances of the system and the state in which they are being realized. The only difference is that funding in richer societies is much safer, safer and creates other benefits, but these basic education standards are the same everywhere. When adopting and considering such laws, the views of different political parties must, in part, refer to the methodology and scientific and professional approach to the problem of education, refer to science, to be based on these basic, circular methodologies and professional approaches in those areas, so that, regardless of the remarks you will hear and hear, these are remarks that move within the limits of respect for the basic methodological approaches of the area. The remark is ours, just like the other fellow MPs, which, in the last year and a half, has been partially passed by one law at a time. A law relating to education and education makes one whole. Practically, all laws, i.e. preschool education, primary, secondary, high, are bound by a feedback mechanism. Progress, improvement, new methodological approach in primary or secondary education has a return effect on preschool, so the real thing was the adoption of all these laws in the package. No matter how much we can read and follow them, there is always a better picture when the whole package of laws is passed, from pre-school to high school, together, and thus connects those segments that pull each other away and where the way they approach pre-school education improves primary education, i.e. secondary and high, and vice versa. The basic observation, as far as education law is concerned, education, is that we should have put them in the package, to look at all the problems that relate to the adoption of these laws. In addition, in every country, education, education and science make up the driving force of society and in order to achieve a better and better quality economic and social life in our country we have to invest in education, because it always comes back multiple, but the fact that it is a slow process, which takes longer, and that in that part we need to work on long paths and seriously to make the results more cost-effective. As far as the law on student and student standards is concerned, the Republic Fund for the Development of Scientific and Artistic Youth is at the end of the law. The title – The Fund for the Development of Scientific and Art Undercast, is beautiful, i.e. it should show the care of society and all mechanisms and systems of a society to take care and care of these talented young people, who, in addition to talent, will be quality, investment and extremely great work. The talent itself is not enough, but with their talent goes great effort and it separates them, certainly, from their peers, but we can't all be equally quality in business or learning. Bozan, both my and our parliamentary groups, is to make such a beautiful name and purpose – taking care of young perspectives, do not turn into an administrative fund that performs a job as some agency that performs various administrative tasks. That is why our comments are that this establishment of the fund is not merely an increase in the administration and only on the paper of taking care of young people, which is viewed only by marrying student scholarships. We have an explanation, and it's clear to me, that, in fact, by forming this republican fund, there is no such thing as existence, i.e. The established fund will take over the archive and commitments of the former Republican Fund for the Development of Scientific Youth, which was formed in 1987. This fund, which was formed in 1987, has unfortunately done little to develop this scientific and artistic rejuvenation, although it is called. In the previous period, we who are in the field of education, whether in high school or high school, know that, unfortunately, the interventions of this fund have been mirrored in giving scholarships to good and valuable students, possibly, in helping in their journeys to some competitions, although I say – possibly, because whenever our students went to competitions, we had to chase donors and sponsors, and probably have other educational workers in secondary and basic education. There have been many times in the media, whether in the public stands or so, that teachers point out that this scientific and artistic rejuvenation must not be solved by declarative legal formulations. When you look here at this about the Fund, we have the Fund's tasks, it's Article 72, then you look at - the responsibility of the Management Board. It has larger legal regulations, and it practically decides on closer conditions and criteria for scholarships and tendering for scholarships. Therefore, this article 72, where you have said and well written everything you need to deal with this fund, discourages me with those practical parts, precisely defined by the functions of the Management Board. That's why we're worried about this fund not continuing the practice that it's been until now, the practice of just granting student scholarships, giving reliefs in dorms, and getting it over with. The Minister of Education himself knows that talent care is a much more complex and serious problem. It's not just a scholarship, it's not just a home. If once, as a society and a state, by the reputation of other countries in Europe and the world, we really start to invest much more in the development of this scientific fund, then we will certainly have much better results. Earlier and longer-term investment in the development of talented young people will yield much greater and multiple results, especially as in this fund, if you have formed it, the elements of media promotion of such things should also be. Only legal members, a number of members of the law for this problem, are not enough. It takes promotion of youth care, it has other, social and sociological effects, a positive impact on the right pathways, the competences of young people in learning, the days we enter all the details. As for the development of scientific and artistic youth, I repeat, try to do much more here in your mandate, not only with scholarships, but perhaps with additional legislation that a fundamental approach to the development of scientific and artistic youth. This is all declarative and formal, not only for you in this law, but also in that law 15 and 20 years ago. We all swear to care for talented young children, and in practice we are all aware that this is really a minimal investment. When we look at the budget, when we adopt it, we've always had in the Board of Education remarks that little resources were allocated to this artistic and scientific rejuvenation. We've always mentioned these figures that are in the budget as negligible, small and insufficient. That's an obvious problem with this part of the law. I'd like to comment on a few more things. In this Article 4, these general conditions for the exercise of rights in the field of student and student standards are. If we take care of the student standard, diet students, you in Article 7, paragraph 2, say that the right to eat, from one meal a day, students who meet the general conditions of Article 4 and whose place of residence is the place of study. Just to be clear, those who are in the home and on the side have the right to three meals, those who are in the place of study, have one. Now perhaps you should find a mechanism to connect this member to Article 4 and this attitude where sensitive social groups are discussed. Unfortunately, we have a case that students or students in the housing areas have a way of eating much worse from these sensitive groups, although they may be in the family, rather than those on the side. Maybe we should give these sensitive categories, according to certain criteria, that they can get three meals in the student cafeteria, because they're on the verge of hunger, hungry students and students, literally, living in a place where they study and where they study. They have, even, very bad conditions for learning, sometimes worse than they do in dorms, and sometimes, unfortunately, they're hungry. In Article 10, which speaks of the right to student credit, and there are rules of the game clear, you say that the student credit user who has achieved an average rating of at least 8.5 and has not lost a single year of repayment. For scholarships, too, it's clear. But maybe we should be here, and that's our remark, to give them the opportunity to get rid of the loan returns and the students who graduated from college. As a professor at college, believe me, you probably know, sometimes the average of 6.2 is very good for a student who's completed medicine in six years and three months, so, within that insolvency period, or if he's graduated from law school. Perhaps, beyond the average rating, which points to greater effort and more work, perhaps even greater intelligence, this should be achieved, but also this effort by a student who has not lost a year and who has completed his university within a period of time should be evaluated. If his semester ended in May, then we have those who graduate until October, and it's known that the insolvency period is six months. It should also be intervened in this part, so that even those students who graduate from college are freed from the repayment of loans. That would be motivation on another level, and useful and significant, because sometimes the average score has a lot of variables. It's also effort and work, but one is effort and work for someone who's in poor socio-economic conditions and the other is better. The same effort and learning of this must be presented by a smaller assessment because it has many other problems. I think we should put in a regular study within the deadline, without losing the year, to get the same set free. Since we have two provinces, in Article 13, in these activities, and these are competitions, it should be stated that there are rural, regional and republican competitions. As for other activities and members of the 23rd law, which is equally significant, we are all aware that at the summer break, students who study on the side go to their places and that student and student homes are either empty or half empty, so that there are free places. Perhaps this position of Article 23(2) should be limited by certain criteria, by a percentage of the capacity that the institution can provide services to third parties as well. I have no objection to Section 3. And so far, so it should be, that over the summer, when there is summer practice and summer exchange of students from various universities and schools, within the country or from other countries, and professors and students in that student trade, there are to be provided with places in those homes. In this economic area, which will certainly help home, it is appropriate to provide services to third parties conscious of some percentage estimates, quantified capacities, through which it should not be crossed to avoid abuse. There are a lot of members where you set up a condition to deliver something. For example, in Article 40 – the obligation to adopt a development plan, but there is no deadline. Article 45 — keeping records. Article 67 – on the withdrawal of licences to be notified by the Ministry. So, you made a commitment to deliver annual plans, records, notifications, but you didn't tell the deadline, and about that, later on, in those criminal provisions, there are no sanctions for the offenders of those deadlines that you gave them yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35855	Professor Knezevic, it's been 20 minutes. Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Jon Magda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35856	Your Honor, Madam President, Madam Chairman, Your Honor, Mr Secretary, allow me to point out a few of the general positive matters of these two laws that we are discussing today. From the explanation of fellow MPs who have taken the floor so far, we can see that there have been no more serious objections to these laws. Therefore, we can say that you have brought before the Assembly a good bill. Globalisation and technological development have a huge impact on the formation and development of human capital for the 21st century society, knowledge-based societies. In the second half of the 20th century and in the 21st century, globally we see the development and growth of the influence of political institutions, the expansion of international trade, the development of communication systems, the development of science and technology, but also the spread of various diseases, pollution, crime. At the same time, Serbia is characterised by a demographic decline, a depopulation of villages and the largest number of people underqualified by knowledge. One large part of the population leaves the education system very early, leaving themselves and the society without benefits that long-term education brings. The strategic framework of this law is the following strategic documents of the Government of Serbia: Strategy for poverty reduction, Millennium Development Goals, National Action Plan for Children, National EU Integration Plan, Sustainable Development Strategy, Strategy for improving the situation of persons with disabilities, Action Plan for Roma Education. The adoption of this law is foreseen primarily by the new law on the basis of the education and education system, as well as the Strategy for reducing poverty and the National Action Plan for Children. Strong scientific evidence from social, economic and medical sciences shows that growth and development of children from birth to six years of age are being promoted. The best investment for the development of the human capital necessary for economic growth is to bring huge personal, public and social benefits in the long term, because it helps lifelong learning and socialization. Preschool education and education enables children to have a better basis for starting primary school education, affecting increased child enrolment rates, later contributes to better school success, prevention of social exclusion, reduction of school leaving rates, etc. It is particularly important for children from marginalised groups and socially-culturally depressed environments, who in their environment did not have enough incentives for development and which can therefore lag behind and leave school quickly. The adoption of a law on pre-school education and education suggests that investing in earlier growth and development of children today is the best investment in the development of our society in the future. The adoption of the Law on the Education and Education System, the work of pre-school education and education was arranged under the system of social care for children, the Law on Social Care for Children from 1992, with changes until 2003, so that pre-school education and education was within the competence of three ministries: the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education, which made it difficult to achieve pre-school work. During the application of the law, circumstances, conditions and requirements for the right to preschool education and education changed. The Law on the Foundations of the System in a unique way provides the basics of the system, pre-school, primary, secondary education and education, and this: education and education goals, education and education principles, general outcomes and standards of education and education and institutions to ensure the quality of education and education, National Educational Council, institutions, etc., network of institutions, conditions for establishing, starting and performing the work of the institution. This law sets out in a unique way the conditions for the director of preschool institutions, level of education, conditions for admission to employment, work permit and permit for educators and professional associate, the norm of direct work with children. The Preschool Education and Education Act regulates the objectives and tasks of education in pre-school institutions, the way in which work is done in pre-school institutions, the organisation of the work of pre-school institutions and the work of separate departments, the content of the basics of pre-school education programme, the type of pre-school education and education programme and services, the organisation of work with children, jobs and tasks of educators and professional associates, the level of their education. Now I'm going to discuss the individual solutions to this law. The work of preschool education and education has been defined as a work of direct social interest, which meets the needs of children and families. The work of education and education is achieved in preschool children's education and education, from six months to school. The work of pre-school education shall be carried out in a pre-school institution, exclusively at school, in accordance with the Law on the founding of a system of education and education and in accordance with this law. Article 5 The bill provides for the use of language, both in Serbian and for children of national minorities, who provide educational and educational work in the mother tongue, bilingually or in the Serbian language, if 50% of parents, or children's guardians, are defined. Data is possible for a part of the program or program in general to be realized in a foreign language. Articles 8 to 11. The bill regulates the establishment of a pre-school institution, which can be established by the Republic, autonomous province and units of local self-government, as well as by another legal or physical person, in accordance with the law. Provisions of Art. 13th and 14th. The bill has been arranged to enroll children in a preschool facility. It is prescribed that children from sensitive groups, children with developmental disturbances, foster children, children from socioeconomicly threatened environments are given the priority of enrolment. Special attention is given to education programs. The newspaper is a provision that stipulates that preschool institutions can implement preschool programmes in a traveling kindergarten, in a dedicatedly equipped bus, for children aged four to school. This provides complete coverage of children in environments where there is no spatial capacity. The preschool preparation programme has been established as a special part of the preschool programme. He's coming true in preschool, and extremely in school. Making a preschool prep program is free of charge. Art. 27 and 28. The bill proposes that the pre-school education and education programme be implemented throughout the day, from nine to 12 hours a day. During the half-day period, the preschool prep programme is four hours a day, for a half-day period – six hours a day, up to three times a week, and for several days – longer than 24 hours. Children with developmental disorders exercise the right to preschool education and education in the educational group, along with an individual educational and educational plan. A child with developmental disturbances is predicted to be included in the educational or development group when enroling or attending preschool programmes. Articles 36 to 46. The bill sets out the tasks and level of education of persons who carry out the work of pre-school education and education – educators and professional associates, as well as persons who carry out their work in the function of achieving education and education by providing care, nutrition, preventive, health and social protection. The provision of Article 47 stipulates that employees in pre-school institutions exercise the right to strike, in accordance with the law, provided that the minimum working process is ensured during the strike. I welcome the efforts of the Ministry of Education and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to find a solution to define the lower limit for salaries of employees in pre-school education and education. I hope that in the course of the week, Mr. Minister, we will have some decision and we will be able to come to the Committee, when we discuss the amendments, to propose an amendment, so that we can accept it in particular. A few words about the Law of Student and Student Standard. First of all, the reason for the new law is also the need for the current law to be brought into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Under the current law, the right to establish institutions of student and student standards has only the Government of the Republic of Serbia. However, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in Article 137(4), requires public services to be set up by the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province and a unit of local self-government. The student and student standard is to support the system of secondary education and education and the system of higher education. Practice has shown that the student and student standards are specific and that, as a system, it should remain outside the general, i.e. a special law governing the system of secondary education, i.e. the system of higher education, and for the sake of consistent functioning of institutions of student and student standards. A few goals of this law. This law provides for the availability of secondary and higher education under the most favourable conditions for all students and students in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and, without any discrimination, the promotion of successful students and students, systematic and organised monitoring and care about the development of highly gifted students and students for scientific and artistic work, the establishment and arrangement of the organisation and work of the Republic Fund for the Development of Scientific and Art Under-Students, the enabling students and students from sensitive social groups to exercise their rights in the fields of student and student standard for more favourable conditions, the establishment of a system of institutions of student and student standards, with clearly defined conditions for the establishment and work of institutions, the authority of the institution and the obligation of staff to improve professionally. Then, the prohibition of discrimination, the prevention of negative behaviour in institutions and the care of security in institutions, the improvement of professional work in the home of pupils and the student centre, the achievement of full supervision of the work of institutions and inspection and supervision of the legality of the work of institutions, in particular expert-pedagogical supervision of the work of institutions of the student standard. Chapter 1 is replaced by the following: The draft law is governed by the basic provisions. Articles 1 to 5 are governed by the subject of law, the aim of student and student standards, the rights of high school students and students in the field of student and student standards, general conditions for the exercise of rights in the field of student and student standards and the exercise of the performance of student and student standards. Especially for students and students from sensitive social groups, an affirmative measure is envisaged to exercise the rights laid down in this law under the conditions laid down by law and the application of softer criteria, as prescribed by the minister. The bill regulates the rights, obligations and responsibilities of students and students, the right of students and students to stay and eat, the right of students to eat, the right to study work, the right to student credit, the right to student credit, the right to student and student scholarship, the right of students to rest and to recover and the right to cultural, artistic, sports and recreational activities, educational and disciplinary responsibility of students and the disciplinary responsibility of students. This law regulates the types of institutions, the work of certain institutions, the implementation of other activities, the establishment of institutions, the network of institutions, the conditions for establishment, the start of work and the operation of institutions, the organisation of a working unit of the institution. Unlike the applicable law on student and student standards, which does not provide for the categorisation of housing and nutrition institutions, i.e. the facility for rest and recovery of pupils and students, as well as food standards, this law recognized the need to verify the current situation in institutions in an appropriate manner, for objective consideration of the situation, in order to create an initial basis for improving the conditions for accommodation, rest and recovery, as well as for feeding students and students according to recognised standards. That's where I'd stay at the establishment of the facility, because it's a newspaper in this law. It is possible to establish such institutions and autonomous provinces and local self-government. We know that we have an insufficient number of institutions of student and student standards, and opportunities in local self-government exist, and it is normal that local self-government will find the possibility to realise such projects, meaning to establish institutions of student and student standards. Chapter IV of the Law provides for the bodies of the institution, Art. 47 to 59. The institutions have a board of directors and directors, and in the home of students and the student centre, and a pedagogical higher, as well as an expert body. The bill also addresses issues relating to staff in the institution, especially educators and professional associates, psychologists and educators in the institutions of the student standard. In the discussion in detail, we will explain these laws in more detail. The agreement was also on the Committee on Education to communicate well with the Ministry and to expect co-operation. Some of the amendments submitted by fellow MPs are likely to be accepted, so my opinion is that these laws are good. On behalf of the ZES Parliamentary Group, I can say that we will support a whole set of these laws, and I recommend that other parliamentary groups do the same, because it is in the interests of our children and in the interest of the future of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35857	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35858	Thank you to colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament who have participated so far as to be authorised representatives of parliamentary groups or as heads of Parliament in the debate on these laws, because they are, however, the basic ideas on behalf of the parliamentary groups that they represent. For me as Minister, it was interesting to hear the light and suggestion and remarks, but also to praise the proposed laws. I think it's better that in this part, when we finish one part of the debate, I give the answers to the questions asked, to avoid that possibility this afternoon, and compared to what is said in the afternoon, I'll try to answer those questions as well. Dear fellow Members of the People, in my opinion, as Minister of Education of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the best education systems are those that are constantly upgraded, which means, not when it's being destroyed, but all of a sudden, but taking good things from the previous system, they're being badly eliminated, newspapers are being introduced, there's been a constant evaluation, and then, through this constant change, the system perfectes and gives good results. This is what I am saying in the context of questions asked by my colleague, Rangelovic, about traveling kindergartens and, I think, my colleague Plassic, for traveling kindergartens and traveling teachers. Believe it or not, the idea was established, at least around kindergarten, was promoted by the Educational Council of the Republic of Serbia in 1977. Otherwise, UNICEF took over from NGOs, implemented in certain countries, provided funds to make it part of the education system afterwards. This idea of traveling kindergartens is acceptable for us and we apply it, but we still don't have enough resources to have traveling teachers. There is a material factor limiting us, as is the idea of lifelong learning. Some prominent professors from Germany told me, one of them is also the winner of the biggest prize in the field of education (as there is an NBA, the Celebrity House, and in education there is a 'The House of Fame', in America), one of them told me – you know, we took the idea of lifelong learning from you from the former Yugoslavia through the idea of adult education. I'm saying this to see how important it is in education that good ideas exist, and they can always be upgraded and re-applyed. It would be good if we had considered these laws in July, I'd love to. Unfortunately, the agenda of the Assembly was such that these two laws were one week late compared to the previous two, the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System and the Law on textbooks; they had entered the procedure and had not been discussed so far by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That's bad. It's a good thing it's been a few months, so we've had the opportunity to see the contents of these two laws and, compared to their content, see if there are any of these negative things and how do we get rid of it. Let me tell you right now, some of the remarks we have heard will be accepted through the amendments made by some fellow Members of the people and from the SRS, and from New Serbia and other parliamentary groups. So we don't have that kind of a prioritized attitude to not accept the amendments. On the contrary, whatever is right, We shall accept all things. Let me now answer a few very specific questions. I made a note here about a dozen. Don't be angry, I may not go from preschool to student standard, but according to order, as they are exhibited during the afternoon work of the National Assembly. The network of institutions of student and student standards is not good. It's possible, but it's part of the inherited state, as well as the entire education system, from the time before. I can remind you that the entire education system was founded decades ago in the former Yugoslavia. Belgrade was the education centre of the great Yugoslavia and all students from the former Yugoslav republics were coming to study in Belgrade, so it probably prompted the need for the largest number of student homes and real homes in Belgrade. Who was ever in the Student City, and I modestly say to myself that I was a certain number of years, as a student and as a graduate, knows what it means to be in a student home or in a student town and what the Student City meant to be for student life and, in general, to the University and University Centres in Serbia. So that's true and it's an inherited condition. We're trying to move a little things. At the Ministry, we began to implement a project to build a student home in Nis. We want to make it in Nis, for the first time in 30 years, one dormitory and do it in the coming years, because we think Nisu needs it. It should take other environments, but we're starting with Nis, with these modest financial resources. When it comes to the network, we should also talk about it because, generally, the network of educational institutions does not follow the demographic situation in Serbia. It's a topic we need to talk about at all levels and all the bodies that are dedicated to education. When it comes to the Republic Fund for the development of scientific and artistic youth, no offense, many colleagues knocked on the open door without knowing enough about the institution. That institution exists. The bottom line is that we, by this law and these solutions, want to fully legalise the work of the Youth Development Foundation, which is becoming a fund. All people are being taken over, no new ones are being accepted, no financial resources will be increased for their work, board members will not receive cash compensations, as in general, in all educational institutions of the Republic of Serbia, members of administrative and supervisory boards do not receive compensation for their work. That was the '90s, that's how it is today. At student resorts, student centres and other student and student institutions, no one gets the funds for that part of the work. I want to tell you that we have some information on what it looked like in school 2008/09. A year. The Ministry of Education participated with 81,400,313 dinars, while the Ministry of Science and Technological Development participated in the financing of scholarships from the Republic Foundation with 14,040,000. So, the Ministry of Science and the Ministry of Education co-financed last year. We also want to include the Ministry of Culture, to be, as we speak and the artistic work, something that will help these young talented students and students. Of course there is a young talent fund, which works well, has good results, and there are other ways of promoting and supporting young talent, is not all about scholarships. I must tell you that we at the Ministry of Education pay whenever we have money, and for that we have, and the cost of preparation and travel expenses, and when young students win those medals in world competitions. I have to tell you that as a minister, not a full month and a half ago, at an international conference on knowledge and education in London, when there were 75 ministers of education around the world, I was pleased to say that our students have won over 400 medals in mathematics, physics, astronomy, computerism over the last four years. The others were astounded. Otherwise, we don't judge our education system with quality, but we don't need to underestimate it, we want it to be better, how good results we have at that age. The point is – how after? I must tell you that some of these young geniuses live in dormitories. This guy from Capca, I forgot his name, he's one of these five-six mathematicians who's now passed admissions to Cambridge, lives in a dormitory. We helped him beyond the general conditions he has, through certain computers, of course, thanks to Telekom, that he also technologically and scientifically be equipped to monitor everything that is his area. So his place of residence wasn't a handicap, was it? There are a lot of such children who get the opportunity, what the state gives them, try to take the best of it, and really have results. Don't get me wrong, that doesn't mean we're successful, but it doesn't mean we're bad, that there's some good things to promote. So there's room for both one fund and another, in this case there won't be any additional funding for their work, and it won't be any extra funding, except we want the Ministry of Culture involved, and that these three ministries, by certain means, help the work of this fund, and we are, in fact, setting a legal framework for all of this. I told you, the previous law was from 1992, and the Republic Foundation for the work of scientific and artistic youth was formed in 1987. She's also done it without this law, but the bottom line is now that this law, through this fund, is going to be absolutely legalized. We think that's good. We are working on this, and we are not alone, there is the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, because this issue has to be arranged in a way that when the lower threshold is agreed, the possibility for local self-governments to give more if they have money, to increase the income of those people in pre-school institutions who have low income compared to the economic situation in local self-governments where the same amount of money is received for the same professional arrangement. Then we need to secure it through the transfer funds to local self-government. That's why we need the Ministry of Finance, because the complex of questions requires more ministries to be hired. We'll see on the Committee, if we have to, to create a legal basis through one amendment to the Committee, so we'll sort it out. Otherwise, in the government of the Republic of Serbia, among all members of the government, there is absolutely no agreement to resolve the issue. A few colleagues mentioned, and that is the essence, that this law on preschool education and education we want to increase the general coverage of children in preschool education and education, but only this preparatory preschool programme is mandatory, the rest is not. It is also an answer to Jojic's question about payment. The preschool preschool programme pays the state. Of course, since it is paid by the state, all the children who are at that age should be in preschool institutions, and if the facilities in preschool institutions are small, and unfortunately they are, they should build preschool institutions, then the part of preschool preparation is done in schools, and then schools should do so, and the state pays. When it comes to this previous age of preschool education and education, we are precisely because of these relatively small capacities and allowed private preschool institutions to be established. My colleague, Radica, asked about a particular case. You know how, we are not in a situation like the Ministry to determine the property map, especially indirect links, direct or indirect, with any person in Serbia. There are standards, there are conditions, they're normative, they're practical, there's an elaborate that's submitted to issue a permit to open a preschool facility. After that, the relevant state authorities are also going to the site to check the condition of the facility to see if it meets the requirements. But we're not in a position to know the source of the money, there's other state bodies that take care of it, so you'd have to understand that dimension of this job. Pedagogical assistant. The basis for pedagogical assistants is found in the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, in Article 121. That's where we listed the type and level of education he should have. And it's no secret, that's what we were saying, and when we talked about the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, it refers to our fellow teaching assistants, whose function is to help members of the Roma minority community get involved in the education system, because according to the data that I mentioned 40% of children are covered, and when it comes to Roma children, that data is even worse. No doubt that helps us to make the result better. By the way, I want you to know that we and the OSCE signed one document last year involving 28 teachers across Serbia in the education system, and that the OSCE pays for it, but for another school year, after that, we will take over. We simply want to encourage the various ways and members of the Roma minority community to be part of the education and education system of the Republic of Serbia and to deliver better results. When it comes to the treatment of education in the budget, I have nothing to add to what you all said. I would like our budget, our education allocation to be greater than it is, because we have a strategy for the sustainable development of the Republic of Serbia by 2016, the projection that the share of education should be 6% of the social gross product. It's about 3.46% now, but my colleagues comfort me that at the level of local self-government, it's 0.8%. I asked that this methodology of calculation, calculation, is standardised and that we don't speak in different languages, we or the World Bank, to know exactly how much is set out, so let's see if, in terms of how much is being allocated, that effect is compatible with the funds or the smaller, what we need to change. I agree that we have little resources, because a huge part of that budget of the Ministry of Education goes to personal staff and then we have very little left, and there are a lot of things to do. counterpart Petar Jojic also asked about a situation that was in some years ago. I have a letter from the director, so I'll read it to you after my colleague Jojic asked, or a colleague Markovic. Even better, since you're here, then you'll be able to react if you're not satisfied with the answer. "The home of high school students in Belgrade, in April - October 2005, was subject to budgetary inspection. The budget control report noted a number of work gaps. As one of the consequences is the conduct of a disciplinary procedure against a number of employees, among them six managers and head of educational work services. At the moment of the appointment of the new director, Mr. Ivan Mikcevic, these disciplinary procedures were outdated. However, in accordance with our powers, we consciously predicted this fact and ended it, where they were blamed and disciplined, with the maximum fine." So, although the procedure was outdated, the new director felt that you should be punished and those penalties were carried out. We shouldn't have resorted to more radical punishments because they would have been brought down in court. That's a fact. The Third Prosecutor's Office of the Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade launched an investigation and after that, the indictment was filed. After that, we have information that more discussions have been held and that the criminal proceedings have not yet been completed. The "Home of High School Students" institution is not a participant in the process, but is being conducted on official duty. If you have any information, I'd like you to let us know. When it comes to the Fund, I said. About selling a place in dorms. With these amendments, or the bill, we have very precisely established certain measures to prevent it. Unfortunately, it's an old topic and there are as many homes as there are. However, we have now tried to make the bill a solution, a criminal measure, which should be eradicated. Article 16 The bill, as a weighty breach of obligations, provides for students to abuse the right to accommodation and to grant accommodation rights to third parties, to grant rights to a student who has been disciplined, exclusion from the institution. For the above-mentioned serious injuries, he permanently loses the right to accommodation and nutrition in the dormitory. So everyone will be able to think about the consequences of their actions, if someone abuses the right of the state to provide it, then the proper consequence must be. The loss of rights in the institution shall also be notified to the higher education institution in which the student is enrolled. We think this is the way we're going to solve it. SRS colleagues have asked questions about the quality of nutrition in pupils' homes. It is precisely this bill of law on student and student standards that we are now trying to address the problem of food quality, by introducing standards of quality and safety, so-called. "Hasap" standard. So we've been working in advance on it in practice, trying to solve this problem. We've taken appropriate measures. At the end of 2009, we organized a seminar for chefs for professional training and application in practice. Data is a recommendation for a menu in two weeks. It may seem too detailed to someone, but to be even more practical, I call on the Committee on Education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to, whenever it wants, be a guest of one student or student home and to check the quality of food there and whether everything is in line with standards, because our opinion is that we should really check it out, and then perhaps compare it with the quality of food in the facilities you use, so that you can see how good the food quality is. That's what some of my colleagues told me. I have no reason not to trust them. About the boards of directors, I said, about the food I said, about receiving people. In these projects, and I want you to know, what we do with international organisations, it's true, they pay certain people and that price is from 300, 400 to 1,100 euros, according to the data I have. Our people, when I say our people, I mean from the Ministry, they don't accept funds for it. They're engaged in the professional work. In fact, we have a problem with some people receiving decent amounts for what they're doing, but our people at the Ministry are engaged in a professional work and do not receive compensation. They're receiving personal income. Whoever's part of the project doesn't take personal income and they engage on the side. There's also a professional engagement, which is decided by the one who gives the money. It's objectively beyond our influence and power. I want you to know that the people in the Ministry who participate in the implementation of the projects do not receive any financial compensation, as I said not to be received by members of the boards of directors and supervisors. Rationalization, the problem we're working on. A colleague, Plassic, mentioned material status, which was not sufficiently valuable at the scholarship. That's right. That's why we're going to settle this issue with these sublaws. The provision of services to third parties, colleague Knezevic. Right, and there is, but I have to tell you that it's very precisely regulated in both dorms and dorms, and in student resorts, and in student homes; there are months when students, or students, move out, and you know exactly the price and everything. I also have to tell you about student resorts, that at these years, and because of the economic situation that existed, in these institutions it was a good source of income, to invest in maintenance and quality of the institution. Otherwise, because of our economic situation, we were objectively unable to invest more significantly, but we know exactly the procedure, this is being considered on the board of directors of the institution. You know exactly the time. Most importantly, students and students are not in any way damaged. On the contrary, it is done in those months and in those times when students or students have an exam deadline or something, when the school break is, when they're not there. Otherwise, it's been done for decades. Some of us who know each other from the Student City, back in those years, know that it was a common practice, there was no problem. A student who wanted to keep his bed, at least then was a practice, I'll ask if she was changing, paid for his bed, or bed, during those months, and there was no problem with that. In the end, let me ask you, since I've heard a part of the criticism about European standards and so on. Dear fellow Members of the People, I also told the world-sava Academy that there is no European education without a European system of values and in the field of education, nor a Serbian place in the EU if we do not apply what is good. I also have my own explanation, very logically, and you don't have to agree with it, but I don't think there's any element, any move, or any action that can be questioned that we can't apply it, if we want to, and if we want to improve our education system. It may seem paradoxical, but to me, it's a very strong argument, firstly, that we should apply ours, if you will, both history and present. If Dositej Obradovic was still in 1808, in one of the rebel, peasant, illiterate, warring and then independent of Serbia, he managed to convince the illiterate leaders at the time in the need to establish a school and implement European subjects to be part of the education system, to lay the foundations of the future educational system of the Republic of Serbia, then now, in the 21st century, with this potential we have, with the knowledge we have, somehow out of logic that we can be prey or subject to someone who can convince us that we do not have enough knowledge, skills and skills to implement what is part of the European system, of course, in a way that we consider necessary. To protect our history, spirituality, quality and all, but to create for these children the opportunity to step forward with others, to achieve good results, because Europe is being made part of the European education system. The Bologna Declaration applies 47 countries, more or less, one way or another, but it applies and creates a space for passability, teachers and students and university staff. That's a fact. I have to tell you, and globally, these global movements are being watched. Everyone's trying to speed up the race in education because everyone's trying to find their place. The great are working towards the economic opportunities and interests of their countries. We kids need to find our place. To be honest, in addition to the potential we have and people who work at all levels of education, if we are ready to talk, it is one of the key conditions for me, since the economy is always, and someone will call for money, if we are ready to talk about open problems, we will certainly come up with good solutions for the education system of the Republic of Serbia. These two laws are meant to improve the system. We'll talk about them this afternoon and, when they're amended, we'll accept every good amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35859	Right on line, MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35860	It's good, Mr. Minister, that you've listened to what the MPs say and that part of the discussion will be incorporated into this bill. Something left unsaid to me, you said there wasn't, that there might be very little reselling in the dorms, but that you would stop it by this law. I don't see how, but it will be prevented in the most rigorous way that anyone who resells will no longer have the right, etc. It's not about students who get a place in a dormitory, so they resell it, but organized groups. If you've been in the Student City, you know very well that these groups have existed for years, but that until today they haven't been abolished. Make sure you stop it. I'm glad you organized a seminar for chefs, but they don't seem to need a seminar, they need groceries. They know how to cook very well. From what they get, they'll hardly be able to cook better food than they cook. There's one more thing you mentioned about these dormitories and the crime that one student discovered. When he started talking about this crime, I thought -- what a young boy. However, when he showed the documentation, it was seen that the wardens, or I don't know if the director or the warden, or just the manager of this house, had become a big deal at the crime scene. I see now that he's been fined by the current director of the House of Student Standard, but that punishment is a drop in the sea from what he took from the student standard, from the student dinar. It's a good thing this criminal report was initiated, but it wasn't initiated by the state authorities, it was launched by a private person and it's still subject to resolution. The young man then, a user of the student standard, is called Ivan Minić. He also initiated this criminal application, as I recall, and of course I shouldn't say that this young man today is a very successful student of the Faculty of Law and a member of the SRS anti-corruption team. One more thing and I'm done. I'm sorry, Mrs. Comic, just two more words. Mr. Minister, while we're here, Serbian citizens are interested, the MPs are interested, will this University "Singidunum" really buy the one they're talking about? Will a man have money by buying a mole to drill those tunnels down there, will he have enough money to buy the university? How will the Ministry of Education be determined according to the owner of that university?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35861	The word has a minister. Please, just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35862	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The food will be enough for the students and students in the dorms and dorms, and once again I publicly invite you to be a guest, to see if the course has yielded results or has not yielded results. It may prove that food may be better there than you use it here, so it may well be convenient for you to know, since you are the subject of frequent criticism that in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia everything, as I would say, is honey and milk. Thank you, Nikola, so it wouldn't be bad for you to see it and bring it to court. It's like this, by the way. This essentially, I said, really, is where the facts stand, this young colleague initiated this procedure and the director who came did not have legal opportunities to react differently than he did. He punished them within those powers which he had. Thanks to the young colleague's initiative, the Third Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office took the case into account. Now some law, i.e. the state institutions of the Republic of Serbia, gives absolutely that court and any guilty person the appropriate punishment. As far as this last question is concerned, you know, probably, but maybe the public doesn't know that, as the accreditation process is regulated, confidence is positive. The Ministry is issuing a permit to change the ownership structure, i.e. change of ownership, we are informed. We have been informed by the Dean "Singidunum", Mr Stanisic, that there has been no change in the ownership structure. We've been officially informed of it, and as Minister, I can only officially tell you that. Other things, to be honest, are written and spoken in the media, but we haven't officially received any such confirmation. We've received official information from Dean Singhidunum that there's been no change in ownership structure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35863	Before I set a break, I would like to inform the MPs that we will be working after 18 hours today, and until the debate ends, the point that will be the subject of our debate at the moment. I am informing the MPs that RTS has informed us, or the secretary of the Serbian Parliament, Mr Veljko Odalovic, that today, on 3 March 2010, the direct transfer of the session will take up to 1740 hours, and all the other hours of our work will be delayed. Thank you. We'll continue work at 15.05 hours. [[After break – 15/05]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work in the afternoon session. Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? National MP Donka Banovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35865	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. I'd like to take advantage of, I think I have 12 minutes left from an authorised representative, in this, to call him, the first part of the debate, and I've been told by authorised representatives of all the parliamentary groups. We all agreed, we all feel alike, and we all know how important preschool education and education are, and I don't think there's any major objection to the bill, at least when it comes to preschool education. You don't have to be some big expert, but when you think about what's important to have a quality preschool education, then there are two strategic goals. It's that you have as many children as possible. It would be ideal if, at some point in Serbia, the coverage were 100%, so there is no child who does not attend preschool or preschool. But it's for a little later. Of course, there's always the possibility that it can be prescribed by law. It's probably a distant future. But you have an example that in some European countries today and secondary education is required under the law. I think that's one way to go. This first goal is to have as many children as possible covered by preschool education and education. The second goal is to make this preschool education and education as high as possible. It is the task of both the Ministry and all of us, as well as the legislator of these laws, to see what measures and ways to achieve these two goals. Right now, the big problem is the small coverage of preschool children. For example, between three and five years, it covers 35 percent to 40%. According to the research, I think it was somewhere in 2002, there were 35% coverage. The latest research shows that this coverage is somewhat larger at the moment. Since 2006, preparatory preschools have been introduced and according to the Ministry of Education, namely, the Ministry of Education says that around 96% is covered, but people say that statistics are not good, because there are certain groups, so to speak, or sensitive groups where the coverage is much smaller. For example, when it comes to children of Roma nationality, this coverage is about 45%, the coverage of children from the village is about 50%, and for children with developmental disorders, that coverage is only about 10%. So these are pretty unfavourable data. One of the main reasons why this low coverage is so low is the inadequate network of preschool institutions. In some cities, there is a preschool facility, but there are also untapped capacities, while in other cities you have a large number of children, i.e. a small number of preschool institutions, but therefore you have waiting lists. For example, in Belgrade, Novi Sad, even, I know, in Zrenjanin, as soon as a child is born, the parent puts the child on the waiting list to book a place so that tomorrow he can go to preschool. That's not good, but it's, say, something that's inherited. I guess, I don't suppose, but I do know that there used to be a lot more children in smaller places, so then these capacities are built according to existing needs. Today, unfortunately, some places are empty, so we get empty preschool facilities, while in other cities we don't have room, but we have these waiting lists. I'm going to comment on some of the amendments we've submitted. For example, I have already mentioned Belgrade, waiting lists, but in Belgrade and some other cities there are institutions, we call them giant institutions, where, for example, an educational institution has over a hundred educational groups. We're asking the amendment to change that to 50. We don't think there can be any quality work in preschool where you have over a hundred educational groups. A hundred educational groups means at least a hundred educators. Where are all the others who work here? Not to mention the surveillance of such institutions. It's hard for the director of one such institution to know all the workers, so I think the quality of such large preschool institutions is worse than it could be. We've submitted the amendment, I think it's Article 9, where you've led the facility to have up to a hundred groups. We suggest 50 and please take a look at it. We're still talking about coverage. The coverage of children in villages is, unfortunately, bad, above all, because there are no classical preschools. Now it comes to me, the village of Moses, is between Chačka and the King. That village is very happy, because it almost always has about 20 preschool children. So they're lucky, because many villages no longer, unfortunately, don't have residents or children but, on the other hand, these children don't attend preschool. The nearest preschool facility is about 20 or 25 kilometers away. For preschool preparation, they sort of fold, so the older brother or sister take the child to Chačka or Kraljev or Mrjaevci, to attend preschool prep there. These are just some anomalies that we'd all have to try to fix together. You are this law, although, as far as the law is concerned, the newspaper is not in the "blood" law, but in practice there's already enough that another natural or legal person can set up a preschool. We also intervened here, because you talk a lot about it in the law, and in the first part, where you say who can be the founders, you missed out on it. I suggest you accept our amendment so that the law is consistent. It's a newspaper that's good. The second paper that appears in the law, but not in the first members, where it should also stand, is that this preschool activity can also be carried out in areas that are adequately equipped, which satisfy legal regulations, and do not have to be a classical preschool institution. It'll be a long time before some local self-government has enough money to build a new preschool facility, and there's no need. For example, when it comes to villages, you have local communities buildings, you have former cultural homes and it must be cheaper to invest and choose such objects than to build new ones. It is also one of the newspapers that this law provides and I think it will contribute to a greater coverage of children. This second strategic goal, it doesn't have much time, is that preschool has to be as high-quality as possible. It depends a lot on local self-government, which most like to save when it comes to preschool and education at all. But I don't blame them, the transfers have been reduced, so local self-government doesn't have much money these years. That's one thing. The second thing, in that article where you prescribe the number of children in certain educational groups, we think that in some places you should reduce the total number of children, because it's not the same when you have 24 preschool children who attend preschool prep, or when you have 26, as you have prescribed. That's where we intervened with the amendment, too. We added the word - maximum, then a certain number. We think there should be 24 children in preschool preparation, as you predict for a four-year educational group, until school. You have different solutions here, and you're practically talking about the same age. What is, too, well, what this law introduces, is a pedagogical assistant. He's mentioned in the "kroat" law, but he's mentioned here in more detail. I don't have time, I'm just going to point out, for example, that there are certain projects that have been going on for several years, and you even have organizations that are associates with the Ministry of Education, which have faced the problem. In fact, pedagogical assistants are already used in certain cities. It is usually a preschool course, or preschool, with a teaching assistant. It's the children of Roma nationality. There is a problem with the payout, or vault. The ministry will have to describe this profession, deliver it to the Ministry of Finance to determine the code, so that in general the money from the Ministry of Finance can be translated for teaching assistants. But we will talk a lot more about this law when we talk about the details and the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35866	Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? If you don't, we'll move on to the hearing, and on the word returns. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled and uniform search, applied for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted the following parliamentary groups: the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group, the New Serbia MP Group, the G 17 Plus Group of MPs, the DSS Group of MPs, the ZES Group of MPs, the Progressive Group of Serbia and the SRS Parliamentary Group. We move to debate, and in order of the MPs and according to the application for a word. The first reported is MP Milisav Petronijevic, followed by Stojanka Petkovic. Several MPs have expressed a request for a change of order, so MP Zlata Djeric will later have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35867	Thank you very much. The Honorable Presidency, gentlemen of the Ministry, Mr Minister in absentia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, given that Mr. Minister at the beginning of the principle debate on the proposals of these three laws very detailedly explained each of them, and in terms of content and reason why certain contents are so predicted, given that in the debate that followed by the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, with very correct objections and suggestions, there was no, I am free to say, essential remarks, an objection that raises the essence of the proposed laws, given that Mr. Minister has given a reply to each specific question in the re-election, and that the representative of the SPS-JS Group has transferred the position of this parliamentary group, which provides support for the proposals of all three proposed laws, I will not be long kept to this. Given that my parliamentary group, the SPS-JS, and my party consider very important laws on preschool education and education and on student and student standards, I would just like to point out briefly a few general positions that need to be supported by the law. We are starting with that education is one of the most important strategic interests of each country. As a result, the education system established in this country also speaks about the seriousness and determination of the state in this regard. In the light of the fact that education and education is the most rewarding investment, because it is invested in people, if it takes into account that education and education is older than any government, each party, the first support that should follow the proposals of these two laws stems from a common line, that all that has been done before is well, achieved, and adds what is more modern, new, and better, and thus confirms, to say the point of view that education and education are much older than one government. The second thing I want to say here is that, in the context of this first thing I was talking about, the activity of preschool education and education was regulated by the Law on Social Care for Children. The adoption of the Law on the Fundamentals of Education and Education establishes a single system of the basics of education and education. By passing a law on the agenda today – on preschool education and education, we are rounding this system into a system that has a unique basis for education and education, which includes preschool education and education, primary and secondary education. That is, about, another reason why it should absolutely be supported. Thirdly, since we have already said that this was once regulated by the Law on Social Care for Children, neither this law, by its name, nor by putting first the work of education and education, has deviated from the fact that this is also a social concern for children. It's not called that, but, basically, it is. It is a basic, priority activity of pre-school education and education just education and education, but this activity involves other activities, above all, child care, nutrition, preventive health care, social protection, etc., although in pre-school education and education we have, in a way, three circles. The first round – the one that clears up, there's the rest of the activity and dominates in some way, when it comes to the care of the child. The third reason why it should be supported remains this activity – social care for children. It now takes place as a multi-functional, regardless of education and education having priority, taking into account these activities that take place in pre-school institutions. The fourth reason is that in the definition, in establishing the basis of this law, for the activity of preschool education and education, it is very clear that it is of direct general interest because it serves to meet the needs of children and families. So, one of the highest demands, which is why we need to give full support to the proposed law. It is already very detailed that it is being carried out in preschool institutions, about the way they are founded, everyone can, in general, say, establish a preschool institution, those who respect appropriate legal standards, therefore, and a private and legal person and, of course, states and provinces and units of local self-government, etc. I'm not going to hold on to this meeting, I just want to agree with my colleague, who spoke before me, that the two goals that stand are to include children, to create conditions for every child to be covered, and to create conditions, for which this bill provides, for education in pre-school institutions to be the most qualitative, to be a greater number of objects and a better material position for people who directly do that work. I'd only stay for two questions for a while. The Educational Work Programme stems from the basis of pre-school education and training provided by the National Educational Council, by agreement on a single system of education and education. Pre-school institutions adopt their programmes, within a pre-school institution, according to which they perform pre-school-school work. I'm not gonna stick with having those regular programs. I just want to point out for one detail when it comes to special programs, without intending to list everyone who's listed here. I will remain on one issue, when it comes to specialized programmes, which is the achievement of cultural and recreational activities, i.e. children's vacations. I think that part of the work should be given a lot of attention. This is what I've been saying in my experience, for many years I've been in charge of an institution called the Centre of Children's resorts of the city of Belgrade, so I've been dealing with these issues. Over a million children, or people, have passed through the facilities of that center. It was also in that previous law, the Law of Social Care for Children, had its place. When you look at the Law on Social Care for Children, it's completely cleaned up, there's only one piece left that talks about the rest and recreation of children up to 15 years of age. This is what I am saying in the context of the proposal for this second law, which speaks of rest and recreation as a special part of the work for high school students, i.e. students. I ask you to pay attention to that area, because it has passed over time to tourism, not to what is needed, which makes sense, for which there is a need, which is why it should exist. It's simple, and the founding fathers are a little out of hand. I am taking the opportunity to call on Belgrade, as the founder of one of the most representative institutions of this kind, to pay much more responsibility and more seriously, respecting these needs that I spoke of earlier, as well as economic assumptions, attention to one such institution. It is not an important issue to organise the rest and recreation of children, which includes both nutrition, education, education, and education, and health care, etc. I'll finish, when it comes to this law, with two support. One is when it comes to funding this activity, supporting the part that says the parent will pay 20% of the economic price. We're giving strong support to that. We all know that this implies creating conditions that there is enough room in such institutions of the Republic, the province or local self-government to make it available to children, so that they can use it. Also, full support and, knowing you, Mr. Minister, expectations that you will insist on introducing a more even minimum in the government, which will mean approximately the same level of material income for all in the Republic of Serbia. Given that I have delayed, just for a little while to support the law on student and student standards, because it is a very important issue again from our corner, because it is a support for secondary and higher education, an additional provision for the availability of education and education to every child, student, student. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35868	Thirteen minutes and 20 seconds of MP time have been used. The word has a folk MP Stojanka Petkovic, after her, MP Djordje Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35869	I come from the largest children's institution in Kosovo and Metohija, from the Children's School of Lane, Zvecan, and I feel obliged to talk today about the law on preschool education and education. The reasons for the adoption of this law are changes in society during the application of the Law on Social Care for Children, i.e. the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, both on the economic and on the social and political agenda, as well as the adoption of a new law on the basis of the education and education systems. These changes require the adjustment of the pre-school education and education system in the Republic of Serbia in accordance with the new circumstances and new conditions of work, with the aim of bringing the pre-school education and education systems in the Republic of Serbia closer and in line with the pre-school education system of the EU and the modern world. Until the adoption of the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, the work of pre-school education and education was arranged under the system of social care for children, the Law on Social Care for children. The activity of children's institutions, according to the Law on Social Care for Children, was arranged so that pre-school education and education was in the responsibility of three ministries, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health, which made it difficult to achieve its work. During the application of the law, circumstances, conditions and requirements for the right to preschool education and education changed. The adoption of the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System has led to a normative unification of the work of pre-school institutions in the context of the work of education, thus ensuring greater efficiency and improvement of the work of pre-school institutions, as well as the improvement of the rights of children guaranteed by the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, whose signature is our country. On the day of the entry into force of the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, the work of pre-school education and education system becomes part of the education and education system, and for the first time this law is governed by the unique basics of the pre-school education and education system, namely: general principles and objectives of the education and education system, standards and the right to education and education, National Educational Council, Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education, Institute for the Valuation of Quality of Education and Education, network of institutions, conditions for the establishment, start-up and exercise of the work of the institution, status change, labour bans, conditions for the selection of directors of pre-school institutions, conditions for admission to work and work permits, i.e. the license of educators and professional associates. What are the individual solutions in this law? Article 2 of the Law, the work of preschool education and education is defined as a work of direct social interest, which meets the needs of children and families. The work of education and education is achieved as the education and education of preschool children, from six months to the start of primary school. The educational and educational activity of the pre-school institution is priority over other activities carried out in pre-school institutions, and all other activities are in the function of achieving the work of education and education. Article 3 of the Law defines the remaining activities of a pre-school institution which are in the role of achieving education and education, which provide for nutrition, care, prevention and social protection of pre-school children. The work of a pre-school institution is defined as a multi-functional one, with an emphasis on the process of education and education as the primary activity of a pre-school institution. Any form of discrimination, abuse, neglect, etc. shall be prohibited in the achievement of the activities of education and education and other activities in the institution. It is prescribed that the priority for enrolment in preschool institutions has children from sensitive groups. For example, children with developmental disturbances, children from foster families, children from socially economically endangered environments and children of employed parents, closer to being arranged by a sublegal act, brought by the minister. Children with developmental disorders exercise the right to pre-school education and education in the educational group, along with an individual educational and educational plan, and in a development group based on an individual educational plan. The number of children in the educational group enrolled in one child with developmental disorders is reduced by three children compared to the number of children established by this law. Also, a child with developmental disorders is expected to be included in the educational or development group at the time of enrolment or during preschool. Based on the proposal of a pedagogical college and an expert team for inclusive education, a child with development disorders can be transferred from development to educational group, in accordance with the law. A foreign citizen and a child without citizenship, a exiled or displaced person is enrolled in a preschool institution, i.e. a school that implements a preparatory preschool programme under the same conditions and in a manner prescribed for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The parent of a foreign citizen's child will pay the economic price per child, and the parent of a child without citizenship, exiled or displaced person pays the price per child established by the founder, in accordance with a law governing the financial support of the family with children. Article 5 of the Law provides for the use of language, both for children for whom educational work is done in Serbian and for children members of national minorities, who provide for the achievement of educational work in the mother tongue, bilingually or in the Serbian language, if at least 50% of parents or children's parents are defined for it. Data is possible for a part of the program or program in general to be realized in a foreign language. It is also prescribed to keep and keep records in preschool, as well as to issue public documents on attending a preschool preschool programme, which became mandatory from school 2006/2007. A year. Furthermore, the establishment of preschool institutions has been regulated. Pre-school institutions may establish republics, autonomous province and units of local self-government, other legal or natural person or foreign state, foreign legal or natural person. The local self-government unit shall establish a pre-school institution, in accordance with the pre-school system act, for at least five and for a maximum of 100 educational groups. A second legal or natural person may establish a preschool institution and carry out the work of preschool education and education in accordance with the law. A foreign country, a foreign legal or natural person may establish a pre-school institution if it meets the requirements laid down by law and obtains the approval of the Ministry of Education. An instrument issued by a foreign country, a foreign legal or natural person, shall be recognised and equated with public documents obtained in the Republic in respect of the right to continue education and training. Pre-school education and education shall be achieved in accordance with the basics of the pre-school education and education programme adopted by the National Educational Council. The preschool institution performs educational and educational work based on preschool programme. The pre-school programme shall be adopted in accordance with the basics of the pre-school education and education programme and shall contain general information on the establishment and its environment, objectives, type and duration of the educational work programme, other forms of work and services, forms of co-operation with the family and local community, how the principles and objectives of education and education are achieved and how to monitor and evaluate the work of the pre-school institution. The pre-school programme also develops a way of individualising access to educational education, to provide additional support to children, especially children with developmental disorders, children on hospital treatment, children from socio-economic or other reasons of vulnerable environments, which respect the development, educational, health and socio-cultural needs of children. It is prescribed that, in order to improve the workings of pre-school education and education and to increase the coverage of children under pre-school programmes, in addition to regular educational work programmes, throughout the day and half, special and specialised programmes shall be implemented. Also, the newspaper in this law is to organise for children in hospital treatment a preschool programme in appropriate health institutions. Exceptionally, for children who are unable to attend preschool for pain or other justified reasons, the preschool institution organises the achievement of a preschool preschool programme in the family, with the possibility that this programme will last less than nine months. What's a preschool prep program? The preschool preparation programme has been established as a special part of the preschool programme. The aim of the preparatory preschool programme is to provide children with the conditions for knowledge and skills and experience needed for further knowledge, for education and education in the year preceding school. In this regard, it is prescribed that educators implement a preschool preschool programme, which is a newspaper compared to the current legal solution. In view of previous experience in the work of preparatory educational groups in preschools and schools, the preparatory preschool programme is prescribed to be implemented in preschool, and extremely in school, in accordance with the law. Art. The 27th and 28th laws stipulate that the pre-school education and education programme is implemented throughout the day – from 9 to 12 hours a day, in the half-day period, the pre-school prep programme – four hours a day, for a half-day period – up to six hours a day, for up to six hours a day, for up to three times a week, and for a longer period of 24 hours. Provisions of Art. The 30th to 35th Laws are organized by the organization of work with children, educational groups, both in preschool, or in preschool school, and for children on hospital treatment and children with developmental disorders. It is prescribed that the number and structure of the educational groups shall be determined by the Director, on the basis of a proposal from the expert body, on the basis of the number of children, working conditions, the programme to be implemented and the criteria for the establishment of educational groups, which shall be governed by the statutes of the pre-school institution, i.e. the school implementing the pre-school programme. Starting with the primary activity of the preschool institution, Art. 36 to 46. The bill provides for the tasks and level of education of persons who carry out the work of pre-school education and education, educators and professional associates, as well as persons who carry out their work in the function of achieving educational and educational activities by providing care, nutrition, preventive health and social protection, i.e. those whose jobs are related to the achievement of other activities of the pre-school institution, i.e. associates. What is interesting for the employees of these institutions is that the transitional provisions stipulate that employees of pre-school staff who at the time of their working relationship in pre-school institutions met the conditions of type and degree of training may continue to carry out pre-school work. Data is the possibility that educational work in pre-school institutions can also be performed by persons who were not in a working relationship with a pre-school institution on the day of entry into force of this law, if they have more than 20 years of working experience in educational work in pre-school institutions. In addition to the numerous advantages and positive aspects of this bill, there are certain shortcomings and failures. The scarcity of this bill is highlighted in Article 5(2). The controversial provision says that for members of national minorities, work is done in the native language, and can be bilingually or in Serbian, if at least 50% of parents, or children's guardians, are defined. As logically, the question arises – what happens if 50 or more percent of parents or guardians declare that they do not want the work to take place in the language of the national minority? As a major problem, there is an application of this law in Kosovo and Metohija, and this is a question for Mr. Minister. One of these problematic provisions is the provision of Article 9(3) of this proposal, where it is said that the consent to establish a preschool institution with a smaller or higher number of educational groups than the number provided for in Article 1 requires the consent of the competent authority of the Autonomous Province. Who's in charge when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija? What hasn't been changed by a new law, and I think it should have, is funding, which remains the same, i.e.. No changes. A law establishing a system of education and education, as a major problem in practice, shows a lack of mechanism that would force units of local self-government in Kosovo and Metohija to fund pre-school institutions. This is what I say when it comes to material assets, or even when it comes to taxes and contributions to personal incomes, which have been transferred by budget to local self-government, but local self-governments very often use our resources for their own needs and then, in some ways, do criminal acts towards us, so children's institutions have been denied for a very large part of the material assets and thus cannot function normally. When it comes to competitions for the selection of directors, for the reception of employees in pre-school and management bodies, the bill does not provide for a different solution to what is provided for by the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. Finally, I would like to say that the G17 Plus Party will support this law, because its implementation does not require additional budgetary resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35870	It was used 15 minutes and 15 seconds from the time of the Parliament's group. By accident and error, along with an apology, the word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić-Markovic, and after it, MP Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35871	Madam Chairman, I didn't think you made a mistake on purpose. I have to say at first I'm sorry when a package of laws like this is made that we as MPs need to talk about, and it's mostly important laws, and then it takes a short time to figure out how quickly you're going to tell or talk about one thing. On this occasion, I decided to talk only about one of these laws, about one relating to preschool education and education. I think I should only comment on a few things before I start speaking specifically about the law, which is that in the last 50 years of the 20th century preschool, at least when it comes to his status, he hasn't had much luck. For a long time, it was part of the social care of children, so the authorities over it had three ministries – for social issues, for health and for education. It's always very complicated because I still think things like that can't bring a promotion to work, but just the other way around, it stops normal work. The 2001 initiative raised the issue of preschool status and place in a single education and education system and, thank God, in 2003, it finally found its status, became part of a single education and education system. He had jurisdiction over him exclusively by the minister of education, which is a good thing, and what's very important, the whole system of education could have worked more efficiently and better, and this preschool subsystem could have been improved because it works more efficiently and better. It is also important that at that point she could finally pay attention to the rights of children and that this situation really improves, because we as a country were signatories to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Now a few things about the law. The law is good in many things, but there are things that are problematic and that we, the DSS MPs, have tried to fix with amendments. We'll see what's accepted and what's not accepted, and then we'll continue to comment when it's spoken in detail. I'll start with Article 2, where preschool education is defined as a work of direct social interest, which is great, but if you look at a little better law, if you analyze it a little better, you see how the state looks at these things. When I say state, read – the government of Mirko Cvetkovic. If we start to comment on just one thing, that first thing should be the size of a group. The bill says that a group of three to five should have 24 children, which is a fairly large number, and we can really comment on how much individual approach is possible, how much adequate support can be given to a child at the time when he needs all the other methods that come out of letting him play the tape, because you have to bear in mind that there are educators who have 36 children in groups, so they have to resort to other things to save them physically. So this number of 24 is big, but you don't fit on it, you say in the program that a group of children in preschool will make up 26 children. That's an even bigger number. I don't understand why you increased it compared to 24. I couldn't follow the logic by which this child systematization was created. On the other hand, in an informal conversation, when the representatives of the ministry came to the Parliamentary Group, it was said – well, you know why we had to do this, there is no money. I am a man of education, it is clear to me that for education in this country, mostly, there is no money, but, on the other hand, I notice and I have to notice, as trade unions and citizens of Serbia also notice that, of course, there is no money in that ministry. As you know, from December to February, the minister was at large world meetings relating to education: in December in China, in January in London, in February he was in Paris, "Facebook" in the course, it is very important for our country, and in February he was in Cuba, "Universal for Better Life", which is also a very important topic, so that preschool groups should continue to have 26, 29, 30 etc. children. The profession says one thing, it's quite clear; I'm glad that there are a lot of people sitting here who are from the profession and they say it's a large number, that with such a large number of children you can't adequately work in a group. If these countries are children, and they should be and have children to be a priority, then we have to follow the advice of the profession and we have to find the means to get in this particular section, in preschool education, put the matter on our feet, to establish order, so that later on, in primary school, we can say that we have an adequate class, with the number of children who don't cross 30, as advised by this famous expert Simon Grey of the World Bank, without a shred of pedagogical knowledge, without a shred of psychological knowledge, without a shred of experience, but he knows that the economy is the only criterion in education, so he tells us that we should have 36 children in schools and 11. Thousands of teachers are too much for us in this country. So, I advise both the minister and his team, please, listen to the profession to establish order in preschool education and education. You won't regret it. It's a long-term investment. Personally, I expect you to stand in that direction, because no one will understand education unless their leaders understand it. Another thing I could comment on. You say, "The work of preschool education is done in preschool institutions or, exceptionally, at school." We are coming up with a famous theme – the preschool network. It's a wide subject. In a few words, it's not adequately deployed, because we always have a problem where children are most needed, it's villages, suburbs, there's no preschool facilities, there's everything going on somewhere else, moved from a preschool facility, and in big cities we have a problem that we always have more children. Thank God, it's not a problem, but the problem is that they can't be covered by preschool, so the problem is a very small number of institutions compared to the number of children who should attend them. That's why I like that you've offered other models in the law, just because such models exist and are used in the world, like, traveling kindergarten. It's not necessary that it only happens in preschool and it's not necessary that it only happens at school. You've offered in law a solution for children who are in hospitals. And it's an adequately equipped space and it's perfectly fine to find it in the law as an appropriate space. All that is legally defined space, adequately equipped, is possible to use purpose. Furthermore, I like the law, as well as the roof law, ultimately prohibits any kind of discrimination, abuse and neglect of children. It is something that is necessary and should be highlighted in every law, but what I always criticise is that everything remains at the level of the declarative, therefore, superficial. I haven't read in any law that neglect of discrimination and everything else is allowed, but it's not enough to write "not allowed". I would simply like to see the measures that follow, so that there will be no discrimination in our kindergartens and in our preschools. It is a very bad solution that you have offered in the proposal, and it says this: "The closer the conditions and the way in which the other activities of preschool institutions are achieved are prescribed by the agreed resolution ministers". Here, first of all, it's about nutrition and the like, and it's about the Minister of Health and the Minister of Education. What, then, were you abandoning that wonderful concept where three ministers decided on a simple matter? It's simple, because it's not functional, it's not efficient, it's complicated. Let's simplify things so we can leave that concept here. It's impossible that the health minister doesn't have an expert team to say what children need to eat, how many calories, how many vitamins or something like that. It's strictly the work of the Minister of Health. There's no need for a minister of education, I'm not even sure you're doing him a favor if you just point it out here. What is really nonsense, one of the biggest laws the law offers, is a proposal for a solution for preschool institutions to function with 100 educational groups. I know why you're saying this, because there are such preschools in several major cities, which have up to 13,000 children and, say, 500 to 700 educators and employees. It's really a hangover facility. There's no adequate work here. You can't coordinate there, there's no access, there's no modern standards, there's no high and modern methods, there's work to be done by just melting away and by trying to preserve the naked lives of children. I'd like to comment on one more thing, which is that when we comment on the coverage of children, we talk with a little more pride than the situation we're in. We are one of the worst countries in Europe, a country that has the lowest participation of children in preschool education and education, aged three to five years. It was only about 2006-2007 that the state began systematically to prescribe measures to make that coverage bigger, and there we have one major shift, from 35% to 40%, when that age is three to five years old, but we haven't gone too far. The state must continue to prescribe these measures and to implement them, in order to achieve the goal, which is to ensure that all our children are covered by preschool education and education. When we comment on the introduction of a preschool preschool programme, which is a major shift and a good thing, we have to say that it was three years ago and that since then three generations of children, about 220,000 young people, have passed this program. It's a coverage of about 96%. That's great, but what about those 4%? In these 4% are mostly children whose program is necessary. They needed the program, and they did not have the opportunity to reach it. On the other hand, of these 96%, 60% of the young people were on that minimum programme that the state prescribed for them and, again, those 60% on that minimum programme were children from some sensitive groups, who and how important it was to help them reach a programme that would last nine months. Let's get a story about the children of the Roma population. Only 45% of them were covered by this program. It's very important for us to be covered 100%. That's what this ministry is supposed to do, with the help of us MPs who understand the subject and we want to get involved in this, to pay attention to it in the coming years. I didn't understand, it's possible that the minister didn't say so, I'd like to comment on it, this law took care of the real situation of all the employees in preschool institutions, some of them pointed out in special parts, some of the transitional provisions just mentioned. I think it would be ideal for all of them to find their place in that legal act. We should comment on one thing that the minister has defined this way – that the future sublegal act will arrange for all employees in preschool institutions, in the same degree of school preparation, personal income to be at the same level. That's okay, because people shouldn't be punished because they live in some underdeveloped municipalities, compared to their colleagues from developed municipalities, but then there remains an open question -- how are local self-governments going to escort them, does this mean that at a republican level, funds will be found to pay out the salaries of employees in this degree of education? It's something we need to talk about. The law by itself is not bad, we have made amendments, we expect some of these amendments to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35872	Fourteen minutes has been used since the Parliament's group time. The People's Messenger Djordje Milicevic, after him, has the People's Messenger Milet Poscuric. I'm just asking you to sign up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35873	At the very beginning of my presentation, I would like to express my satisfaction with the representatives of the Ministry of Education, which is here as Minister of Education and Education, which today we have a stable educational system in Serbia, which you have continued with successful reforms when it comes to education and as representatives of the Ministry of Education and Education in all possible ways you support young people to acquire new knowledge. I would like to express my satisfaction that this government of the Republic of Serbia has a minister of education who deals with its work, therefore, a work that is specifically related to education and education, not to some other issues that have nothing to do with the relevant ministry. As for the concrete legislative proposals on today's agenda, which we are discussing today, I would like to say that we have three extremely high-quality legislative proposals and, as has already been said, the Socialist Party of Serbia-United Serbia Group will support them in the day to vote. Proposal for a law on student and student standards. It is clear that the existing law, which was passed in 1992, has been overcome in every respect and that it needs to be brought into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In addition to the constitutional obligation, the reason for the law being passed, among other things, lies in the necessity of harmonising the law with life reality, with practice itself, with what is happening today, in order to eliminate all the many problems faced by employees in this area, but also users of services, above all, I think of students and students. We are convinced that by adopting all those sublegal acts, which we have heard, in preparation and necessary adoption, the formal application of this law will begin in May, when, among other things, competitions are announced for the admission of students and students into their homes. We are convinced that by adopting this legislative proposal, by adopting sublegal acts that are under preparation, we will have a comprehensive regulation of this area. We would also like to express our satisfaction that all those to whom this law specifically applies took part in the drafting of this legislative proposal. I also think of students, students, representatives of student centres and unions, as well as representatives of dormitories. It is already said, there are, as far as I understand, about 70 institutions of student and student standards in Serbia. The accommodation in the homes is provided for about 19,000 students, 11,000 high school students, the cafeteria feeds 30,000 students, about 10,000 more than they live in homes, and that speaks of social opportunities, unfortunately, today. What is extremely important is the fact that this law will allow for the student price of food and budget students living in a place of residence. It's clear, there's not enough money, and we need as much quality as possible and as much better law as possible. As representatives of the left party, the party that advocates social justice, for the system of equal chances for all, we also have a reason more to support this legislative proposal that will give all students equal conditions for continuing schooling, regardless of their social status. So children without parental ageing, representatives of the Roma population, people with special needs, will be able to apply for scholarships, loans, nutrition, housing in homes. The basic condition for the competition of other students and students, it is said, is budgetary status and they will pay the so-called regressed price. We also agree with the legal solution that homes can build both legal and physical persons, which is a realistic opportunity to reach new capacities when it comes to housing. Very short, when it comes to the draft law on preschool education and education, a legislative proposal which, among other things, had a strange history, given that it has been done by more ministries since 2001. It is clear that by adopting it for the first time in a comprehensive way, an area of preschool institutions in Serbia will be arranged. It is also important that public debates, round tables, and in Belgrade, and in Nis, and in Novi Sad, and other major cities in Serbia were organised during the drafting of this law, and we believe that this should be a practice when drawing up all the important legislative proposals we are discussing in this Parliament. You know the principle, I'll cut it short, I know that time is running out, which the minister pointed out - one municipality - one preschool institution, but it is quite clear that the number of objects at this point is unfortunately insufficient and we want to believe that, at the moment we are discussing an extremely important legislative proposal, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has this fact in mind. At the very end, it is true that this law does not contain provisions on the financing of employees in pre-school institutions, but we would like to welcome another intention of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to establish the lower limit of income for the same training, regardless of the economic strength of local self-government. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35874	Five minutes and 30 seconds of MP time were used. The word has been given by MP Milet Poscurica, after him, MP Jovan Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35875	Ladies and gentlemen, a few sentences only on the first legislative proposal, on preschool education and education. I really didn't understand how long the preparatory phase lasted, seven years, six years, until this law was in the process. Today, we were reminded of their ideas and again in the material with some of their demands, the representatives of the Independent Union of Preschool Education and Education of Serbia, who were expecting changes that they allegedly had already presented to the Ministry, the minister himself, who visited them, are grateful for that, the only minister who visited the preschool facility, but also his associates. They've given it to other parliamentary groups, we haven't been given anything exclusive, that material, and they're going to send it back to the Ministry, so I expect us to consider on the Committee some of the, I think, too many proposals that the union, as a reference institution, probably even an equal partner in this so-called public debate, if that still works as some of the rest of the former. That probably didn't go away either, so they watched what was in the law and what they had given. This is an opportunity for the Committee, and I think that in the Committee I attended, there was a hint that interventions on laws, amendments would be considered. Some refer to the level of wages, which are indeed different, and the law provides for the founder to decide on the height of the salary. Since local self-government, in most cases, does so by different coefficients, different methods of measuring the efficiency of these services at the level of the locals, then wages are also very heterogeneous. We don't think it should be one plane, which is the same for everyone; it's impossible, because it's not the same volume of work, nor are the same working conditions. There is often an obvious discrepancy between what is spatially given and what is pedagogically necessary for working in groups, so the law provides for defining the size of numbers in individual interest groups to which services will be provided, with a limit of 20% above or below. They've got some suggestions on that, too. I think we're going to articulate it all together, because, as the ministry said tomorrow, as union representatives said, they're going to get a new college with what we have, because, as they claim, they've already got it in the ministry, but they haven't answered. To what I'd like to pay more attention to, it's a student and student standard. In the beginning, let's start with Article 2, where it really sounds nice that these are additional conditions for more accessible, efficient and quality education. Indeed, these are auxiliary conditions, it is an additive, it is a spice to what is basic, and that is to school a good and quality fit. The question is, how long are we going to make it through this without entering, from institutional levels, into the required reform of education? The law on higher education and scientific research is already under way, according to the next point. Are we going to make it to the end, and is all of this just going to be the necessary level of change, to really be happy one day, to get more educated people, to get a higher percentage of higher education, and to make it less expensive for individuals? The very fresh statements say that today the ratio of state-funded master's studies, nine-tenths, come on, Ministry and once again state-states, one-tenth, and what students themselves, their parents, single out of their pockets – 1:2. We of the SNS are not the ones who are unconditionally glorificing Bologna, someone who has never said that the effects of the Bologna method of education should be examined afterwards. We have never claimed, contrary to those who glorificate Bologna, that only the degree of passing is a measure of quality. We are facing a serious problem that if someone who has not been lucky to choose studies that are integrated, academic studies, such as medical sciences, goes to technical studies, and there is already an 8.5 average limit there to get into the master, he must pay for his own education, which is about three or more thousand euros. It's very expensive, aside from the fact that we have no evidence of how much in the personnel profile in this country is needed. It's a huge obligation, not only to the Ministry of Education and Education, but also to science, the National Employment Service. It's a big national project, which should once come out with an assumption that it won't give full autonomy to universities to decide how much they're going to enroll, and then at a university conference, I was good 120 million, you're 86, you're 16, you're that big. What does that mean? Does this mean the message of those who decided in 2000 to be different in Serbia that they had escaped from the necessary system of free schooling, free treatment, in the almost mandatory payment of high tariffs for so-called so-called. Reformed education? In doing so, the one who teaches the fourth and fifth year of master studies has no, say, machine, electrically, all those items that the one who ends up in the old program had. They have a few reduced objects. Many professors hand each other over. Once, according to the old schooling system, some of the items held two semesters or one semester, now three objects were joined together in one semester, for those at the level of the bechelor, to finish, to have information about it. Did we get a better student? Is it possible that you should keep some plains, some sort of external manifesto of the Bologna Declaration? The very declaration, three pages, doesn't speak at all of these absurd details that autonomous school has reached. How long has it been autonomous? Then more intelligence shows the Ministry when it appoints a student dormitory director or centre than when it sets up a dean and rector. Really, is there any more end to the autonomy of this species? Autonomy goes so far that some professors are obliged to make an exact statement, completely, of their lectures on the site. You direct students to participate in lectures, if they say what is taxed there, and you can't go into the depths of their knowledge. A sense of study, study approach, study casually, and master casually, responsibly, pedantically, and to detail what is necessary to master matter. It all ends quickly, with tests hung on the site, often along with answers. I'm saying that what we're doing, what we're proposing to improve the price of their accommodation, the cost of eating, the chances of going to recovery, to recreation, to play sports, that's all, nothing's new. That might be a little bit more orderly now. Now we're caught up in modern tendencies to make an inclusive relationship with those with special needs, and that's perfectly normal, humane, understandable. You don't need to mark people or put them in a special position. That's what they'll take care of, at least in high school youth facilities. We don't have that law, we haven't brought a new one yet. It will be particularly pronounced, it will be a pedagogical, psychologist, etc. It works, when the law is read, that every institution has to have it, but then, when we're working this out, we'll see if, in a technical sense, we can change it, that our efforts to make this important, to make it easier for poor unhappy citizens and for those children who often don't have any shoes or equipment, if they find a place in the home. There's a possibility, and none of us are against it, that it goes to private sectors, that the physical person does something analog to the dormitory. This, since it will not be financed by the ministry, will be on the market and probably the one who does so will be able to say – if it is a 200-euro apartment in Belgrade now, the most ordinary student Garsonier, the worst rank, I may be a competitor with 100, so that his child learns there. Standards should be set, everything the minister provides, conditions, standards, normative; perhaps those who are just opening such institutions should be prescribed normative, but we cannot, the ministry or we, cannot affect how they will standardise their prices. Speaking of which, I'm not coming back later, it can be in collegiate, that the Ministry has an obligation that when, I don't know which defined receptor, it feels like there are no institutions in some university environment of the type that are proposed here, student or high school standard, it's necessary to calm down what is basic, which is a diet, it can contract with someone who will provide services of that kind. Do we have the right not to suspect that the minister may not recognize, have a built sense of that need in some environment, in which a powerful privateer, a tycoon, will appear, that instead of the State, instead of the Ministry, he will create some kind of institution. This will raise the price to the mandatory level, which the student will have to pay, because the state, I didn't understand, but it won't subsidize schooling with such ones, and if it will, then it's another question, to what extent and who might be able to take it all into consideration and whether it can go on forever. Of course, the private sector initiative must also exist to be well controlled, not to be competitive with overpriced landladys at the level of acceptable differences in price. I expect, since the law is not detailed, that instructions, proposals by the minister and the ministry, more ministers, that anyone interested, be introduced for the first time, to prevent the risk of bringing it into something we've never seen, something we haven't succeeded in. There's also the right of a student to eat. I join those who thought it was not a bad right to spread it to everyone who has evidence of social status, even if they were residents of a city where they study, to get the right to a meal, to get rid of it by some act of the institution. It wouldn't be any sin. There are more and more hungry children, talented, who can learn, who can achieve something. When it comes to the use of the right to student credit, along with the student scholarship, it sounds like it sounds like a need for someone who is already taking the city scholarship, to double it in the municipality, to local self-government, and to take it there, because through local self-government they set the criteria, but no one knows and never has the means to finance everything. The feedback mechanism and the checks must be clear, because the penalties that are provided for are very rigid, so whoever makes a mistake takes two places... Now, I'm going backwards again. Will local self-government be able to stimulate an architect, an engineer, by threatening to lose what the state gives him? He'll have to determine. Then it forces the local self-government to come out with a much higher amount, to go above the average established price of accommodation, food, increased by 20%, according to the law, so that the level of student credit will be nomenclatured at that level. If it stays, then the student will know it has to be defined, and local self-government will have a cleaner situation. If he wants to tie someone up with his funding, then he'll have to give him more than college, but the student won't, because today it's a rule, that kids take, especially where they have political ties, and under these political ties they can do a lot for their parents, and that's unfortunately the truth in Serbia, that's how it works. That's what we know now, but we don't want to go into details, not to call anyone. Right to cultural and artistic and sports-recreative activities. Look, we're in a paradoxal situation right now. We were the organizers of the Yugoslavia Olympics, and in Serbia the colleges did not have, i.e. The subject of "fiscultura", "physical education", was abolished, what was it called. Student sports games were organized by colleges, through sponsorship. Now, being a dean means being a manager. It's no longer dedicated to the educational process, or if it is, it's dedicated to the innovation chase system, who's going to come up with more new objects, new obligations, who's going to de-enact the 24-hour study of students, in which he's going to finish his duties at nine o'clock, because Bologna makes them be small groups, and when he accredited college, he's accredited 300, and he can't do 300, he can't do more than 100 in the group. Then, three shifts, as a factory, cost students, like in high school, call. The meaning of that schooling that we all participated in, lived through, learned what it meant to study. It had its beauty and charms. This is a grill that children are getting harder and harder to take for exams, etc. It occasionally seems to wander away from the topic, criticising the Bologna way of schooling. I know I'm not the only one in this, but maybe there's not enough power left to force the state to see what it has to keep out of the world, to remain worthy of itself, and to make it easier for its needs and for its students to revise those children, but also for our teachers. And we give our lectures, two or three times incessantly in one day, in order to satisfy the need for a small group to hear them, to get a signature, and half of them to sleep. They can't take the kids. We forgot the time in which there should be no class this afternoon; at lunchtime in the cafeterias, amphitheaters and gyms were empty. Now that's gone, class is up to 22 o'clock in the evening. Who's going to organize and pay for that student schooling, that the kids are going to go to sports games, if that goes into the jurisdiction of dorms now? Will the Ministry give money, dorms? Irrelevant detail, maybe no one's gonna play that game, maybe it'll be local ground, handball playing each other. But we see regionally, they may go out of Serbia, but someone has to prepare them. Will colleges be participating? Then it's not even going to work for college anymore. He'll end his fiscultura, he won't finance physical education and education, maybe he'll move on to homes. Is that an obligation, is that necessary, how to understand Article 13? Of course, it'll only come to life. We'll see what it will do in life, in concrete practice, to show us. I just wanted one question, I don't get it, Article 1. I could've asked on the board, but then I didn't study the law, so now I'm asking. In Article 19, paragraph 2, under 1st and 2nd – home of pupils and student centre. When you read what's different, it says: work and rest. It's like a student can't rest in a dorm. A technical remark, perhaps quite benevolent. You don't even have to respect her. Clean, proof that when you sit down and read it a little bit more thoroughly, something is not clear because there are institutions that deal with resorts and vacations and recreation. I've noted something to myself here, that a student's home, or a student's center, can provide accommodation, nutrition for students and students. So the student center can receive students, or high school students who are in boarding school, for some of the services it can give them. That should probably be known in advance when capacity is planned. Founding – legal and physical face. I was already talking about it in the beginning, what a bad consequence it can have if an influential private who can wash money is infiltrated somewhere and do something so the Ministry doesn't go in with a program that will be cheaper in financial terms, the price of service, accommodation and nutrition, than the private person will give us, and yet, that insidiously, it will give us enough prices than those offered by the landlady to just spend the night in the garage, or to be a member of the family, or who knows what way it supports, no taxes, etc. We know how it works, but that's how it works in Serbia. The question is whether the Ministry will be able to create new facilities, because when we look at the funds that were scheduled last year, this year, it's here somewhere. There are no significant deviations, because those in Europe are making less and less efforts to give us money to make our own student standard. We've mostly used those funds before. How long will they be willing? You see, now the Yellow House is denied by some ministers. Anything's possible. Will we be willing to continue helping us to make a standard, when they were so intent on signing Bologna, under which now their members, who first introduced it, are already raising students and teachers in the fight against it. We can't stop it just like that and quickly, because it's easily reassembled, and many of them are responding because of something, but to examine it thoroughly, of course we can. The educational work program, it's something to a man who observes this congregation, and it's not very clear. If my kid's in high school, he's a high school kid, or he's in some art school, and he's living in a home, and he's gonna have an educator, and he's gonna have a pedagogal and psychologist, and my brother's kid who teaches the same thing, in the same department, and he's staying in his house, he's not gonna have it. So, families have become ineffective, they can't direct the development of a child, or it's one group lifestyle where that profile is needed and it's going to be an obligation for everyone. Then we need to know if it's 50, 100, 150, 1,000 or 1,500. If we went to homes and centres, maybe that clause when you had boards, more than a thousand and a half subscribers, maybe it would be a center, a home, because we don't see what a structural difference is, they offer the same level of service. What the Ministry will prescribe later, I don't know, but I'm afraid it can go very rigidly, because all our homes should be refurbished and renovated, a small number of rooms etc. Some local self-government in this business went further, before the law. Some, for God's sakes, are not and I don't believe that the minister can put out the requirements and set up a construction difference in the structure of the facility. Employees of boards, presidents, unions. I don't know why it wouldn't make sense to work the total number of employees. They have a better sensitivity to whom they're going to propose than unions. Someone on behalf of the union will be delegated, delegated terms and conditions for the work of scientific researchers, professors, but it's not the same. The appointment of the director. The way the fund's director, which we said was to overcome the seriousness of the appointment of a college director, a high school director or a university dean, or a university rector, is going to come down to one local level again, the political group will decide. Today we have the opportunity to be appointed directors of the interior in some health institutions of higher rank, public health institutions, staff from Belgrade, even though at the same time you have five or six teachers in the title, as well as the one appointed, who is paid an apartment, a road, paid for this or that. That's what it means when you've got double arches in how you're going to put the officials there, so now you're going to let the state appoint someone and set up a competition, it can also approve such a radical thing, run over the board's decision, and this whole level of three months easily passes. At this level of communication with the Ministry, i.e. with the Government, is lost and is eventually appointed director of a political group. This is done in a more serious way than the way we work. When we look at the structure of employees, warn me, I don't follow all the time, the educator, the psychologist, the pedagogical are the basics. Health care professionals are often mentioned. Health care professionals, I suppose, might be a level of middle profession, perhaps a doctor they can hire. This did not eat, would not mean the removal of the health institutions of the student standard we already know – school dispensers, student polyclinics, etc. I suppose that would remain, that this would be just something new that would be on the burden, I suppose, of the Ministry of Health or the Ministry of Education. If we introduce a thousand and a half subscribers, it's not a small number, they probably need it, I don't know what time, health care worker; it says - worker or associate. I'm not sure what he's referring to. Does a mini hospital, sometimes owned by kindergartens, dentists or occasionally by a guest? It's not defined here until the end. It says – if necessary. Approximately, he'll figure out what he'll look like and how long he'll lead. There's so much said about the Fund. I really wouldn't say it again. Some departmental sector used to do that. Now we're gonna get these people out of here. If it's from the same ministry, then the day-to-day, but if we hire new ones, their advisors, secretaries and other people to do the same job, then the question is how much we got, how much we respected the law that was passed a month or two ago -- about reducing the number of employees in public institutions of public importance, in the state and local administration. About, they're the necessary levels. It's not the law, what it might look like, something that's so bad, how much of the details we wanted to apostrophe as unspeakable, which can be interpreted differently in practice. If it's misread and someone's chance that doesn't belong to him, then the law itself loses its meaning, even though the idea and the support of students and talented children are always something we'll stand for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35876	It's been used since Parliament time for 23 minutes. There are two minutes left. The word has been issued by MP Jovan Nesovic, after him, MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35877	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, members of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs, in my presentation, I would like to refer to the law on student and student standards, as my colleague Stojanka Petkovic spoke about the first law, which I find very important. This law and, in general, the student and student standards should be seen as supporting the system of secondary and higher education. When we talk about the work of institutions for student and student standards, as well as the right of students and students, it can be regulated in two ways. One way is to regulate this matter within the framework of system laws, the Law on the Education and Education System or the Law on Higher Education. What's proposed here, which is a much better solution, is to pass a special law. After all, it is also a tradition in the state of Serbia. The student and student standards represent specificity. What should also be taken seriously into account in the application of this law is that there is complete correlation and co-operation between institutions dealing with secondary education, higher education institutions and institutions dealing with student and student standards. This old law was passed in 1992. Amendments and additions to the law were made in 1993. Then nothing was done by this law and it is normal that when you apply the law, you see what its shortcomings are. It seems to me that probably, in collaboration with all the relevant institutions to which this law will apply, the Ministry has tried to install into this law everything that has happened in the meantime. Meanwhile, there have been serious, major social changes in our country. Different strategies have been adopted, from which certain parts have been extracted and incorporated into this law. It was brought, after all, and the Constitution, so we had to bring this legal matter into line with the Constitution. It seems to me that a series of laws were passed where certain solutions had to be incorporated into this law, and it was done. In particular, it seems to me that the most significant thing is to agree with the Constitution. Article 173(4) The constitution has defined that institutions of student and student standards, besides the state, can establish an autonomous province, local self-government, and that is now in the law, and I think it's very important. What this law needs in its application to allow is the availability of secondary and higher education to a wide population of citizens, i.e. students and students, for a simple reason, that a network of educational and student standards should be deployed throughout the territory of the Serbian state. She needs to be quality. It is clear that if local self-government and autonomous province invest in this area, accessibility will also be wider. The second thing this law needs to speed up is to encourage the work of successful students and students. It's something that still happens in the Republic of Serbia today. The ministry, roughly, has 11,000 and some student loans of scholarships, over 23,000 student scholarships and loans. We can discuss at this point whether these student loans and student scholarships are sufficiently stimulating. It would be better if our country were richer and these scholarships and loans were bigger, but unfortunately, we have so much money at this point. What is important is that in the last few years, the Ministry has paid them regularly and that students, or students, can count on them. What is also important is that through the Republic Fund for the Development of Scientific and Artistic Youth, which is defined in this law, it will take particular account of the development of extremely talented students and students, and that is something that every country has to take care of, including our country. In this law it is explicitly defined that discrimination is prohibited, a permanent improvement of professional work has been defined. What I don't think so far has been, or has been less pronounced, is that it has been fully supervised. I think there was some problem with the Ministry in implementing the previous law. Now these problems have been tried to be located in an adequate way, to install norms with which these problems will be more easily eliminated. What I want to point out in particular is Chapter 3, where it is defined as being founded, being active and getting permission to work on a student and student standard institution. There's one thing that's been brought here, and I think it's very good, which is that they bring development plans and annual work programmes. I think it's something that's important, because without good planning, there's no development of a certain institution. If you put it, and the law says it's a mandatory norm, I expect the development of these institutions to be faster and more quality, with the resources that these institutions have. Chapter 4 defines that the management bodies of the institutions are management boards and directors, and in the home of students and student centres – this is also the pedagogical higher. The thing that is very important is that the director of these institutions will be elected in public competitions. I honestly expect that the competitions will be so implemented that the highest quality wins and be directors. The thing that we need to take care of is what kind of educational quality is now in the dormitories. I think he can raise himself to a higher level and there's a ministry task to invest in the education and education of these people. On the other hand, the ministry will have to take care of students' centres in the coming period. I don't think they can be chosen in such a way as to do jobs with students, to provide students with food, accommodation, hot water, but to be real managers in the coming period, which means that from limited resources, because in the state we have limited resources, they get to the maximum. I guess that's where it's gonna have to be taken care of. This morning, some colleagues spoke about the material side when scholarships were awarded and children were admitted to dormitories, student centres. I am absolutely certain that it is not the Ministry's fault, but especially the local self-government, which issues certain certificates that are related to the material condition. There is this abuse, and there must be a systemic solution, not to favour those who have greater material opportunities than those who have no material opportunities. It is something that is not the Ministry's fault, but it will have to be accounted for, because it really exists in the Serbian state today. The Republic Fund for the development of scientific and artistic rejuvenation is something that is the continuation of the foundation that has existed so far. What is good, as Minister Obradovic said, is that there will be three ministries – the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Science and Technology, which work together today, and the Ministry of Culture, because it is important that these ministries take care of artistic and scientific rejuvenation together. I don't think there's any reason why we're afraid that another law will be broken, and that's the law we've passed here, about limiting the number of government employees and local self-government, because people who are now doing the same work will continue to work; therefore, there will be no reception of new people, and I think it is important. What is not seen in the law, and with what the Ministry will have to deal with in the next period, are financial resources that are determined for the construction and reconstruction of buildings and for improving the quality of life and work of students in dormitories, i.e. students in dormitories and student centres. I'm absolutely certain that what we're currently setting out is some minimum. It is good that each year the amount of money allocated for these needs increases. It seems to me that this local self-government, especially at student homes, and the Ministry of Commons, must act, that the funds that single out local self-governments and the funds that the Ministry spends in an adequate way, because education is something that is most prospective, so what is invested multiplely, in the years that come behind it, is coming back. Finally, the positive effects of this law also apply to students, also to students, also to institutions of student or student standard themselves, refer to employees, because they will have to work on themselves, to be more educated and efficient, and I am absolutely sure that we will get better quality young generations, which will make a full contribution to the economy and to the economy, that is, the environment in which they live. Looking at all this that has been proposed by this law, G 17 plus will support this law in the voting day, and calls on other parliamentary groups to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35878	Thank you, Mr. Nesovic. The word is from the vice-president of the Assembly, Parliament MP Ms Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35879	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the first law that we, members of the task force, adopted during the discussion, with remarks made by our colleague Dr Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic and my smallness on some members, i.e. the point of this bill. Because of this, he did not pass unanimously on the task force, due to these remarks, remarks by his colleague, Milica Vojić-Markovic and his colleagues, Obradovic. We can say that this law is in technical terms, which our authorised representative, Mrs Radica Jocic, spoke of this morning, is well done, but we have fundamental objections and therefore we will not be able to vote for it, although it is the first in a series of six that we have to adopt, which concerns the areas of children's rights in Serbia. I'm going to do a little depression when it comes to this area. Many colleagues said during the debate in principle that the Law on Social Care for Children has been changed many times and that it comes from that communist real-socialist time. As a party that has existed on Serbia's political scene for 20 years, we insist that the rights that a child achieves by its birth, first of all, the constitutional right of every child to have a child's allowance, which is not the case in Serbia, and later on, the right to equality in education and education, must be equal, regardless of whether the child lives in the urban, rural environment, in any geographical part of our country's territory, and that the RS government, units of local self-government must pay much more attention to that. There were children's institutions between the two world wars, preschools. However, the first law that even treats this area in modern Serbia was passed ahead of World War II, and later, when the communists came to power, it says, too, the law on social care for children, and in fact, many children were socially released category and this negative score goes on to this day and day. And now we have a devastating situation. Although we came out of that decade two years ago, as declared by the UN -- the millennium struggles to reduce poverty between children and youth, we came out with negative data, which was announced by Minister Obradovic today -- that only 40% of the pre-school population in Serbia is settled, i.e. it has the possibility to attend pre-school institutions. I must remind you, you know very well, that is the map of the children's path adopted by the UN and the Strategy adopted by the previous government, whose successors you are from 2005, the Strategy for combating poverty and the Strategy for enabling normal conditions and equal opportunities for children to school, from pre-school to primary and further education, which they predicted to improve these negative indicators by 2015. But nothing has changed much more. In 2003, I have this official data, in 2003, at 2004, everything in Serbia was 1804 preschools. Something may have changed, but I don't think so. In Kragujevac, for the last 20 years, there are now expected to be no new children's institution, but there are also light examples in the village of Meta Hill. However, when a president of a municipality or a government acting in the coalition makes such a step, unlike this devastating data that is shown in this table in front of me, it is an official government document, such as in the municipality of Arandjelovac, then wait for what the people would say to the knife and make the whole of the haika and haranga against one man, as was the case with the previous president of the municipality of Dr. Radosav Svabić, the Serbian Radical, who in five years of his mandate, one and the other authorities, in the municipality of Arangelovac, and there we have extraordinary elections scheduled for April 25th, launched the initiative and two schools were created. One was built in the center of the city, within the school "Milos Obrenović", in the year of the city's jubilee, 150 years of Obrenovic's town, and another district in the village of Colonija, which is also necessary for young people in the municipality, and it is not open because on the day of pre-election silence, on the eve of those famous elections in the municipalities of Voždovac and Zemun, Dr Svabić was arrested, without any evidence that he had done anything, except doing good works for children in his municipality, such as these two kindergartens. I wanted to, Mr. Minister, look back at what is closely related to preschool education and education in Serbia, which many colleagues today did not talk about, and that is how poverty affects the degree of education of preschool children. We mentioned here today, some colleagues, a Roma population. It is with over 90% completely declared not only from pre-school, but, to the most extent, basic education, but these socially-exposed children are not only from the Roma population, but from the one who is extremely poor, so we have an amazing, worrying data, which is because of the catastrophic economic situation, because politics, where we have to invest every dinar, is tailored by the IMF, and not ourselves and so we came with new requirements and around a network of schools and other institutions for children. We have 54% of those who are unemployed, who belong to the most risky, or to the category of the poorest population in our country. Who's supposed to send kids from six months to school in kindergarten? Young people defend couples, those who get first or second children, if they're lucky, then third. But they also, according to official data, fall into an extremely poor population in our country in 22%. How, then, can we boast, or how will the government go before the citizens when it is a terriblely devastating situation? At the level of local self-government, by cities and municipalities in Serbia, from the moment the Law on Local Self-Government was passed and when jurisdiction for pre-school education was fully taken over by local authorities, as well as for education and health, i.e. primary health care, you have so many irresponsible people that, if the opposition, such as in Kragujevac, proposes to reduce travel costs, to reduce all those megalomanical budget expenditures that serve nothing but the promotion of parties in power, and to focus this on, that is, in pre-school education, you do not find any co-operation. It's a really big problem, and then you're facing this and that's what they've come out of the union of employees in preschool institutions, educators and others, who are rightfully rebelling that local self-government doesn't account enough about them, so there's a huge range between salaries employed in a public enterprise, say, "Parking service," and those who work in local self-government units. I'm going to end up having, on the other hand, as a state, which is to be commended for, and that's that educational capacity. I come from a town where, in the medical high school of Sisters Ninkovic, ever since that time of Shuvar, there's been a direction of nurse-teacher and that's something we have to insist on until the end, so there's no fear that someone's been afraid after 20 years of losing his job with that calling, because new times have come, so it takes masters and schools in Bologna. These are extremely good and qualified personnel, but until a network of pre-school institutions is distributed geographically so that children in underdeveloped environments have that possibility, there is no respect for the Convention on the Rights of Children. In this year, when we mark the 20 years of the Convention on the Rights of Children, we are just breaking it, not giving our children the opportunity to have equal access to preschool education and education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35880	The word has a People's MP, Mr. Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35881	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that after yesterday's ceremony, after the adoption of the Law on the National Assembly, today was indeed a pleasure to be a National MP and I believe that citizens enjoyed one very polite debate of all MPs who took part in the debate on such important laws. The SPO, like the right-hand side of the list for Europe's Serbia, followed with special attention public debate, round tables, thematic stands held during draft work versions, until the law enters the assembly procedure. Given the fact that we have also made a special declaration about the family as a party, we believe that family, education, or investment in education is the best and most profitable investment. With a number of other economic and social and political measures that our country and society need to take, we hope that today's situation in Serbia, which is not high-level, will improve. Today, several Kragujevac MPs have applied for the discussion and may not be bad at reminding themselves that the first teaching school, from which the University of Teachers was later formed, was founded, or founded on the Holy Sava in 1871, in Kragujevac, and that since 1896, its headquarters in Aleksinec and that even in 1915, during World War I, it has served as a military hospital. Why did I mention this professional facility? Because, apart from what we in the SPO agree with, it seems to me that it is not a good network of preschool institutions, that the reasons are numerous, above all, economical, but also harsh centralization of everything, and even networks of preschool institutions. Today, all respected colleagues pointed to the correct fact that preschools are not in the rural area, that they are mostly not in the suburban area and that there are those in the city area with insufficient capacities. No matter what the law eliminates discrimination on any basis, which is a completely acceptable solution, we have a different situation on the ground today, but not because of this ministry and not because of this law, because it seems to me, this is one of the laws on which there was the least critical tones directed at its text. When I mentioned the School of Education for Teachers in Aleksinc, I think it is necessary to say that each of us has both private and official contacts with both educators and educators, psychologists, doctors who work or as a permanent employee, or as professional associates in preschool institutions. It seems to me that today no single critical word has been directed towards the expertise of these people in general, or as a relationship of these people to preschool children, which is an indication that they all emerged from an institution that has an accredited programme, which has a professional, organisational and technical capacity to surprise extraordinary personnel. The SPO is particularly pleased with the fact that the law on pre-school education and education provides that, apart from the Republic of Serbia, the AP and units of local self-government, foreign states and foreign natural and legal persons can establish a pre-school institution. If we said there was an insufficient number of preschools, then that's fine. It is assumed, and we know from life, if, for example, the founder of foreign states or foreign natural or legal persons, that reception conditions, or stay in those institutions, will be more financially severe, that mostly people with deeper pockets will be able to send their children there. That's good. It's a market economy. For all other groups that cannot afford it today, and they are the vast majority in Serbia, we believe that both the state and local self-government units will contribute to the network of pre-school institutions spread and be realized in the part. We are talking about this decentralisation on each subject, believe that decentralisation and pre-school education are needed, because the network of pre-school institutions is what it is. As far as the draft law on student and student standards is concerned, I don't think there have been any serious objections to that law, as far as the content itself is concerned, and what the law regulates. Clear and fair criteria for using credit, obtaining scholarships have been laid out. I liked the proposal of a few colleagues to consider, there are these amendments, that students who regularly finish their studies are freed from returning student loans because it would be a great stimulant to the best; it is one form of recognition for the completion of high school in the regular period. For all the reasons that the colleagues on the list of ZES, for all the reasons presented by the opposition, and, I say, did not have any sharper critical references to these two draft laws, the SPO will support them in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35882	Thank you, Mr. Chiquiriz. The word is Mrs. Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35883	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the Honorable Chairman, there is much to be said about these drafts of the law, and this, as one conclusion, we will repeat, I think that the minister here fully agrees, that it is indeed a pity that all educational laws have not received one plenary session and that they have not all been discussed together, which has not been analysed, corrected and adopted. It's something that comes from this discussion of all MPs, and opposition and positions, see. Education, I have already said, is the most important resource, resources in the people, resources in the knowledge and resources of our future, and deserves this approach, especially knowing that this ministry is one of those ministries in which we work in continuity. These bill proposals have long been prepared, possibly repaired, before they came to the congregation. Many of us have been able to get to know each other and are already on the Ministry’s site and those suggestions that are not in the congregation procedure. So for some future, it should be a practice that laws relating to such life areas, important and large areas, laws that cannot be passed on, laws that have to be regulated in the next few decades, in which each change leaves very serious consequences, must be passed just like that, in a global review, in the absolute engagement of all political factors in this country, so that we can have a real state strategy towards education and education. We now have an area that regulates preschool education and education and the area that regulates student and student standards. I said at the beginning of today's presentation that there are not many objections to the laws themselves in technical terms. We had objections that we put in the amendments. We have received union suggestions and, as far as I can see, the Ministry has quite respected that suggestion in the proposal that came before the MPs. So we found those painful points of society that concern education, education and our future that we see in our children, which are not the result of this ministry's work. From these legal proposals and from this discussion, we can ask that one general, different policy be produced, that the government apply a different policy towards children, education and education in this society. We've been wrestling for a long time, about two decades, and here, we're also finding in this law, or these laws, that there's always something limiting and that money and resources are a limiting factor. It then produces one discrimination against those who in different ways do not have the opportunity to enjoy what some legal opportunities provide. So, kids in the country, kids in some different social environments aren't in the same position as kids in town. What we think can still be done until this law is passed is that some of the members in the law can be corrected by amendments. I know that the minister always has a good will to intervene and that any well-founded amendment will be included in the amendment to the law. Even these laws will not be perfect until the end, but in any case, we expect that much more in the discussion in particular to be crystallized and that these laws, at least in the next decade, do not experience any more significant change, apply, that their application on the ground or in life is strictly controlled and that it is one of the areas in which there is no improvisation, there is no directism, nothing seems indirect, fast or irresponsible. If we invest in that part of our lives and we seriously implement everything we invest in education, we won't have to invest in police and prisons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35884	The word is Miss Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35885	Mr. Novakovic, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen and, above all and above all, the citizens of Serbia, I will try to be concise, I would not like to repeat myself. Today we have had the opportunity to hear colleagues from different parties and everyone has come very thoroughly to this topic that is extremely important to Serbia as it is, and should be. I'd like to ask you, Mr. Minister, why are we passing this law today, after seven years of preparation, or maybe more? What should be the real dilemma of all of us participating in this process is whether all of these laws, together with all of you in the executive power, will lead to the extent to be applicable and to improve the lives of those to whom legal solutions apply. It is a simple but very painful dilemma, will this law be enforceable? What does that mean? Are there resources for such legal solutions to be implemented? If resources don't exist, then what are we doing here? Do we just want to get close to something that now acts more like an illusory economic oligarchy, obviously, just a few centres of power, called the EU, by just making a normal approach, or do we want to meet certain standards that will mean improving life and working in Serbia? If this is different, then you have no problem with the SRS. We stand for it, we want it, not only declaratively, but we try to give us our contribution from this position, to participate in the debates, to really improve the daily life of Serbian citizens. Tell me, Mr. Minister, how many children are poor in Serbia? Tell me, how many preschool kids, when we talk about earlier categories of society, are included in institutional frameworks? Tell me, what are the perspectives for them? We had a very interesting analysis a few months ago, maybe a year and a half ago, to be exact. One NGO tried to answer what a man's life is worth in Serbia, counting what it should be like as a consumer basket. When they translated it numerically, it was supposed to cost a thousand euros. There's about a number left here and there with certain purchases, and that's again the price controlled by the government. Watch out for cynicism – so, for about 300 to 500 euros, a consumer basket for a man's life is expensive, and nominal earnings have fallen. In that context, I ask you, what are we doing here with these laws and is this legal proposal enforceable? Did the Ministry, we don't have that information, maybe I'm wrong, you'll certainly correct me, thinking about the social, economic context of adopting such a legal solution? If we get out of this, I won't do much intellectual flossules, that the child is the father of a man, and that these are the most vulnerable periods in growing up and maturing one person, tell me what Serbia can expect in 10 years, compared to the preschool chamber now? What is it that the state can offer in terms of material and technical assumptions for preschool children? Or, in the context of the second bill, how do you think you can improve the standards of student and student populations? Some of us live daily among that student population. I'm telling you that these young academic citizens, to a large extent more than 70%, live at the limit of survival, so they can't expect the support of their parents, mostly work to support themselves in large city centers, and then there's almost nothing from learning and the quality of studying. On the quality of the educational process, which has lost its pedagogical dimension, I will not purposely do this time. This time, with you, in front of the public, because this is the only opportunity for the government and the opposition to meet, not malignuously, I welcome this enterprise of the Ministry. This is a great move. I just want to ask you if he's enforceable. Have you, when you have prepared such a good proposal, with less or more changes and additions that we will hopefully try to give amendments to, to think about these assumptions that are necessary to make this society equal opportunities to start, a society where every child, when born, has the same possibility of being a normal person, living a life of decent people in Serbia? On the other hand, should those who take care of these children, in preschool or any other educational or pedagogical institution, be motivated to live, too, the life of a decent man? You have terrible, vicious Olympic circles of poverty in Serbia. You have families that are unstable, frustrated because they can't keep their jobs, so they can't even give their children a decent man's life, and that frustration just increases and multiplys. When we think about proposals for legal solutions, we always think about what that means directly in reality. Very often, when the debates take place in front of the public who brought us into this home, it happens that the argument goes into something called politics. For example, certain parties or parties are trying to take cheap political points, so they use a dictionary that's more equal to an unargumented debate, to be polite, but very justified by concrete facts. You won't hear it from the SRS this time, because it's a very sensitive law, because it's a very sensitive area, where we don't have the right to play, or to use or expect cheap political points. Is it easy for you? It's not. We think it's terribly difficult for you. But, on the other hand, you will allow, Mr. Minister, you have taken responsibility to advance or, at least, give hope to those concerned by the legal solutions, that there is some framework, that it is feasible, that it will not wait for reforms, some other, better times, and who knows if these other better times will come. What we expect during this debate to hear, without intending to go into detail, is what exactly did you design for preschool institutions to be geographically distributed, that there is no waiting, that there are normal conditions, therefore, resources that will give the child during this sensitive period of normal growth, and what are the perspectives? We are very often in this kind of debate, especially on such sensitive topics, we rely, you won't mind, I hope, but we were expecting some kind of conjecture on your part, even in terms of information, but also certain works of scientific workers, which, even, don't gravitate right-handed. On the contrary, some of them can be said to be gravitating the left or center. We intend to do so in order to give ourselves a perspective on the objectivity of approaching the subject. To me, too, would be interesting information about how many authorities are enrolling their children in private schools and children whose authorities are under the state education system? Why? Because it's a real example of practice. If you believe our education is good and if you believe this law is enforceable, then your children go to state schools. If you don't believe it, then your kids go to private schools. It stops every story, or there's a whole other debate going on. It's that debate that's supposed to take place in this House. We can't listen here to live great and that perspectives are great. We know what our gross social product looks like, we know what doesn't work, we know that the inflation rate is high, and we know that we are going towards a period that will be difficult for the transition in Serbia. What gave us a special, new framework is the work of Dr. Emine Kopas-Vukasinović, who works at the Institute for Pedagogical Research. I assume you've had this scientific work in your hands. He only gave us a partial picture. I don't suppose there's been a near-experimental study in terms of pre-school institutions of vulnerable categories of society, about the percentage of children affected, even though I haven't been able to get to that. I expected that, before this debate, we would get some kind of information, whether statistically or in terms of some empirical research done by Group 484, that we would have at least a picture, that we could see and feel what it looks like in reality and what this bill should fix. This paper was published last year. You won't mind because it's not updated data. We don't have any fresh data. What she noticed is that it is a very difficult situation when it comes to the implementation of certain strategies adopted by certain international institutions, and as part of the poverty reduction strategy, this preschool part is concerned. What was very frantic to me from the 2002 survey on the 2002 standard of living is that 10.6% of the population in Serbia's territory was already accounted for without Kosovo and Metohija, recorded as poor. Individuals are classified as poor because their daily spending amounted to less than 2.4 U.S. dollars. I ask you, how much daily consumption is today, seven years later and after the global economic crisis? That's a very significant piece of information. I may have confused you, but in the context of this information, we can think about the enforceability of this law. This information speaks of a picture of society, without the intention of pouring state optimism, because it is not the position of the opposition. We will try to make a very correct and reasoned criticism, with the intention of making these children better and making sure that all these children have the same opportunity as all the other children to live with a decent man's life. What is a very important fact, which has fraternised us, is that a certain percentage of children in Serbia grow up in families that are not existentially provided, do not have opportunities, given the low level of education, to acquire enough material resources for life, and those children are most often not in the system of institutional preschool education, but are in the group, I believe that you know that, too, sociologists have been using this instead of the term 'deprecated categories', societies socially excluded; somehow it connects with each other, and it works even more politely. According to 2002 data, 250,000 poor households were registered in Serbia. As far as we could find out, this year about 700,000 people live below the poverty line. Let's see what the data is for children, how these people's children live, what one of their average days of the year looks like. Now I'm trying, in the time that I've been given within the group, just to put on some topics that we should talk about, to figure out whether this law will be enforceable in the next five or the next 15 years and whether our children will live better in the next five or maybe in the next 15 years. In co-operation with the Republic Statistics Institute, UNICEF drafted a report on child poverty, their social exclusion, based on indicators for 2006. I'm sorry, Mr. Minister, that I can't go chronologically, but time doesn't allow me, I know you'll get a picture, and you have, as far as I can see, a really adequate ability to help you in what I'm trying to unwrap like a film in front of the public in Serbia. So, based on the 2006 indicators, the need to create conditions is stressed in order to achieve a growing coverage of children in the pre-school education and education system in Serbia. Among the strategic objectives in the field of education, the National Action Plan for Children sets out to increase their coverage of better quality preschool education and education, with specific measures for children of socially excluded groups. Given the fact that missed in preschool can hardly be compensated in older age, this topic is very serious, very sensitive and no one has the right to have political relations with it. So I hope that the debate will only be supported by facts. Preliminary survey results from multiple indicators, continued this expert, the position of women and children in Serbia, show that over 90% of the poorest and 96% of Roma children are not covered by pre-school education. When we know that among the poor is most of those at the lowest levels of education, it is certain that we can identify this area of social life as one of the key to implementing the poverty reduction strategy in Serbia. I'll take a break here. I'll see you these days. Time has been denied, and my colleagues want to make a contribution to this from some perspective. If you don't have it, I can provide you with Mrs. Emine's work, it's very good quality; it's used data that she might have come to, especially based on the Empirical Survey of Group 484. Mr. Minister, I hope that you and I, as well as your colleagues, understand each other perfectly well. I suppose all other colleagues will agree, because it is our goal to give these children who are coming a context in which, unlike us, they will have the same chance for a man's life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35886	Thank you. Seventeen-and-a-half minutes from the time of the Parliament Group. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Pejcic. Your parliamentary group's time is eleven minutes and ten seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35887	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Honored Presidency, Ministers, Representatives of the Government, we have two laws in the field of education. Since we've passed one "kroat" law, the Law on the basic system of education, it's time to work out that matter. However, I must at first express regret that these two laws have been sublimed at one point and are not particularly discussed. I think you share my opinion, as well as your colleagues, that these laws should have been spoken of in person. It's a good practice, Mr. Minister, that you visited the Democratic Party of Serbia Parliamentary Club. You are one of the few ministers who regularly visit MPs' clubs, where they present their laws, where in close contact with MPs they receive certain suggestions, certain instructions, and I hope you have reviewed our amendments, which are high and high quality, and that you will install certain amendments into these laws. When we talk about education, then we need to know that it's one of the basic pillars of a country, and that's why it's important what laws we're going to pass today, because of future generations. Many have been experimented in the past with our generations, which has been reflected in these generations, as well as in our society as a whole. The Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group has seriously and studioically accessed these laws, has done a number of amendments, which, as I said, have exceeded and established. Some are technical, some are essential. Our intensity was to fix the text of the law. When it comes to preschool law and education, I may repeat what my colleagues have said, that this law has been done for almost nine years, probably studioically, and that it has long been waiting for him. This law may have been passed long before, because it's not five to twelve, it's twelve and fifteen for us, for our nation, when it comes to its adoption. If we look at the statistics, that our country is third from the back by the number of child coverage of preschool institutions, then we should have passed this law much earlier. We're not imputing that it's your fault for this law, but surely the nation will suffer certain sequencings. We analyzed this law and based on it we have certain suggestions. First of all, Mr. Minister, we have suggestions when it comes to language. There were polemics here about these bilingual departments. It is our opinion that you, as an in-house body, are the one who should prescribe bilingual attainment of educational work, to determine how to use the language of national minorities, and that this should be brought into line with this law. You also said, Mr. Minister, that the Republic, autonomous provinces, local self-government, are the only ones who can establish pre-school institutions. What we disagree with in this article is the possibility of forming a facility for between five and 100 educational groups. We think it's a great galamatias and it's best to form classes of up to 50 groups, because of better quality work, better quality monitoring of teachers and professors at work. In fact, certain local self-governments complained that they couldn't react in this way, so we checked that possibility. They complained that the Ministry of Education was not sending enough transfers and that they could not organize those departments. However, from the Ministry itself, we have received a document that you in time transfer funds to local self-government, and the other thing is that they use these funds for other purposes. This should be dealt with by other institutions, we mean a budget inspection, which should review these matters. When it comes to sensitive groups, you have listed in one article, in the nomenclature, which vulnerable groups have the advantage of enrolling. We think that the amendment is in collegiate with the Discrimination Act, since these social groups have not yet been defined. We've tabled an amendment that only speaks of sensitive groups. I think that's how it's supposed to stay. When it comes to professional service, educators and other people involved in educational work, we have seen a failure, probably a technical nature. Chapter 5 says he needs a pedagogical assistant, and in Article 35, he's gone. It's probably a technical error, and you'll probably put it in article 35 that talks about these teachers. We have requested by amendment that the pedagogical assistant has the lowest third degree of education, so that he can do the job. It's not in this law, I'm guessing it's technical again, and you're also going to implement it in this law. Secondly, since there is a reform of secondary education, we assume that there is room for other educational profiles, so we thought it would be good for the educator's nomenclature to stand and – a pediatric nurse technician, who, with her competence, to find herself in that nomenclature. What's important, Mr. Minister, we've asked for one amendment that schooling for the preschool preschool programme must be free, as is basic schooling, just to indicate in the text of the law that it will be. When it comes to the law on student and student standards, the DSS has seriously accessed this law, analyzed it, because we think that this law is important for future intelligence, for those people who will lead this country in some future period, and we are the ones who need to create conditions and assumptions for them to be quality schooled. We have invested a number of amendments, especially about the conditions of admission to student and student homes, as well as their obligations and rights, especially regarding the use and consumption of narcotics, because we think that such students and students are a latent danger to all those living in student homes. I'd like to take the opportunity, Mr. Minister, to introduce you to a problem that happened in the local self-government of Leskovac. You know who's the president of the council there, I don't want to talk about names right now. In fact, SO Leskovac appointed members of the school board and advice from the parents at the previous session. Normally, it was done in a high-quality way at school, according to the Law on the Foundations of the Education System. A secret vote selected three parents, delivered the minutes to the school administration. You know it's a tripartite school board. The local self-government voted those people, so that there are only six members of the school board at the next session without any arguments, which is a great paradox and a disgrace to the local self-government itself, because it brutally violated the Law on the Foundations of the Education System. So we expect you to react, Mr. Minister. We've also filed a criminal report against the chiefs of social action for falsifying this document. We will also address the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government to undo this decision by the Assembly, and I hope that you will use your authority to help this school fill out that school board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35888	Thank you, Mr. Pejcic. The word is Mrs. Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35889	The Honorable Chairman, Minister Obradovic, representatives of the government, fellow MPs, the day of the law's entry into force, the work of preschool education and education will become part of the education system, and for the first time, it will be regulated by law on the basis of a system of education, which was long awaited. We know well that the text of the draft law on preschool education has been discussed for a long time both in the Ministry and in the public debates, whose holders were a forward ministry, as well as educators working in the area. They warned that the adoption of such a law should be a priority, as preschool institutions operate without their law. In Articles 5, 9 and 17 of this law, there are eight of these members, set up an area of preschool education relating to the study of the native language of national minorities. Article 5 establishes the existing situation, i.e. enabling the educational and educational work of preschool children in the mother tongue in the environments in which the majority of members of the national minority live, which should continue to be achieved and promoted. The bilingual pedagogical practice, i.e. educational and educational work in bilingual educational groups from Articles 5 and 32, is also possible in the environments where members of national minorities live, which should be welcomed. However, due to migration movements and a small number of national minorities in major urban areas, where there is no possibility of forming educational groups where educational and educational work would take place in the native language, I welcome the possibility of carrying out activities related to election programmes, and this possibility is given in Articles 17 and 26. As for the second law, practice has shown that student and student standards are specific as a system that cannot function in a law relating to a secondary education system. It required an independent law. So I welcome what we bring, i.e. Today we're discussing this second law. I would like to point out once again that LSV MPs will vote in favour of the drafts of these laws, but I would ask the Resolute Ministry to bring Article 12 of the Law on Student Standard into line, since it does not comply with the Law on National Councils. We know that the National Councils Act was passed on August 31st, so it's not your failure, essentially, there's still time for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35890	Thank you, Mrs. Papuga. Now I'm going to read the order of speakers, because the constant pre-tumbations of this order... Yeah, I got confused. That looks about like this and it's not good, because that discipline in order to go wrong. The next has the word Mr. Goran Mihajlović, so Mr. Milan Vukovic, then Mr. Dusan Maric, Srdjan Milivojevic and Milan Avramović, then, Ms. Jadranka Jovisic, Mr. Sladjan Mijaljević and, in the end, Miss Tijana Nikolic. That would have exhausted the list. Thank you for understanding. I give the word to Mr. Goran Mihajlovic, as I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35891	Nice, Mr. Novakovic. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, Mr Minister, today we are discussing two draft laws on education and education, and these are the draft laws on preschool education and education and the draft laws on student and student standards. Both of these bill proposals are very delicate and specific, for the simple reason that they include two very sensitive categories. The first category is preschool children. These are children, as is known, who are the youngest subjects of our educational and educational system and thus are the objectives of education and education very different from the population of the elderly. We also know that this practice has shown that the sooner those children get involved in preschool education, the easier they socialize, and later they get along in society and life in general. The second category is students and students, who, as a rule, always require far more than what is officially offered to them, whether they are accommodations, rights or certain material or other givings, and thus each government and any government know that with this category they should be as careful as possible. The SRS, as always, gives this problem great significance. In addition to this, the fact is that we have submitted to these two draft laws, if I have counted correctly, some 63 amendments, 13 to this proposal on pre-school education and 50 amendments to the draft law on student and student standards. We will defend and explain these amendments when there is a debate in particular. Since this is a debate in principle, we'll make some of our general observations and suggestions. Since my esteemed colleagues Natasa Jovanovic and Radica Jocic have very detailed and detailed the law on pre-school education and education, I am going to refer to this presentation and focus a little more on this second law – on student and student standards, in order for Serbian citizens to acquire a rounded continent on the views of our parliamentary group. When we talk about the law on student and student standards, we need to know that this law is closely related to the other two laws that we have already passed in this assembly, which are the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, which was adopted last 2009, and the Law on Higher Education, which was adopted in 2005. However, both of these laws were of general character because they treated each of their own problems, while the law on student and student standards is specific because it is a specific and problem he treats. Otherwise, our first law on student and student standards was passed in 1992, so it was slightly modified in 1993, 1994 and 2005, but since it was the law of the then SRJ state, the promoter found it appropriate to propose a new law, so that it would comply with the legal system and the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia. There are two things that seem very positive about this law. It is that nowhere in reason is mentioned either by the EU or by any other international organisation. It seems to me that for the first time the government has thought a little bit of its own, which should also be a practice on future occasions, because laws are not passed for foreign customers, but for the citizens of Serbia and for their interests. Another good thing is that there are no additional funds for the implementation of this law, or any new agency for its implementation, which, as we know, was almost daily practice in previous laws. Now I'm going to give a brief analysis of the main suggestions of our parliamentary group on this bill, but not on the details, but on the general issues, since this is a principle debate. In the first chapter, where basic provisions are given, the subject, the purpose of the law, the entities to which they apply, etc. are indicated. In one part of this chapter, it is said that, apart from citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the right to the services of the student and student standards has both students and students who have the citizenship of some of the countries in the region, as well as citizens of a foreign country. I couldn't quite figure out what countries in the region were thinking. It would be illogical if these students and students had the same rights as our citizens. That is why I propose that this should be explained a little closer by some sublegal act, which will later be brought, because it is certain that these are not the same categories – a student of our citizen and student of a foreign citizen. Secondly, I will repeat what I pointed out yesterday at the Committee on Education session, Mr. Minister and his associates were present, they know what it was, but because of the other MPs. When it comes to sensitive categories, the law states that they are children of fallen fighters, then displaced faces, Roma populations, etc. I would ask – what about children involved in wars from 1990 to 1999? Because these people, you see, every day they protest, they demand that their rights be fulfilled, the rights they deserve, but the government can't meet them, so there's a chance that in this bill, some sublegal act, some benefits are given to these children, which would have an advantage in getting home, or other services related to student and student standards. Furthermore, in Chapter 3, the categorization of institutions of student standard was carried out on four groups, on the home of students, student centre, student resort and student cultural centre, while institutions of student standard were categorized into three groups: student center, student resort and student cultural centre. This is in itself in order that Article 32 does not provide for the possibility that services in the student and student standard can also be provided by another organisation, i.e. another legal or natural person, on the basis of a contract concluded with the Ministry and in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. Doesn't it seem to you that this article provides a possibility for large manipulations, because if we add Article 23, which also provides for other activities in these institutions, or services that can be provided to third parties, who guarantees that one day this institution will not turn into some hotel-type facility or something like that? Unfortunately, we in this country have many such examples where the factories that were privatized lost their purpose, even military facilities, individual barracks, were sold out, so they became warehouses and the like. So this is a latent danger for the institutions of student and student standards to go beyond their original purpose. Furthermore, Chapter 4 speaks of institutions of student and student standards. So that I don't repeat everything now, I'm going to say what our main objection is. It is the number of board members in individual institutions. In particular, we think that there are too few people on the board of directors in the line of staff. Here's a few examples. It is predicted that the institutions of the student standard have seven board members – three from the founders' order, two from the parents' order and only two from the staff's ranks. The same is the institution of the student standard, if up to 1500 is the accommodation capacity – nine board members, and only two of the staff, i.e. for institutions over 1500 seats – 13 board members, of which only three of the staff members and, ultimately, at the student cultural centre – nine board members, again only two of the staff members. We believe that this is too little and that this is very easy to carry out further politicization of these institutions, which should not be the goal of any of us. I'll skip chapter five. The 6th chapter discusses the Republic Fund for the Development of Scientific and Artistic Youth. Conditions have been given for obtaining scholarships for specially gifted and talented students and students. The sources of funding for these purposes are the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and then donations and gifts, as well as other sources. We know from experience that these donations and other sources are very uncertain and unstable sources of income, so it remains as the primary budget of the Republic of Serbia. I would ask the question -- is this 8.4 billion dinars, as foreseen by the 2010 budget for student and student standards, enough to fund this fund? Because I'm going to quote something Mr. Minister said at the Committee on Education session on 11 December 2009. He then said that 97% of the education budget funds go to employee earnings. Is it possible, then, that 3% of those remaining for the entire education can be financed by one such institution as this fund for talented students? The next three chapters – 7, 8 and 9, are funded by students' and student standards. We think this is a much less sensitive problem than funding preschool education and education institutions, because, as we know, there is a huge variation between local and local self-government. We suggest that this is kind of even, so that people in preschool institutions who do the same work anywhere, in the north or in southern Serbia, have the same compensation for their work. Finally, I would like to point out once again that our parliamentary group, in the context of discussions in particular, when these 63 amendments come to order, will explain our views to the citizens of Serbia on these issues which are very important and affect the very essence of the law on education and education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35892	Thank you very much. 13 minutes and 25 seconds have been used since the Parliament Group's time. Mr Milan Vučković has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35893	Dear fellow Members of the People, I am pleased that after all these changes in order, I have the opportunity to present to you in a few minutes why I think it is necessary to vote for the laws on the agenda. I will focus my attention, that is, your attention and my time, above all, on the draft law on student and student standards, on what dorms are like, what the rooms in which students stay and sleep, what food is in the student centres, what is the offer in the student cultural centre. We are not talking about our students and students just how important they are to us, us as a society and as a Parliament that makes some laws. We also tell them how important education is for them and their future, for their perspective, how much knowledge and education is worth in Serbia. Therefore, even though this law does not directly apply to the teaching itself, nor to what is the methodology of learning, it is essential. This law, i.e. its application, and I hope that we will vote it with the largest majority, will lead to institutions and institutions of the student standard working better. In practice, this will mean that anyone who, for the first time, father or mother, sends their child to a bigger city, or a big city, will have at least 1% less worry about who will wait there, whether they will have good food, whether they will be warm, whether they will have to worry about elementary things or not, since this law treats other institutions, such as the student cultural centre, rest and recreation, or the recovery of students and students, which is even more important. I expect that, apart from quality, the quantity of institutions will be increased through several solutions. I think that's enabled. This law, or bill of law, does not come from the fact that we are Sweden and that we can accomplish everything. He respects reality, but suggests some concrete things that will lead to student and student institutions working better in the future. First of all, there are several very effective solutions. One of them is decentralisation in the establishment. We've heard from the opposition several times today that it's wrong. Article 24 says the institution can establish a Republic of Serbia an autonomous province, a unit of local self-government and another domestic or foreign legal or physical person. I think it is very important, given that only the Republic of Serbia could do so far, which is the establishment of these institutions decentralised. It is particularly important that local self-government can now establish institutions of student and student standards, because people in local self-government have the necessary knowledge, very often and with the space to do so, and the capacities are absolutely below the needs of Serbian citizens and our education system. If we only limit ourselves to student centres, and I will only limit myself to my town, Kragujevac, there are 630 students in the student centres today in Kragujevac. If we know that the number of students who study at Kragujevac University, who are not from Kragujevac, is over 10,000, then you can see that these people, too, have to sleep somewhere, have to feed, which is usually by private apartments. I think it's also an opportunity for local self-government to take advantage of such a chance, and this is an opportunity and to increase capacity, to allow a large number of those students to live in certain quality conditions, which, by the way, have to be managed privately and to pay rent to private apartment owners. Although, from an economic point of view, this is not bad for the town of Kragujevac, I think it is much better for them to live in dorms and feed there. I'm glad the minister mentioned that such a centre will be built in Nis, but I hope the Kragujevac will not be forgotten either. If you need one pair of hands, to carry whatever you need, bricks, here I am, or any other help, and I think you'll get that answer from everyone in Kragujevac. Besides this, I'm glad that great attention is given to so-called. sensitive groups. It is one civilizational fluid, to pay particular attention to those who have special needs or who come from marginalized groups. That's something I'd like to point out and commend in this bill, among other things. Much has been said about the Republic Fund for the Development of Scientific and Student Youth, and I am glad that the Minister in the discussion has divulged some dilemmas, wrong assumptions made by some MPs, but I am sorry that I have heard that the establishment of this fund will not entail greater funds. I hope there will be more resources in the budget, if not for this one, then for next year, because it's very important to us. I am glad that there is coordination with other ministries, given that I have noticed myself, reading various strategies of law and regulation of our state, that there are funds that very often overlap. You know, like in math, when gatherings overlap at certain points. I think we should coordinate all this, because all of them, no less, are funding from the same point, which is from our citizens, or the budget of the Republic of Serbia. What I would point out is a democratic principle that is incorporated into this bill, which is that those concerned, above all, this matter, are involved, through the boards of directors, in decision-making in institutions. The students are their parents, and the students are the students themselves. It's okay, and I see that this principle and other draft laws that were passed in the previous period in front of the Ministry of Education are respected, and when it comes to high schools, and when it comes to basic and all other institutions that are under the authority of the Ministry of Education, and that will continue to be so. As someone who is a party activist and a politician by profession, because I am an MP, I would point out that we need to depolitise student organisation and the work of student institutions and that is something that has been introduced into this law. I am very glad that, because we must not allow this matter to react in the wrong way in Serbia, because the laws of physics and chemistry apply equally everywhere, and the laws of politics and relations do not apply exactly everywhere. What is compatible in Sweden, it causes the wrong reaction in Serbia, so although standards in many Western countries are different, it is good for us that the policy is separate from the student organisation. It is commendable and I expect other MPs to support it. I am pleased and congratulate the Ministry for including all relevant factors, and student organisations, and health-support associations, student cultural centres, in the drafting of this law and in public debate. I know, because I talked to them, that they were all involved in a public debate and that they contributed to their proposals to make this law as good as it is. Given what we heard today by the opposition, I'm sure everyone has noticed they don't have any particular grudges on this bill. In this House we have passed many laws in the previous year. This year, everything went well and they are all very important for the citizens of Serbia, because they change real life in Serbia. These laws deserve our special sensitivity and special attention, as they concern our future and those who should bear Serbia's future in the coming period. That is why I will point out once again that it is necessary to vote in favour of this law and I am glad that the discussion has shown that we do not have major obstacles to a peaceful conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35894	Thank you. Eight minutes and 15 seconds. The word has a folk MP, Mr Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35895	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to take this opportunity to look at two legal solutions from the Preschool Education and Education Bill. Article 11 provides that pre-school institutions in Serbia can also be established by foreigners. We of the SRS find that inadmissible, for the following reasons. The fact is that children in Serbia are already exposed to terror that the United States and other developed countries are doing through television programmes, cartoons, video games and other mass media. This terror is everyday, takes more and more aggressive forms and leaves lasting consequences, especially for our children's mental health. As a result, we have an increase in violence, not only in schools and other educational institutions, but also in preschools and kindergartens. Almost no day goes by and somewhere in Serbia's interior, to Belgrade, there are no incidents of a guy having mass fights of lower-class primary school students. It is a serious problem, a real social elemental disaster, which is not given sufficient importance either in the family or in society as a whole. I believe that this assembly should adopt legal solutions that will solve this problem, which will reduce this elemental disaster, not solutions such as what is proposed, which, in my opinion, will be wind in the back. The second solution is a solution from Article 13 of the same law, which stipulates that children employed by parents have the advantage of being admitted to preschool institutions, compared to the children of unemployed parents. We believe that it is inadmissible, literally, embarrassing discrimination, lagging behind in some of the previous times. She was just and justifying herself that parents who are in constant labor have no one to look after their children while they are in their workplace. It turns out that parents who aren't constantly employed have nothing to do, have no obligations, have extra time, so there's no need for their children to be in kindergartens or preschools for that time. Things are completely different. Parents who do not have a permanent job are forced to fight for the existence of their family, are forced to fight for the education and education of their children and are therefore forced to do seasonal and other occasional jobs, in much more difficult conditions than parents who have permanent employment do, with average hours longer and with monthly incomes, which are generally significantly less than receiving parents who have permanent jobs. Another thing, parents who have a steady job, have, to put it this way, one security, can enter some arrangements relating to the engagement of people who will protect their children, while parents who do not have any sources of income and cannot afford that luxury. You have one absurd, if this provision remains, that it may happen, let's say, that the MP whose wife is working together has received 150 thousand dinars, has the advantage of getting children into kindergarten, compared to, say, a married couple who has two or three children, and at the time of this transition, both have lost their jobs. We believe that this is inadmissible and for this reason we have submitted an amendment proposing that this legal solution be deleted. I'll take the opportunity to inform the Minister of Education, point out one problem, he's concerned with the Great Plan. In Krnjevo near Velika Plana for a month, it has been a state of emergency, resulting from the government's decision and attempts by the Ministry of Environmental Protection to put down dangerous waste in a military facility located on the hills above the village. There are at least ten legal reasons why this facility cannot be used for these purposes. So that I don't get out of the picture, I'll only list three legal reasons that directly concern the Ministry of Education's jurisdiction. The first reason - under the rules on the treatment of substances treated as dangerous - is to prohibit the disposal and storage of these substances at a distance of less than five kilometers from the settlement. The facility in Krnjev is several hundred meters away from the first rural houses and is within a mile and a few hundred meters from the village school attended by several hundred pupils. That's the first reason I think you should pay attention to solving this problem. Under the same regulation, waste must be at least three kilometres from protected natural goods and cultural monuments. This warehouse is located several hundred metres from the oldest rural school building in Serbia and, as far as I know, Minister Obradovic visited the school during his visit to Krnjevo. I know you were in Krnjevo for building a sports hall, so I think you also visited a school that is really the oldest rural school in Serbia. The third reason is that the warehouse is located close to drinking water, where Krnjevo and the village school, which has several hundred students, is supplied with water from the water supply, which has capital facilities close to this military facility. I urge the Minister of Education and the Ministry to pledge their authority and put pressure on the government to change this decision. I just want to let the Minister and the public know that the people of Krenjev blocked that military facility a month ago. They do not allow waste disposal to be carried out there and stand firm in the view that these 24-hour guards will hold them until the moment the government changes this unreasonable decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35896	It's been used for six and a half minutes. Mr. Milivojevic isn't here. Miss Jadranka Jovisic has her word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35897	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments and MPs, we have before us today a bill on student and student standards. The Ministry of Education and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia initiated the adoption of this law because they identified problems in the application of the 1992 Law. In order to correct the rights of students and students under the student and student standards, they have proposed this law to us. It was necessary to bring some legal solutions into line with the RS Constitution. It is very important to bring solutions into line with some new laws that have been passed, but also with certain standards, especially when it comes to the quality of nutrition in institutions for the accommodation of pupils and students. I must express my satisfaction that the proposed solutions are the result of debates with stakeholders, i.e. students. I'm coming from Novi Sad. I was a student until recently, I'm 23 years old, and I know my peers talked about it. I know that they participated in public debates and that they are pleased with what is before us today and that hopefully we will vote very soon. What is also important to say is that the student and student standards, in general, aim to improve the system of secondary and higher education as such. Therefore, only with a strong student and student standard can the conditions for obtaining education for social inclusion, but also the personality and interest of students and students. It is very important to say that this law guarantees that both secondary and higher education will be available to all students and students equally, regardless of which social group they belong. Discrimination has been disabled, and that is why we are very pleased. There will be a follow-up of students who have developed special talents, who are gifted in science or art. We express our satisfaction that the Republic Fund is being established for the development of scientific and artistic youth. Someone's gonna work with those young people. It's been done so far, but it'll be done now, hopefully, much better. Rights have been provided for students and professors from international exchange, new institutions of student standard, such as student resorts, student centres, student cultural centres. We find that very important. What's new is that students' standards can now be established by businessmen, and previously, according to the applicable law, only the government could do so. The right to establish private institutions of student and student standards is something new and something that will allow the quality of the work of such institutions. That's why we're so glad. We have improved professional work within institutions of student and student standards, training of persons who are employed there, passing license exams, etc. I must say, I've spoken to my fellow students, but also to the students of Novi Sad, I've found they're satisfied with the standard that exists. We have a really large number of student and student homes, which are very well equipped. I sincerely hope that such an impression will be shared by students throughout Serbia, not only in Vojvodina. I express my deepest hopes that it will indeed be so and I call on my colleagues and colleagues to vote for this law in the coming period, when it comes to voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35898	Thank you, Miss Jovisic. Mr Milan Avramović has the word. The remaining time is 18 minutes and 45 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35899	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished ministers, for the sake of the public, the essence of this law can be understood under four, let's say, essential items – the way the director is elected through a public competition, newspapers, application of this law and regulation, i.e. The control of the Ministry, through inspectors and educators, I must underline this – the Ministry, in order to break the thesis that the minister represents the Ministry, which is why we have submitted a large number of amendments in which we are looking for a correction, and the fourth thesis is the formation of a Republic Fund for the Development of Scientific and Artificial Youth. This is the essence of the adoption of laws and basic flossula, which are known from the previous period. In light of the reasons for the adoption of this law on student and student standards, it is said that practice has shown that student and student standards are specific and that in our legal system there is a tradition of special regulation of this area. What we can agree on is that a specific standard is both a student and a student, for the simple reason that it is a valid law, as we all mentioned, adopted in 1992, and corrected in 1993, 1994, or 1995, and that the specific work of the institution, as well as the rights of the students, is something that was appropriate to the authorities at the time, and probably also to today's authorities, or to the day of today, or until the day of the amendment of this law. You can agree with me that it's a pretty long period, but that these specificities are something that went into service. For this reason, I must also mention this period from 1992, 1993, 1994 and 1995 – the period of Minister Jovan Todorovic, who had no will, and perhaps neither the strength nor the possibility of this law to work, changes according to the needs of student and student standards. As far as tradition is concerned, we must say that tradition has been interrupted since the adoption of this law. I can tell, no corrections, it's 17 years old. It is good that we are discussing this topic today, but, for the sake of tradition, it should also be mentioned that even in Serbia, Prince Milos was led to worry about the standard of students, first of all, the poorest ones, because even then the people of Serbia at the time cared about the hardworking and talented students who could not provide themselves with the necessary early, and that was certainly negativity, and that it was a pity and then not to notice such students, or, let's say, high school students, and to deprive Serbia of the best, those generations that should represent the best. Immediately after the formation of Serbia's largest school facility, funds were to be provided for gifted students, which was made in the government of Prince Milos, in order to stay in Serbia. We must agree that tradition is no longer such and that the best leave Serbia, so the preamble of calling for tradition does not bring the legitimacy of this bill into force from the existing state. Mr. Minister, I'd like to mention a few things to you. Don't take it personally, but you are now in a position to defend or attack either a coalition partner or your own party. What is recognizable are examples of corruption producing fruit, and we will definitely all agree that corruption is one of the basic diseases that led to the student standard being very bad, or the student standard, however. I will give an example in which the largest amounts of money went in an unknown direction, and they went on investment in dormitories and, in general, during construction works, which were most often entrusted to one company, the company "Esthetics Interproject", which, among other things, worked to F in the Student City, Student Policlinic and the Student Home of Lola. The firm won the contests by offering the lowest price, which was subsequently increased several times by contract annexes. Objects are built at three times the price, and it's not even built properly. That's why the Lola dormitory is sinking today, because of the catastrophic work done. Second case. When it comes to the House of High School Students of Belgrade, by comparing the cost of construction and construction work from 1998 and 1999, so I mentioned the ministers, so I joined your role today to attack and defend your own party, in 1999, the work on two floors in wing 1 was paid at the time 816,811 marks, while the works on wing 2, for only one floor, cost only 115,116 marks and that is why I mentioned Minister Jovan Todorovic. When it comes to the House of High School Students "Jelica Milovanovic", construction and craft work on adaptation and reconstruction, carried out during 2000, cost over 13 million dinars, and a year later, the same works cost eight and a million less. I hope they were responsible for these machinations and those who ran the student centres, the boards that nominated the harmful contracts, as well as the people who decided at the Ministry of Education. I know, the data is generally known, more than six criminal charges have been filed, but a whole series of cases are under investigation, and the outcome is still unknown for now. That the kind of corruption is in effect and now, even though the coalition partner before you, Mr. Minister, led the Educational Resor, we have special examples, which are determined control. One example is the provision of institutions of student standard, the Belgrade Security company, which charged 240 dinars per hour of its service, and the number of people employed at that time was a third higher than today, although it is known that today this service is 85 dinar per hour, as a standard security framework. A special form of corruption were people who allegedly worked through youth cooperatives. Control has shown they've never worked, even though this nonexistent work has been paid. Examples here are defeating the institution to the facility, because they say about 20 people are engaged through youth cooperatives, and control has been found not to work either, or maximum, two. It was leaving the budget again or giving some opportunity to get rich at the expense of the student standard. It is also worth mentioning that the self-organization of students was in effect and then and now, that the subscription books for food in the cafeterias and the membership mafia, I would say, a special story, is so much more important, because the diet of a student state costs about 90 euros a month, in addition to its participation, and that at that moment they have not completely interrupted the resales chains, counterfeiting of subscription books. Today it's called a chipped card, which is being resold by dorms for 3,000 dinars. The resale of beds in dorms is also a practice that needs to be interrupted. It is still in force, and there is only one measure in this bill that says that there is an inability to exercise rights if something is determined. It is not precise how it is determined. We have therefore submitted an amendment that I will try to explain in the debate in particular, but that the disease continues to be in place also says that all those who, even, schedule beds, specialised groups, who organised buying and reselling beds, earning between 300 and 500 euros per bed, i.e. 4 or 5 million per year, since between six and six and a half thousand beds were resold in the territory of Serbia. Ministers, the bill, except for these four norms that I have stated, has not essentially solved this problem and this disease that is located in dorms, because you yourself know that, for example, poor conditions in student homes contribute to student standards. I'll remind you that last year's student home "Zarko Marinković" Zemun is renovated, and yet there is no special bathroom, so there is a separate shared bathroom, which is in catastrophic condition, and last year is a renovated home, that the carpentry, wet knots and that shared bathrooms are still in poor condition, that the place that a student took has been resold, mainly, to the graduates, who have expired on the insolvency deadline or student who renewed the year, because he has no right to apply for bed. Abuse, for example, is in some homes that you take money from students for so-called. social life, which was taken to adapt that home, because students pay for social life, but since adaptation, there's still nothing. The bill should be in force, but with more precise things, which is why we will make a great effort to give detailed explanations in the discussion in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35900	Thank you. Ten minutes and 40 seconds have been spent since the Parliament Group's time. The word has a folk letter from Miss Tijana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35901	Dear Presidency, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament and MPs, today we have before us a bill on student and student standards. Given the many problems students and students have faced over the past 18 years in achieving their rights in this area, as well as the problems encountered by institutions in their work, it was clear that it was necessary to pass a new law, which would remove all shortcomings identified in practice. It was also necessary to align legal solutions with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, primarily, and then with the government's development strategies, new laws and standards that were adopted in the meantime, and in particular with standards that relate to the quality of food in students' accommodation institutions. The law that is before us provides the availability of higher and secondary education to all students and students from the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, under the most favourable conditions and without discrimination. What is important, it allows those who belong to sensitive social groups to exercise their rights in these areas, with incentive measures and conditions. It is very important that members of sensitive social groups are enabled to have the assistance of professional associates or assistants in the exercise of their rights in this area. The new law provides for organised and systematic monitoring and care for the development of students and students who are particularly interested and talented in scientific and artistic work, through the establishment of a Republic Fund for the Development of Scientific and Art talent. Then, this law establishes a network of institutions of student and student standards, with clearly defined conditions for establishment, work, competences, as well as the obligation of professional staff to perfect itself during their work within these institutions. The special positive side of this bill is that it is possible to establish private institutions of student and student standards, as well as the possibility of full supervision of the work of these institutions, as earlier as possible, so it is possible to control the legality of certain procedures, it is possible to establish inspection supervision, but also professional and pedagogical supervision. Given that the application of new solutions set up by this bill would, above all, bring equality between students and students in the exercise of their rights in this area, but also improve the quality of work of student and student standards and their competitiveness, I urge you to support this law in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35902	As the last registered speaker, the word has been given by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35903	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Speaking of these legal proposals, I will talk more about the ambience that exists in these social and life areas, which should be governed by these laws, which have been created over the past period. I really hope, Mr. Minister, that you, as you yourself said today, will accept what proved to be good in the previous period and through the evaluation, as you said, will reject what proved to be unnecessary and bad. Your associate on the Committee yesterday gave one piece of information that writing one of these laws, I think this education at the preschool institution, of course, and these other laws, has started since the time of Minister Gaša Knezevic. People who hold on to themselves, to their morals, to their integrity, who are patriots, who are hosts, with grief remember those days and those moments when the said minister, or said politician, was the minister where you are today. I was truly hoping that you would do the discontinuity with the time of Mr. Gaša Knezevic, with those reforms he introduced and what he was doing in those powerful camps, in those psychological workshops, at the level at which he brought down educational workers, not to remind ourselves now of those "hot rabbits" through which the educators went through, through those games with his underwear, brusthalters and other things, famous his statements. I hope you forget that time, especially because there were two others between you and him, to say, normal minister, especially Mrs. Ljilja Colic, who tried to separate man and monkey in a certain way. Some have found themselves, though, offended and injured, reportedly, due to incorrectness in a political statement. I don't just know who's more offended, whether people, whether these others. In any case, it is in your favor, that you overcome these problems and leave this country to Serbia and put it in its education system, in its cultural and historical values, the civilization values that have existed here for at least 2000 years. So over the past 10 years, a variety of vague reforms have been causing really violent reactions from both the professional public and the educational workers, including parents. Several publications have also been published by the professional public, including individuals dealing with education and raising children. I'm undermining that this law should be seriously supported by other laws, because we're becoming ridiculous. We're getting funny for a lot of reasons, we don't have to go into deeper knowledge, and what's coming through the media is enough. For example, how is it possible that the wife of one of the biggest drug dealers in the Balkans can currently have a private kindergarten? It's not clear to me how is it possible that a man, a criminal, who's under the "processing" of certain services for so long, for several years, might not be in some subtle way prevented from making some of his closest relatives a private kindergarten? If nothing else, then maybe it's the money laundering through that institution. Then, you have another case, where also one criminal protected witness, the famous or most famous protected witness of Serbia, bought or became a co-owner of the university. In the wake of these newly-compromised businessmen and academic citizens, I would really not be surprised to see a private law school, which would be a disgrace to Serbia, as a newly graduated lawyer, run into and charged with its intellectual and educational capacity. As it goes, we should not be surprised, but we hope in you and your common sense that these negative phenomena will either slow down or cut into the root. As I have already mentioned today, these two draft laws are legal solutions that do not bring money into the budget, but are legal ones that regulate certain areas, which are areas that are currently spending money from the budget. If, for example, in Article 3 of the Law on student and student standards, we see that the state is obliged to provide accommodation, nutrition and educational work, student credit, student scholarships, scholarship for extremely gifted students, rest and recovery, cultural and artistic activities, sports and recreational activities, information, both for high school students and students, then we know how much funding it takes to ensure all this. We can't think of enough to turn a building around or replace an old school board, or a ruler and a sixth party, but we need to bring in these extracurricular activities, or bring in some new contents and some new teaching aids, which will make these lectures more interesting. All this requires money from the budget, and the fallen economy is hardly able to provide us with all that, so I really think that what we've been saying here today and what you've suggested, and what the state needs to provide for students and students, can only become a list of good wishes, and that we as a state are just detaching our business. In order to avoid these laws being a list of good wishes, I hope you will accept certain amendments that we have submitted and fix these drafts of the law, and then manage to make such a consensus in the government to start the economy and to enable these 65,000 and more companies that are not working to work, and to make certain contributions to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and that you can proceed as long as it takes and to provide the children with all of this that we have brought here to them. What is most important of all, once again, I underline, I hope that you will do this discontinuity with all those workshops, mental tapes, things that humiliate man and his morals, which through Mr. Gaša Knezevic and various people who were members of NGOs were supposed to live in Serbia, and one of them said at a public gathering, at the Book Fair – our fight began in school benches and ended in school benches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35904	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a common principle and uniform search, I ask, do they want the word of the president, or of the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93? (Yes) The word has Dr. Nikola Krpić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35905	Dear Vice President, Mr. Minister, I believe that after the principle debate, you are happy because today our colleagues here have said and declared that there is an excellent law ahead of us. We talked about preschool education, student and student standard. In the end, I would say that this student and student standard must have a health standard. There are many schools that have had hospitals, which are now closed. There are hospitals where equipment is worth tens of millions, such as dental hospitals in Serbia. In many schools doctors don't come anymore, because local self-government, for saving, left it behind. So there's an object, there's equipment, there's a frame on the bureaus, but the local self-governments are poor, and that part of the job will be empty for us. Because of the quality of the law, you have heard from the predecessors, you deserve all the recognitions, and I would ask you to look at this problem as Ministry of Education and Education, or with the Minister of Health, more detail, more seriously than I do here today, that we can solve this problem – that every school with a thousand or 1,200 students must have a dentist, to protect their health, and a pediatrician doctor. It's the only request of PUPS and mine personally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35906	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) Here you go, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35907	I've been waiting to see if any of the MPs present still want to speak, so let me say a few words. Dear fellow Members of the People, I would like to thank you on behalf of present colleagues from the Ministry of Education and on my personal behalf for your welcome remarks, suggestions, views and all that you have said about these two laws. I would like to thank those parliamentary groups who are here tonight, from left to right, the PUPS Parliamentary Group, the SPS-JS Group and the ZES Parliamentary Group, as well as the Forward Serbia and the SRS Parliamentary Group; I will do so when they are there, when we discuss the amendments. (President: G 17 plus. I'm sorry, Nikola, and thank the G17 Plus Group. I'll continue with the part of my colleague's presentation. I don't think we're here today to win this debate and what's heard today, what's on the rise of education and what's on the RS National Assembly. Education, because we have really responsible, serious, safe and facts, discussed two important laws, and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because it shows the justification of its existence and how much serious topics can be discussed in an analytical way, facts and arguments. This does not mean that I agree on a number of issues contained in these two laws, but, my God, it is part of political life and the democratic atmosphere and the character of the political system in which we all live and work. I'd like to say a few words. We had a discussion here tonight about two laws. One was really started in 2003 and has now seen his presentation at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and will be adopted, hopefully, in the day of the vote. My colleagues informed me that five governments, i.e. five governments and seven ministers, directly or indirectly, participated more or less in the preparation of this law. I'm not in a position to know how many of them have individually participated in the creation of this law, but I'm glad that today, at the end of that great road, we can realize that the law has its own quality. This was heard directly or indirectly from most MPs, and I hope that we will improve the content of the law to the amendments, because we have also said on the Committee on Education that we will accept certain amendments, and we will have another reading and reading in the Committee, and then in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in this plenary work, and there is no reason not to accept it. Dear colleagues, we have two major limiting factors in the education of the Republic of Serbia. One is our demographic situation, and the other is our economic situation. He's telling us nothing about education and the rest if there aren't any children. Serbia, unfortunately, is in a very difficult situation in demographic terms. We are already among the 10 oldest countries in the world, among the five in Europe, and as a state we should bring one strategy for the demographic development of Serbia or the demographic future of Serbia, in order to have a healthy tissue that will lead this Serbia to a better economic life and a safe future for us now, which will then be in our old age. The other thing is the economic situation. In the morning, I was talking about how much it stands out for education, and it's now an objectively limiting factor. When I mentioned that the gain of this debate was the gain for education, I thought that we would use this debate to seek to increase the allocations for education and that only the agreement of all of us on such an important subject could be for everyone, and most of all for the government, because the government is responsible, the government, the sign that for education, other than its importance, we should point out the allocation of larger funds. My colleague Ragush asked if we had provided all the grounds for the enforceability of this law? Yeah. Now, yes. We have both the normative and the human resources and the financial resources needed to implement these laws. We have the normative, you have seen this law, part of the solution will be solved by sublegal acts, and we have the financial basis for implementing these laws, no additional funding is needed, it now exists in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and we have the personnel, these are the people who work in education. It's really about competent people. When I said -- the financial side that we have is restrictive, we have an insufficient number of preschools and a difficult situation in local self-government, but they are free of anything if there are no children. The construction of these preschool institutions cannot be a sufficient factor to increase the coverage of children, i.e. when we build a preschool institution, additional financial resources are needed to equip them and obtain learning, creating conditions for the work of these institutions. Again, I refer to my colleague Ragush, asking if poverty affects the degree of education. Unfortunately, yes, but we want to improve the situation here, that through this law, right through the groups that have been listed, which have been problematic so far, we increase the coverage of children, so that through the coverage of children in preschool education, we can increase their number in the preschool programme, or in schools, and thus create a way of thinking about the importance of education, their personal education for the future. This is the 21st century, a century of knowledge, and everyone will try to have as much quality knowledge as possible, to give citizens the opportunity to pass that knowledge through proper education, to give all categories of the population the opportunity, thanks to the knowledge they possess, to find a suitable job and to provide themselves with a safe future. We don't have all the elements of the education system right. That's my opinion. We need to pass another law on adult education, to address the issue of informal education, the issue of additional vocational education, the question of lifelong learning, and at all levels, depending on the needs of the market and people's wishes, whether it's about secondary education, whether it's about secondary education, whether it's about general education, about increasing the number of gymnasiums, whether it's about higher education, about colleges, whether it's about the desire of people to learn to use their knowledge as a chance for success throughout their lives. That's our idea. I know that finance is a limiting factor, a limiting factor, but I don't want to deal with such a situation in advance, but I'm going to ask my colleagues, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to take appropriate steps and make the situation better than it is. In order to understand how many countries are investing in this area, respected colleagues and colleagues, I will repeat only a few data. For example, for a student apartment, students, from an economic price of 18.036 dinars, pay 3,900 dinars, which means 21.62% of the price, the rest is paid by the state. This applies to the entire category of high school students using student institutions. When it comes to students, the price is slightly higher – 18,548; students pay 5,060 dinars, which is 27.28%. The rest pays for the state. I want you to know one more thing about the number of scholarships that stand out every year. In 2007/08, the number of student scholarships was 5,811, the monthly amount was 5,100 dinars, which was approximately the price covering the cost of the student home service, the student, the same, where the proportion is held, but 5,811 was 2007/08, 2009/10 years already 8,411, which shows an increase in the number and the desire of the state to increase amounts because there was a price correction. When it comes to student loans, the number of beneficiaries of the loan is 2007/08. the year was 17.387, 2009/10 – 17.600. When it comes to student scholarships, this figure moves around 11.300, 2007/08 was 11.241, and this one, 2009/10 years – 11.303. I mentioned the structure of that price. We have financial opportunities at this time, but there is a need to increase the number of institutions, as I would like local self-governments, which are founders of pre-school institutions, to increase the number of pre-school institutions, just to solve some issues of children from the environment, which are, objectively, now less likely to make everything available to them. We've made the preschool prep program mandatory and it's given good results. As minister, I'd like preschool education to be all the care of the state and to be paid, but objectively at this point it's not possible. At this point, the state only pays for the preschool prep program, so this generation of children being prepared, that so-called. Zeroth grade, before they get into primary school. And at other levels, we have a small coverage, which most of you mentioned today. It's not just a good wish. They're free of a good wish. If it's only a good wish, then we're facing what you say, colleagues from the SRS, that it can only be one political pamphlet and a word about elections without having its essence. That's why we in the government are trying to do what we say and do. We are this year, 2009/10. years, tried to make the money that we have improve the situation in student and student standards. I haven't forgotten preschool, but I have to mention this. When it was the University, we paid a part of those costs, but thanks to that part of the cost, we managed to transfer 10,000 units, meaning equipment, furniture, beds, bed sheets and everything else, after the university ended, to student homes and dorms throughout Serbia. Before we put it back where it is now, these rooms were painted, floors changed and thus improved the conditions of students and students. We have done reconstruction of sanitary nodes in the House of Karaburma, in Kula A and B, we have done crafts work on 'Avala', at the University resort "Belgrade", reconstructed and adapted the House of "Ivo Lola Ribar" in Subotica and completed the completion of the House of Students of High Schools in the Kingdom, completed the House of Students in Valjevo, completed the completion and upgrade of the House of Students in Sremska Mitrovica, the restoration of the facade of the PTT High School of Students, the reconstruction and adaptation of the House of Students in Čupria and the rehabilitation and adaptation of the House "Petar Drapsin". I'm saying this to see that we're really doing it. The second thing is how much it appreciates which one of you, but it's important that children who use it are satisfied, that their parents are satisfied, that they have all the prescribed conditions, that what this law contains is applied in these institutions and, of course, to learn, that this is their basis for learning. We predicted this year to continue, with the funds that we have, either on our own, whether with the NIP, and to upgrade the House of High School Students in Prokuplje and to complete the construction of the Conventional Centre on Zlatibor, the construction of the Student Centre in Nis, the House of High Schools in Nis and the House of Students in Požega, as well as the construction of the Annex Home of the School of Agriculture in Svilajnc. These are our intentions and they're based on the possibilities at this point. There are other funds, they don't refer to this topic, to primary and secondary schools, through one EIB loan, and that's a wider story. My colleagues told me, about preschool education, we have an IPA project dedicated to preschool education and education, which starts in the fall, it is based on an action plan for children and for increasing the coverage of poor populations, and IPA for Roma assistants. Someone asked me, I think, colleague Ragush, is all this about reducing poverty? I mentioned it this morning, maybe some of you missed it, but one of the texts that we relied on in the construction of this law is the Serbian strategy in the fight against poverty. This is a way to fight poverty as a state. One more thing, since there are a few specific questions, so I don't forget. We will adapt the provisions relating to the powers of the Minority Council, i.e. their participation in education, relating to these two laws, to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. Wherever there are conditions for the use of minority language, where it has been established, of course minority advice will have its place and role. Where they don't exist, they're objectively out of place. Why am I saying this? This is about institutions where the least users are children from the territory where the facility is located, because they have the right to one meal, but when it comes to use, it's about children from the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia, and that's what I told some representatives of minority communities yesterday, when we talked about it. We will try tomorrow and the day after tomorrow to find the best solutions, of course, in accordance with the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. When it comes to Krnjev, I was there, and I saw and we'll see with the resolution colleagues from the second ministry, without even questioning the work of this school or the safety of children. I said about the Minority Council, we'll send an inspection and I'll see what's going on in Leskovac. That's what my colleague Pejcic mentioned. I'm not in a position to answer that question right now, but I hope we have that on Thursday. Unfortunately, the economic situation is difficult, and that is a fact, but this government is trying to improve the economic situation and to counter this crisis. Someone mentioned students who were the edges of existence. Unfortunately, today the possibility of finding an alternative way of obtaining adequate income through work, as in some other years, when most MPs here were younger. We also know that the system of values was such that it was meant that the student, quite logically, had to work and be his additional source of income, but it had to be recognised, objectively, that there was more work then, so it could be done. It's not the situation right now, but that's why we're trying to help students in different ways. It seems to me that a fellow member of the Prosperity Group has provided Serbia with one piece of information that is not correct. He said the ratio is 1:2. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Of the 213,000 students of all universities in Serbia, and there are about 150 and some thousands who have believed or not at state universities, about 108,000 students are in a state account, the state takes care of them. The state, really, as part of my ability, as minister I look forward to what it is, does everything, but I have to tell you that this year, as I would say, this cake that's just redistributed for higher education, because we had less passability in colleges, but we allocated those funds to master studies. Now we're going to give one piece of the resources for doctoral studies. Our idea is not to reduce, but to implement what is in the higher education work, for students and teachers, to give further, as we do in other areas. It's not our idea to be remembered as someone who did these and those jobs, but to be in the function of education. We did not promote a free textbook project to promote government policy, but to show that Serbia is a socially responsible state. Believe me, we have managed to create a situation for teachers to choose the best textbooks, to reduce the number of textbooks, because unfortunately for individual structures in teaching textbooks it is a very lucrative job. We cut the number of textbooks, cut the bag. This year we start with another generation. The quality of these textbooks must be better, the teaching programme determines the National Educational Council. The seducers have their place. There is an entire structure beyond us that we participate in the design of the education system and everything is dedicated to reducing costs. If we say - choose, teachers, best textbooks, and the textbook contains, say, one book and one workbook, then it's a different situation and less money than before, when one publisher had five books for the Serbian language. A parent, what, will come and just get a list of what he needs to buy for his child, and a child, you know, never or almost never refuses anything. When there is not enough money, it must always be found for children. We've been trying in different ways, and we're trying to make this system a better, more efficient, better, more competitive, to use other people's experiences, to promote our values, all of what we have as part of the education system, because there's no reason to lag behind others in any way. If I left anything out during today's debate, we have a debate on amendments. My colleagues and I will have two more readings of the amendments, we will have a committee, and we will agree together. Every amendment is welcome. I know that we have already accepted a number of amendments in the Committee and, in my opinion, made the law better, and when it comes to increasing the coverage of children, and when it comes to professional matters. One of you was talking about professional stuff. We have accepted much, and we are willing to make this law even better, so that it will show its justification in application. I'm sorry I extended your day, but since I've shared these parliamentary benches with you for seven and a half years, I know that only those who are dedicated to the subject and those who are the most persistent are left. For that, I especially thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-03-0.u35908	We thank you, too, Mr. Minister. We hereby conclude a joint principled single search on the Preschool and Education Law proposal, a bill on student and student standards and a bill on the validation of the Agreement between Serbia and Montenegro and the United States on International School Status in Belgrade. We'll continue tomorrow, Thursday, March 4, 2010, at 10 o'clock, at the same place.
