ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45688	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 75 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that 89 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I remind the MPs that on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and after opening the session and setting out the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate, the session of the National Assembly was defined by Article 286(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which says - that an extraordinary president, i.e. an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, has the right to the position of the 1st member, i.e. Article 286. to request a notice and an explanation from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations on issues covered by the rights and duties of these officials. Therefore, this right can also be achieved exceptionally at a session of the National Assembly orally in one address, for up to five minutes, on Tuesdays and Thursdays, immediately after the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving on to a further debate. I ask if any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, would like to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 286. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? National MP Nikola Krpić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45689	Dear presidents, colleagues and colleagues, there is not one of our tourists who has not gone to Greece or Thessaloniki that has not visited the cemetery of the dead in World War I. It is very nice and Mr. Mihajlovic, who takes care of that cemetery, is an example. I ask one question today, and I would like to ask that Prime Minister Cvetkovic and Mr Dinkic, Vice President, answer in writing, will there be funds in the new budget for the preservation and care of such sites and in our country that exist? I'm interested, because a group of citizens came to me, and I have a written clue and I can give you that letter, that for a cemetery in the King's Shootings in 1941, a record with names and last names should be placed so that no one can be nameless. It was shot there, as you know from historical data, 6,506, and many of these descendants are already dying because 69 years have passed. Such a mark still does not stand. Although architect Paja Krunic has done an idea project to mark the cemetery, there are no financial resources. Please also Prime Minister and Mr Dinkic, will there be funds in the budget, and which ministry is in charge of these things? Since the budget will be in front of the MPs in the next period, is that what he's thinking about? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45690	The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45691	Dear Madam Chairman, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People, I have a question for the Minister of Culture. In particular, when will the Ministry of Culture be engaged in the adoption of sublegal acts which, among other things, were adopted on 11 March 2010, as well as the adoption of laws on museums, which would put an end to various abuses, alienation and other types of domestic cultural goods? The illustration for this is my question is the recent event in Bor where museum exhibits have disappeared from the Museum of Mining, and this is my question just the tip of the iceberg of all the abuses that occur and that are daily on stage in Bor. This example just points to the bestiality of local G17 Plus officials. To remind you, there's both the city and the mining-topic base management of people from the same party, so the whole environment with the entire economy is under G17 plus's paw. On the occasion of this question, specifically, which I was talking about, the curator of the museum in Bora, Mr Dusan Kabić, who says - we are powerless to fight against the self-responsibility of irresponsible individuals in order to protect the museum space in the city park. If someone from RTB, as they say today, took some exhibits, should return them to the same place. It is also suspected of building on other people's land, without the prescribed permission, specifically related to the stage in the area. Another addition, or addition to the questions I asked – is the Minister of Culture aware of the events in Bor? Another question, what will the MUP do to preserve cultural goods, as well as solve this individual case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45692	The word is from Ambassador Jovan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45693	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, I just want to point out one thing that is both the interest and the problem of our country. For the first time, as far as I know, a delegation of the state of Belgium has asked to meet with Serbian parliamentarians. There was Mr. Vitomir Mihajlovic and I, and they appealed. I think it's a serious problem in both our country and the state must finally do something. Exactly the great departure of the people of the Roma and Albanian populations to the countries of Europe, we all know the economic situation and that they are returning. Readmissions have been signed by our country, the return of internally displaced persons from Europe, but nothing has been done to those people who have returned still live on the lowest margins, when Roma and the Roma community are in question throughout Serbia, and especially to KIM, which is an integral part, still, of the Republic of Serbia. I appeal to the state institutions to do something to stop this departure of the Roma community that is as it is, impoverished. Some projects must be made that will be affirmative and stop the Roma community in their country, in their cities, so that it can work, produce something and feed the family. By the way, I think the great dissatisfaction with the Roma community is on social issues. When it comes to Roma in Kosovo, I can tell you that they are on the lowest social, cultural and educational margins. I would especially like to apply how best to help Roma children attending elementary schools in Serbian. It is a programme of the Republic of Serbia, a programme implemented in certain enclaves, where the majority Serbian people are and where there are Roma people. Normally, according to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Education, the Roma people accepted the programme absolutely, but they do not have textbooks, do not have the most basic means to attend, and we know that we have passed certain laws in our Parliament that allow children to go to elementary schools for free. I would also like to ask and appeal, the state of health of the Roma community in Kosovo is disastrous. We all know that for many years they have lived on one part where lead dust is, where cancerous, where many have been ill, there are those who have died. I believe that assistants should be placed there, such as healthcare assistants set up in Serbia. I would also ask that mediators, such as healthcare mediators, education mediators, be placed here, should be put in Kosovo as well. I appeal to the institutions and the ministries, we just need these assistants for health care and mediators for education. I hope that my appeal to certain ministries will accept and do what it would be and the obligation that we have made in our democratic parliament. Finally, I would say this, to thank the Ministry of Environment, Mr Dulic, who approved one project to the Roma community, not in one place, but to open Roma recycling yards in all Serbia, so that we can hire Roma, so that we can enable this social programme, to strengthen the Roma community, so that it does not go to European countries and then return, and that is our country's problem. The project, which the ministry of Minister Dulic gave to the Roma community, I think will soon be alive, and that is the right direction for other ministries to work, in order to alleviate the social problem of the Roma community, so as not to go to other countries.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45694	The word has an MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45695	Today is 2,801 days since SRS President Vojislav Seselj is in custody at The Hague tribunal. Eight-year detention is something that is unrecorded in court practice in a civilized world, and in those eight years many have made the position of Dr Vojislav Seselj difficult. They have a particularly serious impact on the negative consequences that this detention left on his health. You know that we've been informing the public about his health, that it's very serious now. He also signed an agreement a few days ago to perform surgery on him, and he signed it because there is no alternative. Another option would possibly be not to sign such consent, so tomorrow, when, God forbid, something happens to him, the UN tribunal's representatives say it's because he refused the treatment he was offered. Of course, for eight years he has accepted all the treatments given to him by doctors in The Hague, and this has finally led to this deterioration of his health. Today, however, I would like to get an explanation and a notice of what is going on with the SRS's request to resolve Chief VMA Jevtic, who has banned Dr. Mijailovic from participating in the development of an expert report on the current health status of Dr. Vojislav Seselj. The second topic I want to talk about is the second announcement I want to receive, on 7 October this year, the SRS filed criminal charges against the president of the municipality of Zemun Branislav Prostrana and against Steve Zivanovic, former SRS councilman, for trading in parliamentary mandates. We have audio footage and a stenogram of talks has been handed over with criminal charges, which shows that Steve Zivanovic was trying literally to buy an SRS councilman, Sasa Subotic. He offered him a considerable material advantage that, according to him, moved somewhere at 100,000 euros, offered him a job for his sister, offered him a job for him. I will read one part of that stenogram, but also remind myself that in 2008, in September, when Tomislav Nikolic stole the 21st mandate of the SRS, we warned that if we were allowed to buy a mandate, if that evil came out of Pandora's box, that it would then become the principle of political action and that those who have committed themselves to political prostitution would seek to bring as many other Serbian citizens into that political prostitution as possible. Unfortunately, this is happening now, and therefore we have a situation for them to buy parliamentary mandates openly in Serbia. As this purchase of the mandate looks like, we can see from the stenogram. I repeat, if there is a need, we can also play an audio record. The same one, Steve Zivanovic, says, "We have two options, we have an offer on the table that cannot be rejected." And he says, "You're coming with me to a man to make a deal and get everything... "
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45696	People's MP, closely following your request for an explanation by the authorities, making sure that it is a public word, that they do not violate the rules applicable to freedom of speech, but at the same time other laws apply, before it is determined whether the text is recorded by authority or not, please, I cannot allow it, precisely because, if the criminal proceedings are ongoing, then we all need to make sure that it is not disturbed, especially not in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45697	I'd just like to remind you that it's not about some nameless man we can't talk about because he's not there, and it's about a councilman who's also a public official. The second thing, a few days ago, I asked Mrs. Malovic, the minister of justice, as long as it came with the processing of these criminal charges. It's something we'll insist on. I don't have to read any further from this stenogram, but I will say that I have the right to say that the guarantee of this was Tomislav Nikolic, that Steve Živanovic offered Saša Sutotic to take him directly to Tom, that he called him in front of him on the phone, that he had contacted Branislav Spacious Phone, that Steve Zivanovic's son had already been employed in Zemun municipality, where, in his words, he received a salary greater than 40,000 and did nothing. And, as he says, he was promised in the next period, after big money entered Zemun, that he would become some kind of director and have 100,000 dinars of salary and that he would not be obliged to do anything, as his son does either. So, please, Mrs Comic, I expect an answer from the minister of justice, from the police minister and from the government of the Republic of Serbia – until when will political prostitution and the purchase of parliamentary and parliamentary mandates in Serbia be allowed?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45698	The word is from Ambassador Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45699	Dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, my first question is to the prime minister, the determined prime minister, Mr Mirko Cvetkovic, did he perhaps prohibit the entry into the parliament of Foreign Minister Jeremic, because since that session of 26 July, we do not have the opportunity to see Mr Jeremic in this parliament, but we do not have the opportunity to hear a voice from the foreign minister in the last two months? In this autumn session, we have repeatedly appealed to this assembly that it is necessary to discuss KIM, the announced negotiations, the talks, first and foremost this parliament. That's not what I'm gonna do right now. Obviously these appeals do not mean anything to you, but I want to draw attention to the citizens of Serbia, and I want to address them also to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to ask the question once again – when will we discuss KIM, the announced negotiations, which are announced, above all by the President of the Republic, but also by RS Prime Minister-in-Office Mr Cvetkovic? Two and a half years since this parliament exists, we have been discussing KIM on July 26th, so, after two and a half years, which in my opinion is embarrassing, inadmissible, and what I think, but not only in my opinion, the RS government, the man who rules this country, and his name is Boris Tadic, is humiliating this assembly. Whether we belong to the government or to the opposition, we must not allow anyone as an institution to humiliate us in this way. For two and a half years, we haven't discussed it, and as far as I can tell, the government still intends to keep quiet about it and enters a very serious process. Let me remind you, both the government and the public, this is where we discussed July 26th on the Resolution, or the Declaration that we will submit to the UN. Support has been given here, and the ruling majority MPs voted in favour of the declaration. What happened next? You have not given the mandate to President Boris Tadic, the RS government, or Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, to withdraw the declaration from the UN session and to write the declaration to us by the EU, and our government and our president had the task only to agree or disagree. After that, there is also a pain in the ass, when we are in the lobby of the agreement and some negotiations with the KIM delegation, we absolutely do not know which direction it will go, whether or not the status of our province is being raised as a first question, and we also see from the statements of the highest officials and the EU and the United States that the status issue is absolutely resolved. According to us, it is a silent recognition of Kosovo. The government is entering the process of recognising Kosovo. If not, then the government has an obligation to come to this parliament and face those MPs and those political parties who claim this because if they do not come and do not intend to come, then it is in fact in the absence of the arguments that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has actually acknowledged that we are absolutely right. So I ask another question – will the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Serbia and authorised, I suppose, the Foreign Ministry come to this Parliament with a platform, inform MPs, national representatives and the public in which direction it will start and in which direction will develop the announced negotiations with the delegations or the KIM delegation? Don't make a mistake like we've done many times in the past. I will present only one piece, when the Austro-Hungarian anecdotes BiH within three days, all of the world's parliaments, i.e. European Parliaments, have been discussing the consequences of one such act, and in the Serbian parliament at that time a territorial organisation, which villages, now, of the Zlatibor district, will belong to one or another cut. We must not allow this irresponsibility and therefore ask the irresponsible government – when will he come to parliament and face the MPs, or the citizens of Serbia, who are clear that this government is entering the process of recognising the independence of KIM?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45700	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want to ask a question, ask for an explanation? (Yes) Messenger of the people Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45701	Madam Chairman, very clearly and loudly asked one question to the RS government and the finance minister at the time, and his deputy, Mr Cvetkovic, later. The question was -- the money from the sale of the "Mobtel" totaling a billion and almost 600m euros, from the "Robnik Houses of Belgrade" 360m euros, from the third "VIP" of the operator 300m euros, as spent, where were they spent, how were they spent and on whose orders were they spent and the dates when these funds were distributed to certain institutions, institutions or how they were already spent, etc.? That is a very important question to be answered. However, I received an answer from the Government, from one of the MPs sitting here, where he writes me a letter, to God, and answers. I didn't ask the MPs, but the government, the resolution finance minister and the other finance minister, because part of the charge was made in both government and government. The government's question was asked that the funds would go, as is now being talked about Telecom in infrastructure, and then a compromise was found not to transfer directly to the infrastructure, but to the budget, so that the budget would go to infrastructure facilities, and then the government and the resolution minister, who was the team's head, the finance minister, to determine the concessionary, suggested that part of the funds be transferred to other purposes, and that concession be given to the Horgos-Požega highway. Since they've visited highway construction, and now they're starting the same question, they're saying the same thing, I can't believe them, I'm asking, how are these assets worth 2,260,000,000 euros spent, on whose order, who spent them and the dates when the funds were transferred, and when the payment was made? The question is clear and loud. I ask the Prime Minister, Mr Cvetkovic, to be serious and to give an answer and to force his ministers to answer this question, not to be answered by some citizens. The first answer to this question was some Ljubodrag Ristic, I don't know who Ljubodrag Ristic is, and then some Tika Zivanovic, and he wrote me an answer on behalf of the Government, so now Mrs. People's MP, who sits there in parliament, also gave some answer that these gentlemen had nothing to do with the means, how they were spent, in which way and by whose order. So I ask again the question, I ask the Prime Minister to reason with certain ministers and send an adequate answer, if the funds have been sent to the budget, that from the budget, through the Treasury, the exact report on how the funds have been spent, for what purposes, where they have been transferred, by whose order, etc.? Please, this is a very serious question that I'm looking for answers to, and I'm not comfortable with any of the others. The answers come daily, but from people I don't even know who I haven't even asked. This gentleman who writes answers can write in private, that's their opinion and that they deliver to me every day, but I ask for an official response from the government and the Treasury, since the funds were transferred to the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45702	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) Since none of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups are answering for a word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of MP Riza Halimi. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Slavica Đukić-Dejanović, in addition to the representatives of the motionary Oliver Dulic, the Minister of Environment and Spatial Planning, called for the sittings of both Miladin Avramov and Bojan Đurić, State Secretary of the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning, Aleksandar Vesić, Danica Bacanović and Nebojša Pokimica, assistants of the Minister of Environment and Spatial Planning, Milan Batić, Director of the Republic Hydrometeorological Institute, Boris Stojkov, Director of the Agency for Physical Planning, Jelena Cvetković, Director of the Agency for Chemicals, and Momcilo Zivković, Director of the Environment Agency. We are moving to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Transparent Plan of the Republic of Serbia since 2010. Until 2020. You've received a bill from the government. You have received reports from the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in the basic procedure, total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time for debate by parliamentary groups is the following: the parliamentary group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 Plus parliamentary group - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the Parliamentary group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS-Vojslav Kostunica parliamentary group - 24 minutes; the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; an ambassador group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and a PUPS group - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group have the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the MPs' groups have authorised them to represent them by these points of the agenda: MP Sinisa Stamenkovic, MP of the PUPS; MP Djordje Milicevic, MP of the SPS - JS; MP Milan Lapčević, MP of the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica; MP Zoran Antic, MP for Serbia, MP Jovan Nesovic, MP for the G17 Plus, MP for Bojana Stanojevic, MP for the ZES Group and MP Dragan Stevanovic for the SRS parliamentary group. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does Proposer Oliver Dulic, Minister of Environment and Spatial Planning, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45703	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at first, I would like to congratulate Parliament and you as MPs on yesterday. Yesterday, the EU Council of Ministers forwarded Serbia's bid to the European Commission, and I think we are all aware that this is one big step on our path to the EU. There's a huge job ahead of us, but there's also a huge job behind us, and yesterday's confirmation that we've done a big job together on the reforms of our entire society system. Of course, in the future, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be one of the places where the fundamental and deep reforms of this society will take place, and in advance I want you to be as successful as you have been, especially in the last year. Today I have the honour and pleasure to present the spatial plan of the RS as one of the important strategic documents that it sees in Serbia in the future, sees it, I am sure, in the future in the family of European peoples as a modern, democratic, well-organised state, in which conditions are created that our citizens live much better and much more satisfactorily. For the first time in its history, Serbia has joined the development of a spatial plan as a sovereign state and thus demonstrated its statehood. Nationality means not only to determine and protect borders and bring the Constitution, but it means just to look ten years into the future, to determine a vision of the development of a community and to put citizens in the view of progress for everyone and for each individual. The spatial plan, which is in front of you today, is the roof document of all planning documents and development strategies in all sectors and at all levels of government in Serbia. Its role is to be a link between previous generations to future generations and links between the past and the future of this generation. Serbia's infrastructure development is our key priority, and it is being propped through the overall spatial plan of RS. I mean not only the physical infrastructure, but the institutional infrastructure that is so much needed for Serbia to implement all necessary reforms. The existence of a spatial plan in every developed democratic community tells us that it has reached a certain level of political maturity, the maturity of planning its future, not that others are planning it, and that in space and time it sets out the direction of development and the direction it will move. We had a difficult task ahead of us, which is to combine and bring together all development strategies and a huge number of planning documents that have been brought into Serbia in the past and put it into a new time horizon. The essence that extends throughout the spatial plan is the necessity that many segments of our society continue to be reformed in order to get all necessary physical, biological and any other factors for the development of our society in the RS space. Also, by drawing up this spatial plan, the Republic ends its part of the obligation, which implies that a roof document be adopted with which all lower documents, which are primarily local and regional spatial plans, must be harmonised. Unfortunately, in the past, local self-government and regions have not brought their own spatial plans, explaining this by the fact that not even RS has fulfilled its share of obligations. In this way we entered into a spiral of disrespect for the law that is being passed in this congregation and that must be broken today. I am sure that, following today's plan, many local self-governments will understand that the deadlines that exist, especially in the Law on Planning and Construction, must be respected and that Serbia must finally become a country that is covered by adequate spatial and regulatory plans throughout its territory. The spatial plan defines the spatial conditions for directing economic development, i.e. defining a framework for Serbia's even regional development. Special attention, as you could see in this plan, is dedicated to rural development and the need for it to be fully refreshed. As a society, we have a lot of interest in making villages desirable for our lives, not emptying out and the population moving to cities, whose infrastructure has long been too tense to serve all those living in them. Insisting on better infrastructure, and we repeat, especially the infrastructure equipment of the village and the functional integration of the village with urban continents, this spatial plan has a fundamentally strong demographic, economic, social and cultural aspect. This plan defines integrated planning solutions for environmental, economic, social and institutional development. This implies that in all areas and sectors in the long term, territorial capital and the comparative advantages of Serbia, which are extremely large and which are listed in the spatial plan. What is important to stress is that the creation of a spatial plan means the recording and alignment of many development strategies. Many of them, unfortunately, did not live in practice, precisely because there was no clear vision of the development of the region, the arrangement of space and the use of the comparative values of that space. After adopting this spatial plan, we are sure that many of these strategies will become reality and represent an engine in these areas. The spatial plan defined three basic tasks. When we entered the design of a spatial plan, we focused on them. The first task was to define problems and plans to protect what is the interest of all citizens of Serbia, for nature, natural goods and resources, for cultural heritage and values that mark the identity of Serbia and its components, as well as for the protection of the environment with all its elements and the precondition for successful development. The second task of the spatial plan is to propose proposition, rules and measures to regulate Serbia's territory and its components, given all the problems of the spatial arrangement that the state has faced so far. The third and most important task of the spatial plan is to offer planning solutions offering a chance for Serbia's successful and sustainable development over the next 10 years, based on principles of rationality, social cohesion and environmental sustainability. Thanks, once again we want to do this, the work of a huge number of experts from different areas, we have succeeded, I'm sure of it, and I hope that at the end of the debate on this spatial plan he will get your support and become an integral part of our rights. The concept of plans and plans based on a system of harmonised principles are presented to you in a spatial plan and I will only mention them very briefly. The first principle is natural and environmental. Nature is the cornerstone of the development of every human community and requires a careful relationship, especially when it comes to a nature that is not renewable. The environment, which represents a cultured part of the nature in which Serbian citizens live and work, is a prerequisite for successful development, because it reflects a picture of regulation and rationality. The second principle is the revitalised population and human capital. Serbia faces a huge demographic problem, with serious threats to the future. This spatial plan was faced with the threat and tried to offer a solution. The population, unfortunately, is moving from smaller places to bigger ones in Serbia, and there is not enough natural growth that involves restoring our people. For this reason, the purpose of the spatial plan is to ensure a sufficient degree of development of all parts of Serbia that will ensure that these environments in which there is a huge demographic problem today are economically and socially acceptable enough to keep the population alive. This will certainly lead to demographic revitalisation being carried out in a large part of Serbia, especially where the picture is the most controversial, which is the east, south and west of the country. The third principle is a sustainable economy. Today, the principle of a sustainable economy, which is carefully related to nature, natural resources, the environment and social problems, is increasingly being established. The fourth principle is decentralisation. The spatial plan sees our community, or settlement, regardless of size and character, as a nuclearus of development. In order for it to be able to play its part in development, it will be necessary to continue the decentralisation process, so that every settlement, municipality or city or region in the future will play a role, right and responsibility in development. The fifth principle is politicnitrism. In this respect, Serbia's spatial plan devotes special importance to cities as development engines. At the same time, the city must be given more jurisdiction, rights and responsibilities for rural settlements in its environment, with which it makes a functioning continent and also solves a large part of the problem in rural areas. The sixth principle that this spatial plan recognises is the principle of integration. In order to enable greater steps and development projects, it will be necessary to focus on functional support for municipalities and cities around major projects, which is the concept of internal integration. Border areas should be enabled to connect functionally with neighbours across borders. The regions need to be facilitated by interregional co-operation, and large systems, i.e. rivers such as Danube, Sava and Tis, and the Carpathian mountain system should be used for cross-state integration based on common strategies. Serbia's spatial plan clearly defines five main goals. The first objective is more balanced regional development and greater social cohesion. Regional differences today in Serbia are among the largest in Europe. According to national income, as an indicator of development, the difference between individual municipalities goes from 1:30, while the differences between regions are even 1-7. The approach that determines Serbia's spatial plan includes a politrical network of settlements and functional urban areas, consisting of urban centres and settlements within 45 minutes away from the urban centre. Today, Serbia is covered by 60% of the territory under functional urban areas, and the plan of this spatial plan is to make it 80% by 2012, if, of course, urban accessibility is improved by local traffic connections and infrastructure. The specific problem dealing with Serbia's spatial plan is the spatial distribution of the population, as the deployment of our population is extremely inappropriate – migration to the centre, ageing of the population and an unfavourable demographic structure are the most serious problems of the country. I said that again because it is the focus of our attention. So projects in those parts of the country where there are the biggest problems, such as the East, the South and the West, should make it possible to correct the demographic situation. The second objective of the spatial plan is to ensure regional competitiveness and accessibility. The regional differences in Serbia's natural potentials are enormous. Viewed by the volume of exports per capita, central, eastern Serbia lags behind the rest of the country. Key development regions are mainly related to Corridor 10. Not by any chance, undeveloped areas do not have adequate transport, rail and other infrastructures and represent areas which therefore have far less comparative advantages. There is a need to strengthen the demarcated links between these areas. It is also necessary to invest in infrastructure, in order for these areas to be linked to more developed centres and through them to achieve their own development. In that sense, this spatial plan has defined also travel priorities. First of all, the construction of the second half of the highway in the length of 107 km Horgos-Novi Sad, the construction of the Nis highway and the borders with Bulgaria near Dimitrovgrad, the construction and construction of the Leskovac highway and the border with Macedonia near Presevo. Completing part of the bypass around Belgrade, which is part of Corridor 10 and subsequent construction of the sector of C Bubanj Potok-Boleč-Starčevo-Pančevo-East-Pančevo-North, along with the construction of a full highway profile on sectors A and B, by completing the highway bypass around Subotica, i.e. Ipsion Krak. The state road of the first row of borders with Romania-Vršac-Pančevo-Belgrade, the state road of the first row of Belgrade-Cacchak-Požega-Arilje-Ivanjica-Senica-Senica and the borders with Montenegro, the state road of the first row of the Nis-Prokuplje section, the state road of the first row of Pojate-Kraševac-Kraljevo-Cačak continues to Požega-Užice and the border with BiH, as well as the completion of the construction of part of the state road of the Batocina-Kragujevac section. The third objective is to make sustainable use of resources, protect and improve the environment. This goal consists of several segments, among which the first one is – focusing on the points at which the environment is particularly endangered. The second priority is to manage the risks of natural disasters and technological accidents. In third place, but not less important than the previous two elements, there is a need to generally improve waste management, to form regional waste management systems, to form environmental management systems and to clear Serbia in a literal sense of a huge number of non-sanitary and wild dumps lying on its territory. The fourth objective of the spatial plan is to protect, orderly and sustainable use of natural and cultural heritage and landscapes. In this segment, the spatial plan highlights the link between protection and improvement of natural heritage on one side, protection of cultural identity as the basis for the identity of the region and municipalities on the other side, and their impact on the quality of the tourist offer on the third side. Tourism, as an important Serbian development route, must develop as a result of a regional threat to municipalities that are not able to achieve enough on their own in this area. The fifth objective is to promote spatial functional integration in the environment, which includes cross-border integration on a functional basis, as well as interregional and trans-state integration. Two basic directions and principles of space-functional integration in the environment are to go in the direction of the EU and move towards the east, i.e. to make much better economic integration with Russia. Monitoring the implementation of the plan, i.e. improving the spatial development of the Republic of Serbia, will take place through a system of indicators of Serbia's spatial development. Controlling the achievement of the latest indicators will also raise the issue of any changes and additions to the spatial plan. The validity of this plan expires in 2020 and, when drawing up a new plan, all those solutions and projects that have not been achieved will be reviewed, as well as their further justification. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sure you understand that the spatial plan is one of the important segments on the way to achieving everything that is our common vision, regardless of the political differences, regardless of the difference in the meaning of the region from which we come. I'm sure each of us shares all those values that are deeply woven into this spatial plan. They are fundamentally concerned with the better lives of our people. There is no better life for our people without respect for the goals, principles and roles of this spatial plan. I'm sure you're all deeply aware of that. For this reason, I would like to thank you for your patience and ask you to support the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia after this debate today.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45704	Before I ask if the officials of the committees want a word, based on Article 90(2) and Article 87, I am informing the National Assembly that today's working break will be in the usual time, from 14.00 to 15.00 hours, and that we will also work after 18.00 hours, no longer than 20.00 hours. In the extension, the working day of the Assembly will be completed with some natural continent that the debate will give us today, through discussion and debate on this important topic. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? National MP Siniša Stamenkovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45705	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the Honorable Chairman, gentlemen of fellows, the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia sets out the first and right long-term vision of Serbia's development and paves the way for the organisation of our country's space. This plan sets out all priorities that the state should achieve, first by 2014, and later by 2020. Our parliamentary group believes that the main objective of this document, above all, is to reduce regional competitiveness, and then to achieve an active integration of smaller and larger cities with the entire rural composition of our country, on a completely different basis than so far is to be achieved. The fact is that with the adoption of a spatial plan is quite late, but the reason why the solutions in this plan first needed to be brought into line with real life. We believe that the basic settings of the spatial plan are correct, realistic and rational and that it is very good that the main accent is put on decentralisation and reducing pressure from internal resources, including democratic pressure on Belgrade. In our experience and professional routine in drawing up these plans in the current working century, we have recognised a very difficult but also important dimension of Serbia's spatial plan, which is now urgent and mandatory for this plan to create conditions for all other cities of Serbia and Serbia to develop in parallel with the development of their capital work. We are aware that such an ambitious plan can only be achieved if the necessary funds are provided, above all for capital investments, such as the Belgrade subway, corridors 10 and 7 and the capital investments of each Serbian city individually. Serbia simply has no time, no opportunities, no justification for any experiment, but only for the speedy and intensive implementation of Serbia's spatial plan, as we bring it. We want all of us to remember together the most important parts of the plan, and above all, that starting in 2010, the construction of the road to Montenegro begins, that it is expected to end and surrender to use the highway to Hungary in 2011, to expect completion and surrender to use the highway to Bulgaria in 2012. Mandatory completion of all plans and documents for the entire territory of Serbia, allowing every city, village, municipality, to know where to build a road, where a hospital, where a park, where an industrial zone or something else can be built by the end of 2011. The end and surrender to the use of the highway to Macedonia by the end of 2012, the construction and use of these transfers to use six regional airports, the construction and activation of all 13 ports in the Danube, the creation of all conditions for the city's status to be obtained: Kikinda, Vršac, Pirot, Prokuplje and Bor. We believe that the public debate on the proposal for a spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia is going on quite briefly and that some other institutions, universities and experts should be involved. However, we appreciate that the central settings are well worked out, and above all, our future regions, as well as the main directions of further development, and that all the time the development of the plan should focus on making the plan as soon as possible, and then removing any gaps that will be discussed both in principle and through a large number of amendments that have been submitted to the text of the spatial plan. Our population and citizens of Serbia have a special opportunity to consider and adopt the second most important legal act of the Republic of Serbia, following the Constitution, i.e. the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2010 to 2020. The plan sets out the most important goals of further maintenance, arrangement and improvement of Serbia's spatial plan and development. We believe, as citizens of this country, who in their working century had the opportunity to create, participate in the adoption and apply more spatial plans, that we now have a comprehensive spatial plan for Serbia's development, based on a number of objectives. Let us remind ourselves: first, balanced regional development with significantly improved social cohesion; second, regional accessibility and targeted competitiveness of all; third, planned and sustainable use of all natural resources, with a better protected and improved environment than ever; fourth, responsible and highly sustainable use of natural resources, cultural heritage and natural areas; fifth, functional integration of the spatial and natural environment of the Republic of Serbia and all its far-known resources; sixth, integration of cross-border, regional and interregional economic, economic, agrarian and tourism co-operation with other participants; seventh, strengthening all forms of protection of local administrations and cities in preserving spatial definition from demographic and economic and economic objectives. The proposal for a spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia, in our opinion, covers all the basics, from the area of special purpose, through spatial areas, then units of local self-government, and urban plans at the level of the Republic, all in line with the baseline of the current state of social and economic development, to the future modern projection of the state of Serbia. The debate in principle, and we are certain that the debate in the details of the amendments will be insufficient to shed light on all the basic aspects and principles of municipal, regional and republican development provided for by this law. The proposal, acting under the obligations of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, replaced with this spatial plan the last spatial plan of 1996. As a participant in the development of all modern Serbia's spatial plans, we have been drawing up basic solutions and a strategy for Serbia's spatial development since 1996, with a projection by 2009, and beyond, with a projection for 2020. It is understandable for us to now establish a completely new system of planning solutions and proposition that regulates protection, maintenance, close regulation and further development of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. We have only one concern, and that is whether our citizens will necessarily be required to respect the adoption of even regional continents and the strictest respect for balanced regional development, and the government must meet all expectations in this request. We think that the proposal for a new spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia has managed to establish a correlation between physical and economic and social development, and on the principles of a realistic and rational spatial plan that cannot survive without the key components that we respect, respect, support, and that is the obligation of spatial planning to encourage and link the public and private sectors in all areas of economic, economic and particularly social development, which is the essential orientation of our political orientation. Secondly, we fully support the strengthening of innovation and high-tech solutions in all areas of spatial planning, and above all in the area of further development of Corridors 7 and 10, as well as air traffic, further development of agrarians and tourism. Thirdly, we are pleased with the proposal for a solution that achieves a good horizontal and vertical link between the public sector and the real sector of the economy, and in the areas of social, health, education and cultural services, above all, to strengthen them and make them far more accessible and efficient for the needs of all citizens. Fourthly, we advocate an even more critical and stricter assessment, as well as a review of all existing standards, normatives that are not entirely adapted to local and regional needs, and therefore local opportunities. Full respect must also be given to the rational, professional and well-founded norms and standards proposed by the local administration for this construction in Serbia's definite spatial plan solution. Fifthly, it is clear that, above all, our political option and all of Serbia's pensioners propose that this plan, in addition to the solutions already given, propose new ones to strengthen support for disfellowshipped and poor social groups and groups, and through the process of social security and giving, then through the decentralisation of republican competences and through significant strengthening of the responsibility of local self-government by an important repair of the material base and the basis for strengthening and dominant support to vulnerabilities and groups. The sixth, spatial plan of Serbia will speed up the answer to all issues raised from the return of property owned by local self-government and Serbian cities, which I believe is one of the postulates of this spatial plan. Seven, the oldest group of citizens, pensioners, disabled people and addicts, have a special position on the proposed rationalisation of the health care network, on proposals for establishing a new network of health facilities, new networks of educational institutions, new social protection networks and new networks of targeted and rational supply. We are aware of the needs of a more economical organisation of this new spatial schedule of health institutions, social protection, but we propose that decentralisation and further development of this system be adapted as much as possible to the needs of the oldest generation, both young and young. The oldest citizens of Serbia are extremely interested in the further development of a social housing that must be brought into line with urban and rural policies, both at local and state level. Promoting the development of a new social housing system for the needs of our youngest citizens will significantly relax and relieve the complex situation of the housing needs of our citizens, including those of the oldest. It is a complex situation in rural development that stems from the fact that our rural population is the oldest in the world and that the restoration of the population in marginal and devast areas depends only on the real, principled solutions of the state and we, as the oldest citizens of this country, think that the proposed solutions are good but not definitive, and we are ready to place all our available capacities, knowledge and experience into the function of building the right system, new rural policies and new democratic policies necessary for all the principles of social inclusion and social cohesion that must restore the village through this spatial plan. We believe that the proposal for a spatial plan of Serbia from 2010 to 2020 basically provided final answers and proposals, as well as for identifying existing strengths and potentials, and for weakness and limitations and for all developmental directions covering elements of such a significant document. The PUPS parliamentary group believes that the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia covers all the long-term foundations of the organisation, maintenance, use and arrangement of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. All main urbanisation routes and all the basic criteria of the given arrangement of space, settlements, environments and Serbia's environment are covered. We believe that all the principles of the plan and all the criteria for the use of natural resources are protected, especially the resources of the environment. The design of the spatial plan also respected the conditions for the protection and use of protected natural resources, areas of special importance, national parks, etc. The principles and principles of further development of the Basic Infrastructure Systems Corridor are particularly well processed. The PUPS parliamentary group will actively participate in the analysis of the solutions offered by this strategic document and will contribute to the adoption of a law on the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45706	Twelve minutes and 20 seconds used time by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Before I give my word to the next speaker, I would like to inform you that the authorised representative of the LDP parliamentary group, MP Zoran Ostojic. Now he has the word of Parliamentarian Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45707	Madam Chairman, Honorable Ministers, People's MPs, we believe that the spatial plan next to the budget is the most important document, the most important law that the National Assembly should adopt. The proposal for a spatial plan and on the expert side is a fundamental document, a quality done, but there is a problem that it relies on Serbia's current divisions, to administrative districts. The problem is, Mr. Minister, which is also what with professional law proposals we should always return to politics, or political problems, issues, because these political issues have not been resolved in a timely manner. This is, unfortunately, a problem with a spatial plan, but it's not your fault, it's not your fault, it's not your ministry's fault, but you have to understand that this is a matter of extreme importance to us and that it would not be good if the spatial plan and the whole logic of the spatial plan, one strategic document, an important document, and it was brought to ten years, if it relied on illogical administrative districts. We have therefore submitted an amendment that I will talk about later, but I want to tell you, to convince you, which is why it is not good to base a spatial plan on existing administrative districts, and in the end I will propose a solution, which if you accept, in which case we will be able to vote on this spatial plan. You didn't talk for a minute about administrative districts, you talked about municipalities, cities and regions. However, it cannot be clear what you mean when you talk about regions, whether they are AP, whether they are statistical regions, whether they are administrative environments, whether they are future administrative regions or what regions they are. With careful reading of the proposal for a spatial plan, we were able to establish that the whole spatial plan was built on the logic of the administrative districts. We find that one wrong solution. For us it's understandable, I suppose that was a solution, not to assume an evil intention, but probably done because it's easier to treat 29 administrative districts, but 170 and some municipalities, or local self-government units. That's probably the reason. It is extremely harmful to build a development document on the logic of the 1992 regulation on administrative environments, which does not take into account economic arguments at all, environmental arguments, reasonable arguments. That's the problem. Lawyers know that Valtazar Bogisic wrote in the property code, I mean the 1888 law of Montenegro, that, as the coat of arms is born, time does not correct. I don't know if that's the case in medicine, Mr. Minister, but it's legal science, and that's the way it is in life. So we can't base a regional development plan on administrative districts. You have even listed in this document at the regional organisation of the Republic of Serbia that the Republic of Serbia has three levels of public administration: central i.e. Republic, province and municipal. That is correct, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. As you know, administrative districts are not a constitutional category. I know that consciously many people say things that have no basis in the Constitution and often say that changing the boundaries of administrative districts is necessary to amend the Constitution, but of course that is not true. Administrative districts are not even regulated by law, administrative districts are regulated by the government of the Republic of Serbia regulation. Furthermore, you say in this document: "The analysis of the original and established competences suggests that the environments do not have any additional attributes of the EU-specific regions. Although they have municipalities in their composition, the districts do not form a form of territorial decentralisation with political and administrative competences. "But in the same document, you say this: "For smaller territorial segments of the area, already existing units in the organization of the state, the administrative district have been taken." That's the problem, since the district, as it stands here in this document on another party, are not forms of territorial organisation, these are the district centers of the state administration. Even administrative districts lose the meaning of their existence because there are several more inspection services within the administrative districts, but, as you know very well, some inspection services have been transferred to local self-government units, and some inspection services have been transferred to the AP Vojvodina, on the territory of the province. You mentioned certain things in your address, you talked about reform, about decentralisation, about economic development. You also talked about this document offering plans, and you also mentioned the word " rationality". That is why I ask you, Mr. Minister, to rewrite this error jointly in this document, that the logic of this document does not rely on administrative districts. In that case, allow us to vote for this very important document. I'm so lucky that you're from Subotica, that you were the head of Northoba County, and that's why I don't have to explain to you in detail where Subotica is, where Kanjiza is, where Sainta, where Ada is, where Baka Topola is, where Mali Ijoš is, you know very well. For the sake of the public to say this time, these local self-governments are on the territory of Backa. Senta, Ada and Kanjiža have been in the North Danube Management District for 18 years, regardless of the fact that these municipalities cannot and do not make up one unique area with Kikind at all, but make up one unique area with Subotica, Backo Topol and Mali Iđiša. It's both economical and ecological, it's so infrastructureal, it's so healthy human logic, because it's simply all these municipalities are on the territory of Back. Someone changed Tisa's course 18 years ago, and those three municipalities were transferred to Banat for purely political reasons. If we had changed that harmful decision together, that harmful regulation in the last ten years, we wouldn't have a problem with the spatial plan today, but unfortunately that's not the case. Just a few examples to give you, which is what I base my claim on when I say that this whole document was made based on administrative districts. For example, when it comes to logistics centres, it is said that when criteria and the location of logistics centres are determined, account is taken of the management district's headquarters. So this is about very important practical things, it's not about political matters, it's about national matters, it's about economics and economy. It doesn't matter where the logistics centres are and it's not acceptable that logistics centres will be located, that the location of logistics centres will be determined based on the headquarters of the current administrative districts. It is also listed in industrial parks and industrial zones. You even explained that the materials in printed and digital form were passed to all units of local self-government across the boards of administrative districts. It is said of the economic, i.e. in this document that the main objective is to establish an efficient regional organisation and a coordinated regional policy that responds to EU recommendations. The EU's recommendation is certainly not that we are changing river flows, the EU's recommendations certainly do not meet the criteria that have been adopted for political reasons, or drawn 18 years ago, because this prevents even regional development and at all the development of these units of local self-government, because it is simply not in the interest of Kickindi to develop Kanjiža, Sainta and Adu, because these are the edge areas of the North-Bandish Management District in Bacak. That's why we think this logic is as harmful as it gets. We have a lot of arguments here that I wouldn't like to make on this occasion, because you're very familiar with matter and you know exactly what I'm talking about. I'd just like to tell you in the end what this amendment of ours is about. We could choose between three solutions. One solution was that we were voting against this spatial plan, which we didn't want and we didn't want. The second solution was to submit amendments to every sentence in which the administrative district is mentioned, but in that case we would have to submit at least 60 amendments, which I don't think would be complete. The third solution was, and we chose that solution, to propose an amendment to Article 5 of this Law. Article 5 discusses that the spatial plan will be aligned with the state of social and economic development of the Republic of Serbia every five years. We have proposed here a new position that suggests that if the Law on Territorial Organisation or the Regulation on Administrative Areas or the Regulation on the nomenclature of Statistical Territorial Units is amended, that if that system is amended on which you base the entire document, in which case the Government will propose amendments and additions to this spatial plan to the Assembly within a year. We believe that the deadline of one year is completely reasonable. We would, of course, want these changes to be done even shorter, say, within six months, but we have seen that there is no shorter than a year in the spatial plan. That's why we suggested in this case a year, and a five-year deadline would certainly be too long and it would simply not be complete to leave that deadline. I think it would be perfectly correct for the ministry to accept this amendment, which doesn't lose anything. There's some conjecture here. So if that system changes, then the spatial plan will change. I hope that by the end of the year we will have the amendment to the regulation on administrative environments, because it is a coalition agreement, but it is already a political issue and I would not like to talk about it now. I ask Mr. Minister to accept this amendment and we can discuss this amendment at any time and allow us to vote in favour of a spatial plan, which is really modern and that would be rational. This proposal is currently not rational for these reasons.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45708	14 minutes and 45 seconds of time have been used by the president of the parliamentary group. The word is Gjorge Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45709	Mrs. Komic, the Honored Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, is ahead of us with the Proposal for a Law on the Spatial Plan and, among other things, in the opening presentation, it is a single roof and strategic document, I would say it is a systematic legislative proposal which is one basis for the future development of the Republic of Serbia. The legislator very rightly estimated that in the time period, from the moment the last spatial plan was adopted, from 1996 to today, there have been more significant changes, both economic, social and political, so the ecological environment changed, and not only in our country, but throughout Europe. All of these are justifiable reasons for the conclusion that a new spatial plan needs to be adopted. What is being achieved by the proposal for a law on the spatial plan? Therefore, the actual situation and relevant factors affecting the development of the Republic are identified, as well as the potential, limitations, possibilities and obstacles to the further development of the Republic and certain parts of the Republic. This is all the basis to define the basic strategic objective of spatial development and to define the priority. This legislative proposal requires one support, it is a document of a more lasting value, and it is certain that a high degree of consensus, regardless of the current government, guarantees that the development issue will deal with all governments in continuity in the next time period, i.e. both these and all subsequent governments of the Republic of Serbia. I believe that this spatial plan should be followed by a Serbian development strategy, which the government of the Republic of Serbia is already announcing. For me, these are two complementary documents: a strategy for Serbia's development and the bill we're talking about today. They can be one strong support for future development projects, and when it comes to regions, and when it comes to individual industrial branches, and when it comes to cities and municipalities. What I also want to say is that it is very important that, as we could hear, representatives of the professional and scientific public participated in this legislative proposal, that this legislative proposal went through a consensus within the ministries, therefore, that political factors participated. What is also important is that there was a broad public debate through a statement by Serbian citizens about the legal proposal itself, so this roof and strategic document that we are talking about today. We believe that it is extremely important that this document has gone through a broad debate, because, for example, for cities and municipalities through this proposal, fate is determined in the long-term time period, and perhaps any, even the slightest rash or thoughtless move can mean one agony and lagging behind in each respect, primarily in social, demographic, economic, infrastructure and cultural. It is good that there was the possibility of making remarks and thus correcting the negative elements that have been observed. I would like to express my belief that the motions have been properly approached when it comes to proposals and suggestions that could be heard through public debates held over the past period of time. I come from a city whose suggestions and suggestions are respected, i.e. they found their place in this extremely important planning document. A few illustrations in favor of this finding. So, Western Serbia is, looking at the document that is in front of us today, I would say realistically, when it comes to the assessment of the situation and when it comes to the choice of future development directions. It is well seen that our potential in agriculture is based on the processing industry, the development of tourism, traffic and other infrastructures. As far as orientation is concerned, we think that an operationalisation that would lead to the realization of the objective should be carried out in the development strategy. What's our problem when it comes to the Valley end, and I think that's the problem with the Loznica and the Whispers? We had a very advanced metal processing, and Shabac and Loznica chemical industry. Today, due to many changes in the area of the former Yugoslavia, today in Serbia and Serbia itself, there was one, I would say large disindustrialisation, a strong processing industry has disappeared, and when it comes to metal processing and when it comes to agriculture. It is today a limiting factor of our society and it is certain that we need to take action, especially to restore industry in agrarian and develop new technologies and on this basis new industries. When it comes to infrastructure development, and the minister said in the opening statement that it is a priority, there is no economic without infrastructure development, it is clear today. So, when it comes to infrastructure development, looking at the whole document, looking at Western Serbia and the Valjev region, first of all, I want to say that the development routes in the road network are well placed, that priorities are located. When it comes to the end I mentioned as an example, the southern Adriatic has an absolute priority, four and a half million people live around it, and the city of this traffic station will play a multiple role: it will attract investors, contribute significantly to the development of tourism, and large shopping centres, such as Belgrade, Novi Sad, or Vojvodina, will become closer to those products from the agrarians we have and with which we have a chance in the future. When it comes to the railway network, it is my pleasure to reaffirm once again the importance of Corridor 10 and Corridor 10 today is definitely a national issue, a question of national importance and to confirm that it is justified to continue construction of the Valjevo-Loznica railway. So I set only one example, wanting to show that the promoter had a hearing about suggestions and suggestions that could be heard from certain cities and municipalities. Valevo, for example, is a city whose objections and suggestions the promoter had heard about. As for Serbia's development in the future, I think the areas of underdevelopment, empty space from the population and industry are well seen, but also some developmental prospects in those areas. We see this spatial plan as a document that obliges Serbia to develop more uniformly all parts of the Republic and the need for practical measures and incentives by the Republic to achieve this. When we look at development goals in areas, I think it precisely defines strategic orientation, but the value of this plan is that it has a high degree of concreteisation through each area and I think that's the additional quality that this legislative proposal has. Looking at the whole document, the whole legislative proposal, I have to say that I think we finally have one document that, looking at the perspective, looking into the future, contains everything we're going to do in the next period of time, both this government and all of the next governments of the Republic of Serbia. We don't want to believe that this is just a list of good wishes within the SPS-JS Parliament Club. We also believe that the adoption of this legislative proposal will take a huge step forward towards introducing order into Serbia's construction and urbanism, which is of paramount importance. This means that it will be possible to get certain building permits quickly, but that it will also be clear and precisely defined what is possible and where to build. That's what we expect from this bill as well. So, keeping in mind everything this legislative proposal contains, that it actually covers the issue of all development strategies, we view this legislative proposal and the document as one obligation and this, I said, and all the next governments of the Republic of Serbia and institutions, the obligation of all of us, or the obligation of all Serbian citizens. The SPS-JS Parliament Club accepts this legislative proposal in principle, of course, we are ready for a quality discussion on details. We are prepared to discuss any amendments that will likely be submitted. I guess there'll be quality suggestions. Everyone will make specific suggestions and suggestions from their cities and municipalities. I suggest that the proposer himself of this legislative proposal examines them to have a final version, i.e. to have as high-quality legislation as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45710	Ten minutes and 30 seconds have been used for the mandated representative of the parliamentary group. The People's MP Jovan Nesovic came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45711	Dear President, Mr. Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, we have before us a law on the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia, and this is our constitutional obligation as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to pass a law on the spatial plan, which is an obligation arising from the Law on Planning and Construction, which this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopted last year. What I need, I think, is at the beginning to say that the valid spatial plan in RS was brought far back in 1996, 14 years ago. Since then, major economic changes have occurred, institutional changes, political changes in the state of Serbia, changes in the environment, changes in ecology, changes in resource management, and it seems to me that it was high time that all these changes were made, as well as certain demands made before society, or in front of the state of Serbia, are today being incorporated into a modern new space plan that the RS, i.e. the National Assembly of RS, will bring. On the other hand, the spatial plan represents one roof, national document, from which other planning documents should be produced. These are spatial plans of special purpose, for those significant areas in the Republic of Serbia, as well as regional spatial plans, i.e. spatial plans of local self-government. All these spatial plans have to be connected together, that they come from one another. Local self-government should insist on interconnecting local self-government, especially in those joint regional projects, which are projects such as traffic, municipal waste management, water supply, the existence of wastewater treatment and all that strengthens the economic link between local self-government. Many local self-governments have joined Serbia today, respecting the letter of the Law on Planning and Construction, making spatial plans, some in the final stage of drawing up these spatial plans, but it was important to adopt a spatial plan for the development of the RS, in order for local self-government, those who have not already completed the job, to make certain changes, if necessary, in agreement with this spatial plan, but on the other hand, that as a state, as a National Assembly, as the Government, would show our responsibility and insist on local self-government, those who did not start their activities on making spatial plans, that they too go into the job. What should also be said at the beginning, the spatial plan is something in which everything that has been defined by different strategies, which has been defined and adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia over the past few years, and it has not been a bit easy. I think the work done by the expert teams of people who were working on this spatial plan was really big and really big. The spatial plan, which we're talking about today, has been made for the period since 2010. until 2020. It represents a long-term vision of RS development and it seems to me that it is the first step to finally bring in some strategic documents and certain plans in Serbia and to know exactly what can be done in the future and that there are no more deviations from it. Physically, the spatial plan was done by the RS Space Planning Agency, a professional organisation. What we have received information from the Committee on Urbanism and Construction is that the spatial plan has been in about 150 municipalities to consider, that it has been considered in various professional institutions, different professional individuals dealing with this problem have also made their remarks, and what I am pleased to see, that there are all the objections that have come to the spatial plan of the RS and all the objections that have been accepted and which are not, with explanations, which I think is very important. Because one such document should have a good public debate and my personal opinion is that all those who wanted to participate in this public debate had the opportunity to participate in it. The spatial plan consists of two parts, it's a text and graphic part of a spatial plan. When we talk about the texting part of this document that's in front of us, we have one big part that represents an analysis of the existing state. There are data that are from 2008, but we have to assume that this spatial plan began to work in 2009, so the 2008 data didn't change much in 2009. There's that part that's very important. These are measures and actions to be taken in the coming period to be where we want the state of Serbia to be in different areas of social life in 2020. It is therefore important, I think, to say here what the proposings of the spatial plan have defined as a vision of this strategic document, which is that in 2020, the state of RS is territorially established and regionally balanced state, sustainable economic growth and fully infrastructured and accessible, socially coherent and stable, preserved and protected natural and cultural heritage, quality environment and functionally integrated in the environment. It is clear that in 2020, the state of Serbia would need a lot of work, political responsibilities, major political tolerances, huge material resources, in order for all the ideas to be put in place and achieved in the state of Serbia. What is also important in this spatial plan and what should be thought about is that it is based on some five principles that are important. The first principle defined here in this spatial plan is the principle of balanced regional development and improving social cohesion. The state of Serbia today has been very unevenly regionally developed. We talked about the difference between the development of municipalities today in Serbia is around 1.30, after this crisis maybe 1.25. Between the districts, this difference is 1:7 and it is clear that there is an even greater lag behind those areas that have so far been undeveloped and in this field, major interventions must be made in the near future. What is very important is to access the planned construction of infrastructure across RS territory. On the other hand, it must work to build industrial zones, technology parks, to attract potential investors to all parts of RS to get jobs, so that there is no eviction of the population. It is important to create new local initiatives and interventions from the state level. It is clear that local self-government, so poor and alone, cannot do certain things to attract potential investors. It is therefore important that state policies invest from a central level in the development, industrial development and equipment of industrial zones in order to attract potential investors to invest in these areas to employ the population, to keep the population in the area. It is also important that public institutions should be more evenly deployed across the territory of the Serbian state. It is clear that only with these elements can we achieve that in the next period, the state of Serbia is more uniformly developed, more balanced throughout its territory. What the proposals for a spatial plan define is that cities will play the motor power of development of these areas in the future and it is proposed that 4 municipalities get the status of the city. It's Kikinda, Vršac, Pirot and Expension. What is also defined in the spatial plan is that in 2020 we will have a large metropolis city, which is Belgrade, with 1,200,000 inhabitants. We will also have four cities that will have international significance, as the processors say – functional and urban areas. These are the cities of Novi Sad, Pristina, Nis and Kragujevac, which will be cities of special importance. They meet this condition, although in the current public debate, Kragujevac and the area require it to be a city of national importance, but the area has less than 250,000 inhabitants. Proposers thought that only those cities that have more than 250,000 inhabitants could be cities of national importance. Therefore, it will also have special importance for towns with less than 250,000 inhabitants, but it will have a special incentive from the state to be a motor force for the development of the area. It's Subotica, Kragujevac, Pančevo, Užice, Novi Pazar and Zaječar. The third number of cities will also have significance. These are cities in central Serbia, such as Cačak, Kraljevo, Kikinda, Kosovo Mitrovica, Piroth and Vranje, which are important in other parts of Serbia. Special importance will be given to the border posts of Loznica, Šabac and the places connected to Corridor 10 and Corridor 7. In order to achieve a more balanced regional development of Serbia's future, specific measures and incentives have been defined to go towards those cities, regardless of their importance, whether they are national, special or border areas. In the future, they should be the bearers of the development of the entire area. The second principle defined in this spatial plan is regional competitiveness and accessibility. When we talk about competitiveness, it is primarily about economic competitiveness. In the future, we need to create an economy that can be competitive, that is, to withstand the pressure of competition that will be ruthless as the state opens to the EU. Only such an economy can employ the population, make the citizens more satisfied, and that means they have a job and they can create. The development and creation of such an economy must be jointly local self-government and state through strengthening institutions at all levels of government, and on the other hand, it must be sought to ensure that the burden, i.e. the cost of revoking, is reduced as much as possible. In the future, special attention must be paid to investing in education, because only with better education can we have a quality economy and a certain productivity that we want to achieve. On the other hand, accessibility means that all those who want to invest in Serbia's economy must have developed infrastructure, that they can reach certain areas. It is important to develop both travel and rail infrastructures, waterways, institution infrastructures and everything that promotes all that is related to the functioning of the economy. The third principle defined is the sustainable use of natural resources and a protected and improved environment. The part must take care of the rational use of natural resources, the increase of energy efficiency which is not at a very low level in Serbia, the use of renewable energy sources, which is imperative and certain legal solutions have begun to be passed on to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I am absolutely certain that this area will be intensified in the future. The introduction of clean technological solutions, the principle of regional governance of municipal waste, which I think is something that is defined by law and must also be insisted on in the coming period with local self-government, reducing urban and village pollution, developing green areas in cities and shaming and editing certain areas. The fourth principle is the protected and sustainable use of natural and cultural heritage. This protected use in the next period should be the basis for economic and tourism development. It is clear that the protection of natural and cultural heritage must be in line with all modern European standards. The fifth principle is spatial and functional integration into the environment. Today, it is important for the state, as well as for certain regions of the Serbian state, to connect with countries in the environment and regions in the environment. We are also talking about cross-border, interregional and transnational co-operation. The state of Serbia should connect with EU countries, as well as other developed countries of the world, in order to improve its position at the moment, both in economic and political terms. For this principle, it is very important to use cross-border cooperation projects and the implementation of these projects that are most often related to co-operation with local self-governments and between local self-governments. The partnership will help local self-governments, as well as Serbia's state, to integrate it into the EU. In order to reach this vision, it is necessary to define both actions and obligations under the Law on Planning and Construction, and to adopt a programme of implementation of the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia. I think it'll be delivered in the next year. Then we will have a clear picture and what needs to be done to make everything happen, so that in 2020, Serbia is as defined in the vision of these people who made this spatial plan. I want to base myself on two more things, developing the rural part of the Republic of Serbia and developing the infrastructure of the Republic of Serbia. I think it's two areas that may not be the most significant, but they're very important, which are processed in this spatial plan. The rural area today covers 85% of the territory of the Serbian state. The 85% of the population of the Republic of Serbia lives in these 85% of the territory and the average population is 63 people per ha, which is very little. In Serbia, according to statistics, there are 4,800 villages and 700 villages as forecasted by 2020 will not exist. There are now fewer than 150 inhabitants living in them. The most vulnerable areas in this analysis are eastern, southern Serbia, southeastern Serbia and AP KIM. The key problem in this area is that 60% of these people living in rural areas depend on agriculture and do not have permanent employment. The main goal in the future of the Republic of Serbia is to increase the quality of life in rural areas, preserve, restore sustainable development and economic-social, ecological vitality as a result of decentralisation of cities and municipalities. What does that mean? The development of rural areas must pay particular attention in the coming period. Their development must be viewed in an integrated way. What's very well defined in this plan is that it's not the same everywhere when we talk about rural development. We believe that some rural areas are much more developed than others, and therefore the processors have defined some three types of rural development. The first type refers to the Vojvodina and the part around Šapco, or Machva, where the population is more than 150 inhabitants per ha. The other guy is Shumadija, Pomoravalje, the surroundings of Nis, Leskovci and Vranja. There are about 100 inhabitants, 50 to 100 residents per ha. The third type is the part where it has the least population, which is eastern, southeast, southern Serbia and part of the Zlatibor district, where it is below 50 inhabitants per ha, except for Presevo and Bujanovac where the population is larger. The plan's processors have precisely defined what needs to be done in these areas, in order to stop the population from moving first, to improve the demographic structure, and to have a return of the population, so that these spaces will be inhabited in the future. What is also important is the development of infrastructure, especially travel infrastructure. Simply, in order to stop population migration from border areas to central areas, they must have fast communication. Today, rapid communication alongside all transports is the most important, especially travel communication. I think it is very important for this document to be in place by 2014, what the state plans to do in the area of highways as the most important roads. In addition, regional roads are also being considered. It is likely that local self-government will define local traffic plans in its spatial plans. Priority is the end of Corridor 10, both in the north and in the south, as well as towards the border with Bulgaria. It is important to make a forest ring. When I say a forest ring, I mean connecting Belgrade over Pozega to the border with Montenegro and connecting from Preljin to the Preljina-Pojate highway. I am absolutely sure that this will connect large industrial centres in central Serbia, so that it will also be the backbone towards the east, according to Zajecar, that is, towards the west, Užica, Šapco, where business can develop and that this space is connected with good infrastructure, and thus to achieve that economic space is strengthened. That means there's no eviction of the population. The spacious plan of the Republic of Serbia should be the basis for the economic and institutional development of the Serbian state. I am absolutely sure that it requires significant financial resources and not only the task of this government, but all future governments as well. The spatial plan is carried out by 2020 where funds are to be provided to ensure that those things defined by this spatial plan are not left on paper. It seems important to me that this document, as a development document, gets as much support as possible in parliament. I expect opposition MPs from opposition MPs to support this document. The G 17 Plus MP believes this document is good and will support this document in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45712	MP Zoran Antic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45713	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, pure information works, this law consists of two parts. One is these 15 members who introduce us into the law, followed by a spatial plan. I'd like to say a few words first about the law itself. At first, I'd say we needed the law. The SNS believes that it was late with the adoption of a spatial plan and that in the previous period we had a very large flow of foreign funds, we had a huge debt to the state, we had privatisation revenues, we had donations, and we had a very decent export, but unfortunately, in these 10 years very little use of these funds for some capital investments. Unfortunately, the majority went to some ongoing consumption, through permanent elections, through permanent political charms, the interests of political parties, and thus one large capital held by the Republic of Serbia and all citizens of Serbia was spent. Today we have come into a situation to bring a spatial plan that has been set aside for 10 years and to wonder how economically realistic it is, and how far behind it is the political desire and possibly the upcoming pre-election campaign, and to what extent this spatial plan will be realized in this period that you have indicated. What would bother me in the law itself is that the implementation program is not planned for another year. The spatial plan, as far as I know, has been done in a few months, early this year. You were planning to adopt it in July in this assembly, but it took until October, and yet in a few months you brought a spatial plan and then we wait for the implementation of a year. After the implementation, at least we MPs, for another year, will have one deadline to see what is of these plans and the jobs you have committed yourself to. So we're actually going to be able to look at its effects from this document and see how far the realisation is in two years. I get the impression that the motive at this point is primarily political, that the work on the spatial plan is not sufficiently prepared, that we have a big problem with regional spatial plans, where literally nothing has been done. The agency probably started some of those jobs, I heard something, at least as far as the Pomoravsky County and the Schumadian County are concerned, that's what they're doing, that's what they're planning next year, but in the plan, you have a lot of concrete data. It's more descriptive and it's more a wish list, what we'd like to do, than you can really recognize what priorities are in certain regions. I believe the great failure of the law is this institute of insight. I do not know why the minister prescribes an insight into natural or legal persons, i.e. it is likely that a rule will follow, which is why you have not defined yourself to make this available to the public, to go to an information system that would unite perhaps other institutions, in the sense that all data relevant to the view of the territory of the Republic of Serbia can also be made available to domestic and foreign investors. I guess the basic objective of the spatial plan is that we all know what RS or what we as a state are planning in some future period. This possibility and the use of the latest technologies, and I suppose there will be some difficult circumstances for every natural person to be in a position to look at this spatial plan and everything that is in it, I think it's a huge failure and that it should have been dealt with in a different way in the law itself. As I said, there's a lot of talk about foreign direct investment, but foreign direct investment comes first and foremost where the situation is certain, where one state and one nation have a vision. You believe this law has pointed to vision, to some priorities, and I believe it is, but I'm not sure that's enough for an increased level of investment in Serbia today. As far as the spatial plan itself is concerned, it is certainly done with too many ambitions, ambitions that are not suitable for this moment of economic crisis that we are in. He has, unfortunately, a political background and there was no place in this document, because, as I said, the spatial plan should remain with all future governments and should, as it says, be realized over the next ten years. You did this in part and through one explanation in the spatial plan itself, and you pointed out that you have two scenarios when it comes to the spatial plan, that one recession, which is quite certain, but it seems to me that you are much more based on this other one, in order to plan a lot more, you promise, and that this is not very much in line with the realities in which Serbia is today. First of all, when it comes to Serbia's economic base, the way these projects are financed, we will have major problems. The law states that no additional resources are needed and that the funds are secured from some dedicated funds, that we can possibly count on credit funds, etc. I would remind you that a month ago we passed the Financial System Act, in agreement with the IMF, where we have significantly limited the possibility of borrowing the Republic of Serbia, means that this public debt can only be about 45% of gross domestic product. As for the gross domestic product, in the next year or two, we will probably not be able to reach that level from 2008, even though the current government assures us that the situation in the economy is getting better and better, as it is being corrected day by day. The fact is that this is going significantly slower and that the Serbian economy is recovering very badly and very slowly, so that the economic basis for the implementation of these new projects will be extremely problematic. I don't think we actually have any. We have a budget rebalance waiting for us, where a good portion of the remaining funds will be distributed primarily for some social purposes. The government is also aware that Serbia's citizens are very difficult to live on and in the coming period, unfortunately, the budgets of the Republic of Serbia will be social, much less developmental, much less investment money, and I don't recognize what funds you really count on to be able to finance a large number of projects planned by 2010. The concession has very little. It is obvious that this legislation is not adequate and that there is no interest in Serbia, when it comes to demographic capital and let its future not be great, that foreign investors and future concessionaries do not see profit there, do not see their interest. It is absolutely certain that we do not have a good legislative regulation, when it comes to this mix between the private and public sectors, because this private and public partnership has not been brought to life with us at all. It's probably some valves where we might be able to implement some of these projects, but, unfortunately, it's not, and we're going to have to deal with it a little bit and see if we can get one legislative regulation ready to take advantage of these potentials. Telecom, which you were planning to sell by the new year, is likely to be used for a pre-election campaign. That's not some kind of asset that could be realised by capital projects. All in all, we have a big problem with this plan and this law. So many projects will be questionable. I would just like to remind you that, with all this in the coming period, we can expect a smaller number of employees, a smaller income, and all this significantly complicates the situation and the possibility of realising and the reality of this spatial plan itself that is ahead of us today. I think it's a big problem when it comes to regional spatial plans that will be in preparation for some future period and the fact that the government does not respect the Law on the financing of local self-government. Probably all my colleagues received letters from local self-government, and I received from my Despotovians, I have an obligation to them and other local self-governments from the Pomoravska County, to let you know that in the 2011 budget you did not provide for sufficient funds for local self-government, that you did not respect the law, that you do not separate those 1.7% of GDP from local self-government. Why these regional spatial plans, if these projects of local self-government will not be able to invest and will not be able to help, because today a large number of local self-government has funds for employees' salaries, and as far as investments are concerned, the situation is getting worse and worse. Those in many delays and when it comes to obligations towards suppliers, when it comes to their costs, do not meet them, and the drop in income is high, because the largest number of jobs in the previous year, which is close to 200,000, is lost right inside, right outside Belgrade and Novi Sad. I think that at this point, we should all push for it and the government to give up on reducing funds to local self-government, respecting the Law on the financing of local self-government, because this is another condition for this legislative project that we are supposed to adopt today to be implemented in at least one part in a future period. When it comes to regional development, a lot of this legislation has been said about regional development, a lot of good wishes, plans, but it has been completely forgotten that in the past ten years we have a growing poverty within central Serbia, that we have a large number of municipalities that are, not to say, ahead of extinction and in economic terms, but also in demographic terms, and that this capital is very small that this model that you have imagined will need serious financial resources to be realised, that a number of cities are revitalised in Serbia in order to be able to bear economic development. Unfortunately, in the privatisation process, cities and municipalities in the interior were injured, because property was being sold, and most of them were in the interior, and this economic base was very thin, and the situation in businesses and when it comes to their liquidity in the private economy, I mean, first of all, and when it comes to the costs that are in the process of repaying the loan, because they came to trade capital by borrowing from banks. All municipal self-government today, in order to maintain the standard, needs new jobs, new investments, and without it it will not be possible to realise this spatial income plan that we could count on from these investments in some future period. I only know for the Pomorava County that at this point it takes four to five thousand high-quality jobs for us citizens of Pomorava to preserve this standard, otherwise this service sector that monitors the economy will begin to grow. Go through the inner cities, every other place is empty. It is obvious that the service cannot survive without the real sector, and the real sector and jobs are becoming less and less. I think generally speaking, I don't doubt good intentions, but once again to underline, we need a plan, but a plan that's on real ground, not a plan that's the product of some political desire or the fruit of a future election campaign, and I think that's the proposaler's intention, the government's intention right now. We do not need the false optimism we need to spread across Serbia in this pre-election campaign, as many promises have been made over the past ten years, and very little has been achieved and no wonder that there is a lot of pessimism in Serbia today, it is not the opposition's fault, which suggests that today is bad living. Gentlemen of the government, it is your fault, because you have broken many promises and unfortunately there is no trust in you today and it seems to me that the citizens of Serbia would not benefit from this spatial plan at least in some future period. I hope that by the changes we all expect, by focusing on a completely different economic policy that will not be based on the service sector, on imports, on financial institutions, but on what you're talking about, these days on exports, and you've missed ten years, you've now remembered the elections. Only such a policy, such a model of economic growth and development will allow one part of these plans to be realised. Otherwise, we have to plan, apply some standards, conduct education by local self-governments in which we have a very big problem with people who are unable to prepare documentation for many projects, and in this sense very little has been done, regardless of what we have obtained the law on regional development, but almost none of it has been implemented, none of it in Serbia today is working. We do politics, and we do it in the day, in the short term, in the election, but as long as we don't look at each other, we don't stand in front of the mirror and we don't decide to go and make things right in Serbia, we won't get better. I hope after these elections we get a government that will be able to fix things in that sense, realizes all this about the spatial plan you've imagined.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45714	The People's Messenger Velimir Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45715	Madam Chairman, I am very sorry that there is no minister in the O.R. to listen to some suggestions, something to be said today. First, before his arrival at the Ministry this spatial plan was made, made, something little has been done and is now given for adoption. There has been a lot of work on this spatial plan, but it has been waiting to see one reality, which is realistic for Serbia to be able to do by 2020, and what is a fairy tale and a pre-election story, that four highways will be done, that everything in Serbia will be done as necessary. We didn't want to go out until we saw real resources to implement this spatial plan of Serbia by 2000. It is seen now that one inconclusion of the MPs and the ruling coalition, and some in the opposition consider this an ordinary story unrealistic, so you see for yourself what an interest it is in the hall, because no one is there. That it is fortunate that every MP here is present today, because a spatial plan is being adopted. Here today, it is tailored that which municipality will do, what will the city receive in the next ten years, and that every MP bites and fights for his end, his environment, and comes out and realistically says that certain parts of Serbia are completely extinct, do not exist. Let us take the city of Kursumli, 17 villages have no inhabitants. Lukovska Banja, which is the most visited spa in Serbia these days, has no road, has macadam, can't get close to Kursumlia, has 40 km to break the car by driving on macadam. It is not foreseen here that those places that mean a lot to Serbia and that can bring some profits, some profits, are simply not covered. Once again, politics is being made to give everything to large cities, and there a large electoral body, and therefore no wonder 70,000 people from the interior come to Belgrade annually. Each year, Belgrade receives 70,000 new residents. The arrival of a family in Belgrade, according to budgets made from professional services, costs Belgrade an infrastructure of 100,000 euros. Every family that enters Belgrade is looking for a parking lot, looking for a school, looking for a kindergarten, looking for an expansion of an electricity distribution network, an expansion of water lines, sewers, rain sewers, trading facilities, etc. Where do you think we'd end up investing hundreds of thousands of euros in each of Serbia's villages, and that's just to keep one family living where they already have a complete infrastructure? This is one bad policy, and this shows this spatial plan that is lightly proposed for the purpose of some pre-election campaign, and it will all be in 2012 and 2013, it will all be some years, and Mr. Minister doesn't realize that he's had three construction seasons as a minister, and the only thing he's done is one good job, he's brought these nuba investment thugs and he's taken one big natural resource from Serbia and sold it without a tender in vain. He made people sign it. That's why, of course, there'll be problems later. No one understands why construction fell 12% this year and last year by 18%. What kind of spatial plans do we also talk about highways, connect, and people can't get feet of asphalt to get out of the house, live in the mud? The Ibar Highway is no longer possible for traffic. We passed the Traffic Safety Act. How can traffic be safe on the road, when 27,000 cars a day are at Lazarets, 17,000 in Cells, 15,000 in Preljina? All experts say 8,000 when it passes on the magistrate's road there's no more security and there's no law that can give traffic safety, only to drive 20 an hour, which is what's done now. Especially on weekend days, 30km is the average from Cack to Belgrade. We're talking here - now we're going to build a highway and a new Sad-Snatcher-Loss. Let's make it, but from Loznica let's get started. Don't do what Pajtic says, the election campaign, and it'll start from Novi Now. Let's start with Loznica. I'd love to see that, but from Loznica we'll start back. We're talking – now we're going to build the Valjevo-Lovnica railroad. That's good, and it should have been done a long time ago. We're not saying that the King-Cruise-Nish railroad has been closed for two years. For two years, the railroad has been out of service because of its rotten thresholds, due to its perseverance and inability to carry out safe rail traffic. Let's fix it. Is that irrelevant? We talked about making a highway, because it's the biggest traffic like Kruševac-Pojate-Preljena, etc. For two years, the Krushevac-Nish railroad has been closed. The King-Cruise-Nish doesn't exist. During my term of office, I worked on Požega-Kingeva, but it was necessary to continue the electrification and construction of the railroad. It's not continued, it's stopped. Where she cares, there's the rest. What about the Sentinel tunnel? Why doesn't it end? Where he's staying and today he's standing. What about the bypass around Belgrade? Where it's stopped, there's the rest. Out came the bosses, opened up what others did and put a stop to it. In 2012, we expect large funds from the EU, etc. They told us nicely, the EU's entry is the earliest in 2018. What's this government gonna do? She's still having the construction season next year and she's been through the entire term, gentlemen. What did you do at Prokop? Where he cares, he stands here today. What did you do on the battalion loop? Likewise. You've laid the foundation stone for a year and a few days for the Danube Bridge at Zemun and you say you'll be working it next year. Do something already. You started something from the Bulgarian border. It's earth's work, it's all nothing. This doesn't look like anything to Macedonia. That there to see what chaos was made, the enemy to bring the greatest would not make the highway. Here, I would suggest, since I'm president of the Traffic and Connections Committee, that we go one day and go over what's open. Here, gentlemen, MPs from the ruling coalition and the opposition, let's go and cross over how the highway was done. If you say it's good, I'll congratulate you and put an apology here. You stopped the concession that was the engine of Serbia's development. You stopped the concession and said you'd make it. You say so. How much did you make? Not even 500 meters. When do you think you're making it? It's the same in 2012. Right? Maybe a little something in 2011. You're just waiting for that poor Telecom to sell, like you'd do something. Do you know that half of this one highway is a whole Telecom? It's not gonna happen. I'm very sorry that you've forgotten some very important things to do in space. Mr. Minister is Minister of Ecology. I don't see a solution for Bor and the entire region of eastern Serbia. What about the plow in Bora that's cancer-earth Bora? Mr. Minister of Ecology, you're the second term minister, did you kill one of them there? You're not. I don't see an ash solution in Obrenovac, Lazarevec. What did you do there? Kopi Colubar, you dug up and you did, what Biafra doesn't have. All you do is dig, extract coal, and that's where the swamps stay. The crocodiles will start working a little bit more now. You're pushing those poor peasants. You took half of the Forest and attached it to Belgrade to exploit coal and make heat and to take revenue from it. Now you want a gas power plant that's scheduled with the Russians to be in Nis, to move to Batajnica, to add to Belgrade, to have Belgrade to work from and to make all Serbian citizens one day go and come to Belgrade. You can't survive, Belgrade itself will choke. Gentlemen, don't do business. Without the economy, plan whatever you want, there's nothing to do with it. No factory works in certain cities and municipalities. I hear here today a gentleman from the ruling coalition who says - four more cities will be given city status. We can also give the Darklings the status of the city. Let's also declare Guch a city. It doesn't matter what the residents don't have, but it's empty and it's pulling back towards Belgrade. There's no business in Belgrade either. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The railroad doesn't work. Don't do "First Spark" Barich. The Dragon doesn't work for you. Don't do anything to you. So how does Serbia work? Your big program, where you won the FIA election, employs only a thousand people, and you promised to hire Shumadi. Is Shumadia a thousand people? You promised 200,000 "punta", which will be exported to Russia in 2010, and now you're celebrating the 30,000th car in two or three years. Do you see how many misjudges and plans you've had? That's why what you're predicting is a mistake, because there's no real basis for doing this. Look at what certain cities look like. You don't have the most basic funds from the budget to transfer for heating schools, kindergartens. You're talking about Loznica here, someone's praised. That's where half the city isn't heating up, it's not heating up schools, the kids are sitting in jackets, in winter coats, but one of the parties took Loznica, brought in some former head of the MUP, and now they're raising Loznica into the stars. It's not business, gentlemen. This MUP guy can only listen, listen, do whatever he wants, but your business isn't working, and you can't move without it. There's no spatial plan when Sava's going to get the airworthiness. There were 60,000 people working on Sava's airworthiness. There are no employees today. It's not about the Danube, there's no onions, there's nothing, there's no system. And you sold this one under suspicious circumstances and you want to settle there. You didn't finish the thermal power plant. Basically, I don't see in the spatial plan that the most basic thing is that citizens in the 21st century have healthy drinking water. The whole Banat is a problem, no drinking water. I don't want to pick up any cities. It's been planned for years, and not a single NIP dollar has been invested since the sale of this sized companies. The "Gretchkovo" dam has been planned for 15 years and there is no way to make it, but drinking water directly from the water supply for five municipalities and that is impossible, the question is the day when it will stop. A dig? It has been said that they cannot agree with the government and the city. Now is the opportunity to agree, and in one and the other authorities are Democrats and this coalition. Why don't you do the Prokop? What kind of train traffic are you talking about when your station is 200 years old? What kind of development of rail traffic are you talking about? So there's a lot of things here that are unrealistic. We were on our way to open up the Cargo traffic to the Ponics. Only a few more funds were required for the army to finally, if it could, unmount those missiles that were buried in the planes. If he can't, he'll find someone who can do it. It hasn't been done until today, the runway's been trained, the runway meets. The ships were at the end, flight control was in place and it's all over, but it'll only be five or six years from now. Why doesn't the cargo center work next year? Therefore, nothing more serious can be done. You've left some of the facilities you've been pushing for years. Now you're not talking about some bumps on the Old Mountain, but I see you forgot Corridor 7, you forgot Sava. Traffic security is nothing, because you don't have any safety conditions. See what the problems are, and there's no way to make it happen. Here you break the Constitution, gentlemen, through this spatial plan, because you base it on higher political, or statistical regions. These are regions that have been invented to survive the coalition in power, for some ministers to get some support. We need a realistic spatial plan to build on our constitution, meaning the municipalities and districts that exist, and these political regions of yours, or statisticalally, whatever you want, or Dinkic's regions, they serve you only to survive. You promise everything and everything. As far as I heard from the opening presentation, the minister defined himself as the variant of Belgrade-South Adriatic via Sandzak, left the variant of Užice – Kokin boat – Nova Varoš – Prepolje – Priboj. It has been said that the expert group will work on both variants and choose, and now you are a little bit poised to the Sandzaks to support you in power, but the question is whether the commission, which works at the state level, will accept that variant as justifiable. Of course, if you didn't bring it out here right now, you'd be the government. That's why you have to accept it. Now I'm asking the Uzicans, the Zlatibors, I'm asking all these municipalities that I've listed along the way, do they know that the minister has already defined himself for this variant? Where did he get his justification, on what basis did he define himself, to save the government and last a little longer? You saw that the spatial plan, which we had for years, was adopted in '96. For years, he was in power, but no one respects him. I saw the head of state take the president of Turkey and he's already told some new version of the highway, which is not in any spatial way, but it's accepted. Why? To court the Turkish president. A man comes in and says "here," and they "understand," we say "not in the spatial plan," and they say "what a spatial plan, who asks you about it". Therefore, there are many gaps, there are many shortcomings to discuss. Find a solution for these municipalities to survive, don't promise them a colorful lie – you'll all get highways, everyone gets bypasses, you'll all get infrastructure. No factory works. From what means? You charge the budget 60% of the excise on fuel, which no country does. Each normal country separates from the excise duty on fuel for highways, roads and road infrastructure. The Germans stand out 53%, the English over 50%, and by last year we've singled out 10%, and now we've increased something, but that's not enough, that's not even a third of what's being collected. You take taxes on fuel and pay pensions and salaries to budget users. Why? You don't have a real employee to pay into a pension fund. That's the problem of this country, that's the problem of this government -- it's not about the economy. He's got to work on it. Don't live in dreams, in fairy tales, don't fantasize, be realistic, what you promise to commit, accept and do, and what you can't, say you can't. (President: Time. Try hiring people. Serbia should employ at least 300,000 people to maintain a system as realistic as budget filling. (President: I thank you. ) You can't go to the IMF again, because the question is how are we gonna get it back someday?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45716	Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45717	I want to take advantage of my right to a replica and replicate the honourable fellow MP Ilic to his conclusion that there is no heating in Loznica. There have been heating in Loznica for several days, though late, due to problems created by the private firm Decotra due to the strike, and it warms up one part of the city. I am therefore responsible today, as an MP and vice president of the City Assembly, that there has been heating in Loznica for three days.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45718	Mr. Lapcevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45719	The Honorable Presidency, unfortunately, cannot address Mr. Minister, who presented today, as he said, this roof law from which all the planning documents that this country should bring and that, as Mr. Minister said, balances and makes sustainable development in the Republic of Serbia. I will look back at the beginning as the minister addressed, and he said - I congratulate you on yesterday and on that, probably referring to the forwarding of our EU membership bid by the Council of Ministers to the Commission. Every time one of the steps, which has dozens in this process of Serbia's integration to the EU, we here have the praises and congratulations and the announcements of that day for some historic date, and a positive opinion, and feasibility studies, and the lecture of candidacy, and the acceptance of candidacy, and the consideration of candidacy. Every time something is said about the candidate of the Republic of Serbia on that thorny road that has a hundred steps we declare the event historic and congratulate each other. What are we congratulating? What did we get yesterday? A passed to a committee to pass on to us a questionnaire that has four thousand questions to which we will answer, and four thousand times we will congratulate each other, wonderfully, we have answered that question. Let's move on. The question is, how much has our life improved yesterday in every citizen's pocket or maybe he's gotten worse? So, as Mr. Minister has said, this is one roof law, the most important planning document a sovereign state can bring in order to make balanced and sustainable development in its space, taking into account all the natural characteristics of the area in which it is located. By that definition, it would be most logical and normal for me, I suppose, for all other MPs, if the Prime Minister or the president of the state had said that sentence. Why not? If this is the most important document this Assembly has brought over the next ten years, why is this document, the spatial plan, not presented by the highest state officials? For example, in China, every year, the state parliament is sitting at this annual gathering, in early March, and their session takes three to five days, where all top state officials, starting with the president of the state, through the Prime Minister, the next president of various Committees for Sustainable Development, talk about the annual plan for China's development, in detail and exhaustively a few hours in parliament, what the state of China plans to do in the course of that year, with what means, in which part and in which province it will build which capital facility, how much it will cost, etc. Look, we've been making a spatial plan for ten years, presented to us by the Minister for Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning. I think it is such an important document that at the very least the Prime Minister should present it, because it is the vision of a political elite currently in power that Serbia should look like and should develop over the next ten years. I'm not saying Mr. Dulic doesn't have that qualification, although he's orthopedic and he's dealing with spatial planning, but I don't think the simple importance of the document requires that the Prime Minister, who doesn't seem to be doing his job today, and doesn't know what hit him by being elected Prime Minister. In this spatial plan, the minister said, especially the way it was done and represents a comprehensive document, from an analysis of the state's current situation and recognition of the problems that should be addressed over the next ten years with the objectives set for what to do by 2020, so that this country has a more balanced development, in order to improve the quality of life of every citizen, etc. The minister said that the drafting of this plan document was based on six principles, among other things, one of the principles is the revitalisation of the population, sustainable economy, decentralisation, polyntrism, attention devoted to cities, integrated association around large projects, the organisation of the economy and environmental protection. Principidally everything is fine and reading this extensive material of about 400 pages on me has left the greatest impression of the part that deals with demographics and demographic analysis of the country and demographic predictions that, unfortunately, will be catastrophic over the next ten years. Not only is this devastating policy, led by Boris Tadic and his diaphragms, currently in power, but because it is obvious that the state of Serbia is in terms of industrial and economic development at the very bottom and that migration is so great that in ten years we will have an even worse picture than it is today. And today it is such that almost the whole east and south of the country is a semi-region, the West also, that the population is grouping in Belgrade, Vojvodina and larger centres, and that by the rule of all state money from the budget, and not just from the budget, but from the credit, they are spending on the development of these urban centres. As long as no one takes care of how to live in the poorest parts of the country, how to raise infrastructure there, how to stop the devastating eviction of the population, above all, of educated people, because when educated people, young people, then their families go with them, which means that the village has no perspective in the long run. For me, the frat information I read here is that from 4,860 settlements in 1,100 settlements in the last year no child was born. Imagine the fact that a quarter of the settlement has virtually no future, because it does not give birth to children and that it is likely to disappear completely in ten, twenty years, because it has no perspective for survival. In this spatial plan, however, attention is paid to this problem and the objective of doing everything necessary to balance development and to what is said to be the spatial distribution of the population on a demographic basis. However, I have not read any concrete measure here, not one specific mechanism in which it will be done. Mr. Dulic has a lot of work to do, probably, and since he's here, I have to ask him a specific question. He has been President of the Assembly for two years, the minister has been in this government for two years, and for the four years, he has not had a chance to travel beyond the Danube and Sava, or he may have gone through central Serbia. Ten days ago, he had the opportunity to go to Leskovec, to visit municipal leadership, to talk to them and to say at a press conference that he was in great error, that he could not have had the opportunity to travel to Serbia sooner, to meet Serbia, and to live in the error of all 36, 37, 38 years, how long he had been, that he was as a man who was born in the north was special and that all people living in the north were special, and that those living in the south, in Leskovac, Nis, Vranja, were a little less special, but coming to Leskovac, getting to know that town, found out that no monkeys lived there and that it was not the jungle and that he broke his delusion and that he was happy about it. Be careful, one minister, who in some way politically represents the establishment of this country, says in one city, which is the fifth, sixth largest in this country, that he felt that a little less special people live in that environment, not to say that it is a jungle and that they are not worthy of attention. There is an opportunity, in this picturesque way, maybe the man and unconsciously said and showed the attitude of the state and state government towards the most underdeveloped parts of Serbia, towards the south, according to the people -- the sadder it is through that political statement, but it can also be seen through the state's relationship in the sense of investment and assistance and the insight of the problem in which this population is located in the poorest parts of the country. If that were true, it says that over 80% of the investment coming from the state budget is realised in Belgrade, Vojvodina and the environment. We heard two months ago in the highway Mr. Tadic had across the country, that Serbia is the country where most bridges are built and most bridges are built. No, Mr Tadic, and gentlemen of the government, the most bridges are not built in Serbia, the most bridges are built in Belgrade and partly in Vojvodina. No bridge, no larger investment is made less than Sava and Danube. However, the president of the Assembly, with the Minister of Infrastructure, opened the work on Corridor 10 a few months ago at Dimitrovgrad on the roadway and said that the opening of these works opens up an opportunity for the employment of 100,000 people. The other day, I went to the city of Dimitrov City and saw the phenomenal advances of the work and that the kilometre that was done on the perimeter of Dimitrovgrad had a chance to be completed in 2082, with this dynamic as it was started... By the way, Dimitrov citizens have told me that the three have already found work on the detour at Dimitrovgrad, so it is likely that these 100,000 people will be hired in the next 50 years. Special attention in this document is also devoted to more balanced regional development. So it is found here that regional differences are huge, that gross social product per capita in flat-rate regions is moving even in comparison to one in 30, the relationship between Belgrade's most developed and probably the region around Novi Sad, according to the poorest regions, probably the dreary-equities end. That the region's development ratio even goes one to seven. The number of unemployed people in Belgrade is around 5.5% and even up to 40% in Vranje, Leskovac and surrounding municipalities. That the average salary in the country's most developed parts, above all in Belgrade municipalities, is more than 60,000, and that the salary in Kursumlia, in Beli Palanca, in Blac is barely 16-17 000, which clearly tells how much the difference between development in certain parts of the country is and how much work should be done to overcome this problem. However, apart from finding that this is the case, there is again no concrete measure in which we will reduce these regional differences -- how we will stop the great demographic demand from the poorest municipalities of the east and south of Serbia, how and what infrastructure projects we will implement in these municipalities to enable people to have a decent life, to be able to work in their places, to start a family and stay there. If nothing of the economy is working, and obviously it is not working, even in Nis which is mentioned here as a metropolis or as a major city centre around which the future development of Southeastern Serbia should be based, even in this Nis does nothing of business, so it has been recorded that over 400 high school students have left for the past two years, who have completed their colleges, but have no job in their hometown, but have to go to Novi Sad, Belgrade or abroad to find a job because it is a prerequisite for establishing a family and a further existence. There are no concrete measures to address regional competitiveness problems. There is not even a clue in which we will encourage the economy in undeveloped areas to work for these people to get a job, because if they do not, they will have to pack their suitcases and come to Belgrade. We just heard from Mr Ilic that for every family that has moved to Belgrade, it is necessary to allocate hundreds of thousands of euros in order to expand the infrastructure and provide living conditions. I know that not all residents in Belgrade have decent living conditions, but it is not clear to me, if it is more balanced regional development and the spatial distribution of the population, in the sense that regional differences need to be balanced and reduced, to employ people and to allow them to live decently in order not to move out of their places, how, contrary to one such strategy, do they realise state investments? In recent years, they have taken credits to implement large infrastructure projects in Belgrade that build one bridge on Ada, the second bridge from Zemun to Borca, building subways, subways and whatnot. There is still some mention of Smederev towards Panchev. Literally all state investments will be spent on completing Belgrade infrastructure. It's the card. Building that bridge from Zemun to Borca will create an opportunity to turn a huge area across the Danube into city building land, which translates into an invitation to all people who do not have their own existence in places where they live so that they can come freely and settle that part of Belgrade. Which will say that in the next 20 years, if the project is implemented, at least 20 more cities or 20 smaller places of Southeast Serbia will disappear. According to what it says here, the huge money forecasted for Belgrade's infrastructure is much smarter and more normal to invest in undeveloped municipalities to create conditions for the lives of those people who cannot survive there. As this document is written, it is comprehensive, it is a roof document, and it should produce all other planning documents, to balance development, but unfortunately without financial support and without strategy – how to realise these beautiful desires will remain just a list of beautiful desires, which, like all previous documents, will remain a dead letter on paper, because it will not be able to be realised. The Serbian state today owes more than 24 billion euros. The government's strategy is further borrowing. The revenues in the budget are such that they can't provide either the country's basic existence and its organs, so we have a deficit of about 1.5 billion euros a year. Without a clear strategy on how we're going to revive the domestic economy, there's no future, nor is there any chance that anything from what's written in the spatial plan is realized. They won't even be able to build public roads in the first and second order. Neither highways nor other investment in energy will be built, infrastructure unless the state has a capable domestic economy, unless it employs the population, unless it raises the quality of life. The development of a country based solely on loans is absolutely not sustainable and is impossible in the longer term. That's why, of course, we can't support a document like this because it doesn't give us guarantees that what's written here will be possible to realize.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45720	Time. I truly believe that your estimates that Corridor 10 should be completed through our country in 2080 will not be realized. Secondly, I'd like to say, of course, I never said that the opening of the works on the part where I showed up was about to hire 100,000 people. It is estimated that 100,000 people will have a job all the time and through the entire corridor 10 in our country and those facilities that go along corridor 10. That was the only line I ever said. Mr. Dragan Stevanović has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45721	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will take the opportunity to begin this debate on the spatial plan as the minister has begun. Mr. Dulic, what you congratulate us on, and as regards yesterday, for the SRS, is a defeat. It represents defeat, and later we will come to this and why, because for the political decision made by your party president and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to enter into dialogue with Pristina, and to make a link to this document that is before us today, I ask you, in these dialogues and negotiations with Pristina, will you find a starting basis for you to find in this spatial plan that you are reading today, or will there be documents for such a thing to write and to come to us later? This reminds me of the times when our defeats were turned into victories. I wouldn't want politics to end, what the end of the policy that it was dealing with. But it all points out that something like this is going to happen. You said so a moment ago, and you mentioned the European family of the people. When we talk about spatial integration, Mr. Minister, they are much more and more serious than the political integrations you insist on. They can be part of spatial integration, if a country-run policy has the determination to be part of, say, the EU. We don't care, we don't care. We do not think that this should be something that the state needs to run, but it also does not limit us from taking a position both in relation to the spatial plan and in relation to the spatial integration of the Republic of Serbia. One more thing you said, maybe you did a lapus, that this government job is over. Unfortunately, this government business, the very serious and responsible government, which understands what sustainable development is, has yet to begin. The government, Mr. Minister, in which you sit, I once thought to me, may my colleagues, if I repeat myself, have something to do with sustainable development as well as Eskimo with the index in the Belgrade Stock Exchange. The only link you have is an expensive publication, which you paid for with the help of Sweden, printed and published by Bozidar Djelic, which tells us how much progress we have made in sustainable development. You came to power in 2000, it took you eight years to bring a strategy for the sustainable development of the Republic of Serbia. When you open these pages, you go from one defeat to another. The defeats have not been passed on and presented only in this document. Mr. Minister, defeats have been made in the spatial plan. When the spatial plan we're talking about today, the SRS does not want to challenge the challenge science has responded to. So what we're saying is that in scientific terms, when it comes to science, the spatial plan is done correctly, methodologically. In this spatial plan are embedded and based on modern planning principles, but this spatial plan has another handicap, which you will implement or at least as little as you have, for a year or two days, we hope. It's the biggest handicap of this spatial plan. If you ask me, Mr. Minister, what's the good news? For us, it's the best segment that applies to the state's analysis. There is no better confirmation of any political criticism and incrimination of the Serbian regime than science, confirming the SRS' position, has, in some ways, introduced into an analysis of Serbia's situation. The way you presented the business plan, you didn't have to represent him at all. That's what any MP could read. We were expecting a live debate here. A live debate would lead you to data and arguments that you do not want to listen to either you who commit government or the MPs who vote for this majority, and you certainly do not care to listen to the public of the Republic of Serbia. What's the matter here? It's a controversial policy that frames this document that science has done. Why is it so controversial? I ask you a very specific question – with which Regional Development Act is adopted in line with this spatial plan? Science has defined seven functional continents or regions, as they call it. There's proof of everything the SRS said that we didn't need the Regional Development Act. Why, below. Then the spatial plan was aligned with a law that has seven regions. Then the government gentlemen got into a fight, started a fire in the Raska area, and, as a consequence, decided to change the spatial plan. Regional Development Act. Today we have a spatial plan which I assume you will adopt and which knows seven functional continents, and the Regional Development Act knows about five regions. It doesn't go absurd until then. When it comes to the spatial plan, priorities based on which a regional spatial plan will be considered, it says that regions with accredited development agencies will have priority. How much have you accredited the development agencies? Can we hear that? Irony goes on. In this spatial plan, you've given space for science to enter the district associations that your policy has abolished. The category of district associations no longer exists. You've abolished that by law. The priority here will be those who have district associations. You've led science astray. The unreasonable policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia and Boris Tadic is devising the efforts of serious science. That's the problem with this spatial plan and this country. Today we're listening to the story of Corridor 10. You've been repeating that story like parrots for 10 years. How far did you get? What did you do with that corridor 10? What did you do with the waterways? You only need 80m euros for the Sapac area to make the Sava River waterproof without touching the Danube, and we'll touch it a little later. Of course, everything that also comes from the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a barrier and obstruction of the principles of sustainable development, rational and domestic governance of national goods, protected areas, unfortunately, we do not now have time to touch all this. There will also be discussions in detail, which we will talk about. Mr. Minister, we will speak and wave the documents coming from your ministry, signed by your associates, which are directly opposed to the principles of sustainable development and the national responsible management of protected areas representing the national interest of the Republic of Serbia. Now you who are such a political profile are asking us to accept your inclination and understanding of sustainable development. Please don't. It is sad that a serious document, which should be adopted and discussed in a different atmosphere, is given to you for implementation and implementation. We ask you, what is in the spatial plan and the law guaranteeing that they will receive an adequate implementation program and will be adopted on time? Mr. Minister, from your ministry, of course, don't take this personally, but from your ministry, laws have come to this assembly that have experienced almost absolute fiasco. The Social Security Act, where are the effects? They're nowhere to be found. The law on the promotion of the construction industry, where are the effects? They're nowhere to be found. A set of environmental laws, when you take into account a set of environmental laws and what science has written to you in the report, i.e. an analysis of the situation in the spatial plan, raises the question of why we even discussed them. In the end, cream on cake, your law on planning and construction. Just tell you nicely, Minister, find a measure and don't present the Law of Planning and Construction as you represented it. In a year's time, you can't just sum up and sublime the effects of the law, you still haven't brought any sublegal acts or changed them in the sick political atmosphere that you're changing them into in the government. We don't burden you personally and most of all, you may have had a good will, but everything around you -- politics, particular interests, mafia interests, tycoon interests, have put you in a stalemate position. Serbia did not take half a step forward one year after the law was passed. When it comes to the essence of the law's problem, it's a conversion. You wanted to solve five things with one law, you didn't solve one thing, and the one you could, in terms of planning, you questioned objectively. You know very well what kind of problems you face in the field when it comes to planning and all that planning means. Now one question very correct for you – what does this mean that you do not need additional funds in the budget for the implementation of the spatial plan? Does that mean you have enough regular resources in your budget or does it mean something else? Mr. Minister, this spatial plan is extremely ambitious and it's good that it is because you'd be calling on limits tomorrow, because you won't do anything about the implementation of this spatial plan. It's not bad that he's ambitious, but I'm asking you, where did you get the money for all this? Do you know that a few days ago, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Budgetary System Act was passed. Can we recognize the ambitions of this spatial plan in the fiscal policy that has been given frames through this new Budgetary System Act? You, Mr. Minister, right here, we will come, I believe, in an opportunity to discuss this in detail, talk about changes and education reforms. You're talking about needs and changes in the system that 95% of the funds use exclusively on salaries. Bozidar Djelic tells us here that in the context of European integration you have done a great thing in the field of science. Making fun of healthy and average intelligence. Somehow you don't want to talk about it and you don't want to talk about it. I'd go back to what, by its essence, represents the backbone of the problem here. Now, look at this. We all have a happy day yesterday. Look at the data that has put science on the burden of all governments since 2000. In 2007, 13.7% of Belgrade's households are connected to the sewer, you congratulate us. What are you congratulating us, Minister? After ten years of your authority, 95% of the wastewater of the Republic of Serbia goes into water streams uncleaned. Mr. Minister, I'd like the conditions and circumstances to allow me to express myself properly, while you congratulate us on European victories, we'll give ourselves up in our own wastewaters. Tell these people here - how much money do you need to process just Belgrade waste water, build on European standards of plants that will be cleaned up? Seven hundred million euros. That's the information I read, if it's true, it's true, if it isn't, then I apologize to the public if I'm cheating on her. You're telling us about the European path and congratulating us. You're saying you got confirmation of everything you did yesterday. What did you do? You have done nothing that has to do with the healthy environment and the sustainable development of the Republic of Serbia. If I were right, I will go further through what you have offered us as a document and bring the MPs before us. Regional differences have never been greater since 2000, so here we go. Who's to blame? The SRS? The DS was two-thirds of that time in power. Who's to blame? Tell us, who's to blame? It's just something you need to tell us. Tell me, who's to blame for the fact that we don't have an aero-polluter cadastre by now? Compare the 2008-2009 report on the state of environmental protection in Serbia. It almost makes no difference. There won't be a better one. Waste disposal does not satisfy even the elemental criteria. Next, someone mentioned it, we are one of the oldest nations in the world, not in Europe, but in the world, it says here, Mr. Minister. Let's not talk about the social housing fiasco. Be careful, even the science that is true in academic form, tells you that here reflects the impotence of political will to prevent and solve the problem of illegal construction of informal settlements etc. So here, at one point, there is a mention of investment urbanism, which the SRS calls abuses made by tycoons. They, people, wanted to keep the academic level, everything is clear to you. You don't have the political will and the power to stand up to the atmosphere and the ambience that you've sparked and created yourself, and this country has this problem and all of us citizens of this country have this problem. You don't understand sustainable development, and you can't cope with what you've, unfortunately, established yourself. Insufficient use of the settlement network, you didn't say anything about it. Then, inconsistencies of the traffic network and the purpose of space, I won't mention the cultural heritage. Basic problems in the domain of nature protection and natural goods are related to non-implementation, not knowing the applicable rules by the population, be careful now, institutions, irrational use of natural resources, poor coverage of planning and urban documentation, non-inventivity etc. Did you get confirmation, reward and praise for that yesterday? Is this Serbia that you will lead to the EU? You can't even take that Serbia to the third world, South Africa, down to the bottom. It's your fault, and you should talk about it, and you should brag about it, not any political decisions that we all know the price to have. Of course, I don't have enough time, and I wish I could touch everything, especially as far as the economy is concerned. Science, you from the government sent us this document, it says – slowing down economic growth, low productivity of the economy, high external trade deficit, avoidance of privatisation, the introduction of corporate governance principles into the public sector, public enterprises, etc. Mr. Minister, science has written to you in a decent way that only declares that you are in favour of the sustainable development of the Republic of Serbia. Now you expect one serious document to get its implementation and realization from the people who are to blame for all this. What about the Danube? Do you know what it says here? Because of the privatisation of ports conducted by democratic power in Serbia, port activity has been questioned. Serbia, while you are talking fairy tales about the Danube strategy, has come in a position to lose a strategic position in the Danube because of Serbia's robbery privatisation of ports. Who's to blame for that? Who's to blame? The governments of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Republic of Serbia, you who have allowed it all. Now you will remove it or correct it. No, of course you won't, and the public has to hear it. I'm convinced that a large part of the public shares an opinion with me. We must, Mr. Minister, stop living in an illusion on your initiative. The conditions, I will conclude, for the adoption of the spatial plan that you cited, the political, economic, social, environmental, were acquired much earlier, and you could consider those arguments back in 2000, when you came to power. That's what we told you. The space plan of 1996 was a spatial plan that was adopted not to be adopted. Political obstruction is the rules of the province's leadership. If there were strength to stand up to it then, the consequences of these obstructions both in Vojvodina and in KIM today might not be in the extent to which they are. So today, at the age of 15, or in 1996, when the plan was adopted, it was anachron, because it was adopted for 20 years. You have had plenty of time, space and human and resource capacities, and you have wasted all of us for the past ten years, in order for a serious and ambitious spatial plan to be implemented in Serbia, Serbia needs national conscious and responsible people, the same party. Mr. Minister, you don't have a chance, a chance to offer this to Serbia, and that's why this law will experience the fiasco, as well as everything else in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45722	The word has a minister, Dr Oliver Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45723	I'd start with what you've finished your presentation, which is that in Serbia, everything has been fiasco. When you say that, I get the impression that you're feeling pleasure about it and I get the impression that when you talk about all these problems, which we honestly and openly listed in the spatial plan, you talk as if you're glad that these are the problems our country is facing. As if you are now glad to announce that 4% of the waste water in Serbia is being cleaned up so much, it is as if you are pleased that Serbia is full of dumps, so you are very glad that Serbia is filled with different kinds of dangerous waters and that is all the facts. When you say that, you can point your fingers at me, you can point them at this government, any other government, you can now point your finger at the fact that for 20 years we've been going through wars, sanctions, destruction, poverty, and the terrible consequences of both economics and society, but we recognize it all and put it into this important document. I'm telling you and I guarantee you, the spatial plan is a political, absolutely neutral document, it doesn't support any ideology, no policy, it's not written by any party, it's a state-of-the-art cut and the offer of a set of options this country has in the future. Many MPs say, therefore, that this is an ambitious document that will never be fulfilled. Whether or not it will be fulfilled depends on ourselves. The spatial plan has not said at any time in 2020 that Serbia will certainly be a better, nicer and more decorated country and happier. The spatial plan said, if this is done, this and this, if funds are provided for, if invested in infrastructure, if other resources are provided for development, if the Danube is put into office, if there is a political will to deal with corruption, if there is a political will to deal with illegal construction, if we put order into urbanism, construction and other sectors, Serbia can be much happier and more beautiful in 2020. This is what I present to you here today, fully aware of the fact that you could say through irony – ha, ha, you admitted your defeats. It's not recognition of defeat. All that's been going on, for example in the environmental protection sector for the past 20 or 30 years, we've been caught in the last two years and I'm going to start to list what we've done in those last two years so you can talk about environmental issues as one of the top political priorities today. The first success of the Ministry of Environment is that today we are even discussing this in this House and the problem. It's already a great success. The fact is, we've been the first to open up the problem of everything that's been covering up for the last few years. We said, Serbia is one big wild dump. That's what no one has ever said, because under the cloak of false patriotism we feared that our people and our country would not speak uglyly, because that means that we think of our people and our country uglyly. I don't mean ugly when I say that only 4% of the waste water that we as citizens create is being purified, and everything else goes into rivers that have turned us into open sewers. It's not my problem, it's yours and any of the people who took responsibility to participate in creating a better society. This problem must be opened, it must be talked about openly, and only then can solutions be offered, as it must be openly said that this society has failed, not for your rule, not for the time being, because you were short of ruling, but during that policy that you created and whose part you were, and that in the collapse of that society, not only economically and socially, but also culturally and valuablely, we have come to the conclusion that no one minded that Serbia was one big dump. Serbia was not one big dump 20 years ago, and as a consequence, this policy that ruined the country, Serbia became one big dump. These are all the things we can talk about, which are part of the recognition and drawing of the line, so the spatial plan has drawn the line. Today, when we talk about the implementation of all the laws that I have defended here against the National Assembly, and it has adopted them, we are talking about the flow of time that is necessary for each of them to become an integral part of our lives. Maybe it's true to go out here and propose a law on planning and construction, believing that many red tape in the administration by local self-government will take seriously the state's intention to bring order into this area this time. It is true that I now have to go and come before you next month with amendments and additions to the law, where I will do those things that we thought we didn't have to be arranged, because they stand by, normize and put into law to get him in line. We haven't given up the course to bring order into the area we're covering. In two-and-a-half years, we've been fluctuating the entire protection of the environment. You today have standard chemicals, non-ionizing radiation, total reforms that need to be installed in institutions that need to deal with climate change. You today have 100% recycling of waste tyres, batteries, you today have large investments in the recycling of five packagings, in the recycling of electrical waste itself, you finally have regional dumps on the great territory of Serbia. A big dump opened in Leskovac, no one believed it, it was built for 20 years, and it was open just because of everything we've done. It also exists in Jagodina, Lapov, in many other cities. We'll be opening up in Uzica soon. We will, therefore, cover the vast territory of the Republic of Serbia with the arranged management of waste. We've opened up so far, or we're planning to open 20 recycling centers, and that's the stuff that's new. You've finally got a waste separation, and we're not throwing it all in one bucket together anymore, we're going to split the waste. All these are the consequences of the enormous work this ministry and this government are making to get the state settled. It may not be fast enough for you, but given the circumstances and the inertness of our bureaucratic apparatus, and the fact that we are who we are, I am extremely pleased that we have done this much, believe me. We'll do even more. In order to do even more, we have to create a cross-section and it's done with this spatial plan and that we have to create a policy of the future. The project, which is called the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia by 2021, was not designed to make us boast and then put it in a drawer. We are deeply aware of the fact that by 2021 there will be a few more elections and several more governments to carry it out. We are deeply aware of the fact that you, too, will miraculously come to power tomorrow, and you would also have to write almost identical things that are part of the situation that is happening in Serbia today. What you would write, if it wasn't 4% of the water that's polluted, that's being cleaned up; no, we're writing what's reality. Since you have essentially looked back on what was my introduction, I must say that I am very proud that after a series of good steps this country takes when it comes to integration, we have finally come to the situation that we can say that we will soon become a candidate country. It's a big breakthrough and it's a success. He has not exclusively recognised this government for good results, but has been a recognition to all governments since 2000. We've finally reached that level so we can say that we're very close to becoming a candidate country. If I told you one more thing, and that's my deep belief, the happiness that there are European integrations, the happiness that there is one model of society reform like this society, because that there is no such thing, who knows in which direction and how fast we would have the power to reform our society; fortunately, they exist. For that very reason, we can say, we did one part of that huge job and we move on. You're saying the government said we're out of business. It's just a huge job in front of the government, it's a huge job in front of parliament, but the biggest job is in front of the whole society. So the biggest job is in front of our citizens, our economy, our institutions, especially at the local level. We have a huge job to do for this society, to make it one normal, average, peaceful, safe and cultural society, as in the families of European countries. We belong there and we go there. It is precisely the EU that will help us resolve most of the problems you have brought here with ridicule. The EU alone can help us solve the problem of wastewater. Only them. We're not going to solve it ourselves in a hundred years. It is true that 700m euros costs only to clean up wastewater created by multimillion-dollar cities. It is true that billions of euros are needed to respect everything that is only the protection of the environment in this country. Where did we get that money? We don't have that money. So, thanks to this EU, we are going to solve most of these problems. Let's at least be glad that someone's budget money for their taxpayers instead of spending their time paved the way to Sweden or to solve some dump in the Netherlands, or that I don't know what he's doing in Britain or England, sending her to this country to solve her problems. Will dumps or wastewater be solved only for me and not for you because you are against the EU? No, these are investments for our children. When we talk about sustainable development, we talk about how, thanks to these investments, we will preserve natural resources and leave a better nature for our children than we have left for generations before us. It's a big deal. At least don't make fun of it. All of this may be political criticism, but some of the foundations and foundations of what we represent here today in the spatial plan, which are deeply forward to the future and are deeply turned towards the desire of this society to change, it stands. I said this is a bridge between the past and the future. We want to leave our children a better country through this spatial plan. Don't make fun of it. It's an important thing. I take it all as a criticism. We have made a spatial plan in which we have recognised what the real situation is today and we want to look to the future and say – if we are smart, if we are bold, wise, systematic, responsible, if we stop day-to-day politics and if we want to deal with strategic designs of future policies, we will succeed in the year 2021 in Serbia as a country as described in this spatial plan. I believe it's possible and I believe this country can do it. I call on you to believe that no matter how different you are in some fundamental issues, such as whether Serbia should be in the EU or whether it should be who knows where, how your political party promotes it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45724	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Replica, MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45725	Mr. Minister, over nothing, not a single accident for which you, as part of the government and the whole of this government and the whole package since 2000, and so on, responsible, nor when I've ironed or laughed, because me and my children intend to live. As some poor local official, I have shown your European governments that a small municipality in southern Serbia, the Radical Surdulica, for its term of office has brought all strategic planning documents that you bring two or three years later, from Serbia and beyond – and a spatial plan of the municipality, and areas of exceptional qualities, and urban plans, and master plans, and rural development strategy, and a local environmental action plan and poverty reduction strategy at the local level. Don't tell me if, what and how to look at the perspective and the future and what to leave for our children. I'm asking you how many more decades are you going to repeat the same thing? Who are you to courteous society? You were given the term of office in 2000 to honor him for all the things we did in the '90s. You're in power as well as the Socialists. You've had enough time to fix all our screwups. Not that you've corrected them, but you've deepened them and expanded them. Now I ask you a simple question -- if you're left with a '90s chaos, how many more centuries does it take to clean 15% of Serbian waters instead of four? I don't have a dilemma that we can't do it alone. But this country has a problem with you. We are not happy to have the European Union. We are unhappy to have people in power who do not understand the principles of sustainable development. Politics is, Mr. Minister, when you pass the law today, after six months you change it, and you don't experience one day in your application. It's politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45726	Time. MP Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45727	My colleagues and colleagues, there is no doubt an important document ahead of us, and its adoption is an obligation under the Law on Planning and Construction. This is an interesting debate between the representatives, so to speak – old politics and Mr Dulic, because both sides are somehow right. I understand, Mr. Dulic, that what Serbia now looks like is the consequence of that 90-year policy and it is not disputed. But the fact is, the speed in removing it falls on the current government. In the case of the Planning and Construction Act, we can elaborate more than 20 minutes, as far as I have as an authorised representative. I am pleased that, if I understand correctly, I understand that you are announcing amendments to this law and that is what the LDP has been insisting on since the adoption of this law, with concrete solutions. We only hope that when we get that law, we will see our solutions incorporated into these amendments of the law because, ultimately, it is undeniable that the law and what you did not after that have additionally brought down the construction industry. The economic crisis is an economic crisis, but bad laws sometimes have the effects of the economic crisis. When it comes to the Law on Planning and Construction, and it has to do with Serbia's spatial plan, it is undoubtedly true. We'll be glad that if you send amendments to that law next month, if it's still in line with what the LDP has proposed from the beginning, we'll be even more pleased. But the fact is it's a waste of time. There are colleagues from the SRS right – it can go much faster. When you say - the inertness of bureaucracy etc., you are in a position to change it, you are in a position to do everything as a government for the past two years to fix it. The spatial plan is undoubtedly a wish list, and it is doubtless only possible to achieve money that can come from EU funds. Bulgaria is one of those couples, which are designed to eliminate unbalanced development, as Bulgaria was as developed as we are, Sofia has been developed as much as it has been and the rest has been a disaster, raised the village. But not only are the wishes of these plans enough and some kind of money. After all, it is not EU membership, as most pro-European parties claim, I would say that all are pro-European, at least in words, at this point not the goal of EU membership. EU membership, in our understanding, is the consequence of what we will do to our country. When our country looks like a European country, then we will become members. It is not jumping and skipping obstacles and entering the EU that will solve our problems. We will never get there unless we try to apply Europe and European values and standards first. If we do this and make our country a better country, which respects European standards and values, then membership will become itself the result. Among the objectives set out in this spatial plan, more balanced regional development and improvement of social cohesion are mentioned. I'm going to name this as just one example, conditionally speaking, a phrase or a beautiful wish that will not happen unless we essentially change politics in Serbia. It says here that territorial cohesion is the result of the sustainable activation of total capital and the potential of territorial units that have responsibility and capacity for this. Do our territorial units have responsibility and capacity? Unfortunately, they don't. So this is just one example, and there's a lot of them where I could say that if the policy in this country doesn't change essentially, and when I'm talking about policy change in this country, I definitely mean a comprehensive reform of society, from change in foreign policy, through change in what we call a new economy, to decentralisation, when there's going to be mechanisms and responsibility, I'm talking about local self-government, none of this is going to happen. We'll stay here and wait for some money, they'll drag us, we'll push you, they'll attack you that you're slow, you'll defend yourself by having it all found, but, princip, it'll be a glare. Certainly, when they say that you are ten years, or your party Democratic Party in power, it is certainly not true, unfortunately, it is a hole from 2004 to 2008, not because you were not in power, but because in power there was one, conditionally said, anti-European policy, we pay that price. That is why without a fundamental change in policy, and that does not only mean faster in the direction in which we all think we should go, but rather reforms in the public sector, reducing public spending, completely new fiscal and tax policies, decentralisation, reform of public enterprises, or privatisation. You know what, the spatial plan speaks and respects, conditionally speaking, some kind of advantage Serbia has, it's a comparative advantage in traffic, because we're simply in a place like this. But when it comes to rail infrastructure, we can't help but remind Mr. Minister that, for example, in that Serbian railway, taxpayers cut about 12 billion dinars each year, i.e. 120m euros. That means that money isn't used for it, it's used for, I don't know, pay or whatever. Simply, while we have such an economy, while we have such public enterprises, where out of 582 public enterprises, 580 operate with losses, which cover Serbia's taxpayers, means all citizens, how will we find the money to achieve an ambitious spatial plan of Serbia? So we will spend money further on maintaining some social peace, on something called voter purchase, and in fact such a situation generates what you call Serbia - a dump. If my colleague Ilic says he has not been working on the Kraljevo-Nish railway for two years now, then the fact is that this company with so many subsidies, which all citizens are paying for, is in principle ineffective. Now make better, cleaner, with stronger infrastructure for Serbia, in such an environment absolutely impossible. I said that this spatial plan respects partly that one comparative advantage -- traffic, but it doesn't seem to respect what might be Serbia's greatest advantage, which is agriculture, because we're not going to eat the bread from the car, there's someone who's doing it better than us. The very fact that 85% of Serbia's territory is agricultural land, this plan unfortunately does not respect enough. Why? It's not enough to write how, well, the village is empty, I don't know 700 villages over the next few years of 4,000 and something's going to disappear. It is simply not by desire but by incentive measures, smart policy to prevent, the conditionality of the village and the growth of cities, and the bigger the city, the more expensive life it is. It takes absolutely what we say - a new policy to prevent it. In some other societies that respect something called reality more, although the reality has recently become modern in Serbia and we are glad, I am talking about Kosovo, reality says that the expensive life in a big city of some people who do not have the income to live in a big city is forcing them to go out of the big city to the village, I'm talking about pensioners etc. It's kind of a policy that's being run, a natural flow of things. We can want to, as I say, prevent people from coming to a big city, but simply no one can and can do it. If a policy like this continues, which is basically just some kind of momentum of an earlier policy of industrialization and electrification, it's going to happen. We will also complain in ten years as the number of villages and the number of people living in the country decreased, but the essence is to make conditions to live outside the great city a decent, decent man in Europe in the 21st century. There's a lot of money in Europe for that. I don't know how much you know that EU funds exist for such, let's say, detailed or development projects, for example. pulls out for the development of the Internet in the country. It's not a little money at all. It's just one example. To the Internet in the country, we are far from wild dumps, macadam roads, model roads, etc. The plan we have, it cannot be achieved with the current economic policy. We can complain that Serbia's demographic picture is unfavourable, as one city of 30,000 people is lost every year, as Belgrade gets 70,000 new residents, but the fact is that it is the same for politics. In the economic situation that we have, so many unemployed, it's certainly that people will look for a chance in the city before forever, and they're more capable abroad. Without fundamental change in politics, investment in education, in youth and without what we call intergenerational solidarity, young people will continue to go either to large cities or abroad. Whoever is from a Kruševec environment will be more able to go to Kruševec, even more capable of reaching Belgrade, and those most capable will likely end up somewhere in the west. It is a process that, because of the policy that was being conducted in the 1990s, unfortunately continues. The fact is that in the last decade of the 20th century about 500,000 young people left Serbia, assuming that each of them had at least one child, few who returned, these are people of that age, which means that there are now a million people less than they could have been in Serbia. Wrong policy is responsible for this. Unfortunately, the momentum continues, and those four years from Djindjic's murder to the formation of the government gave their tribute. What we're not happy about is what's been done over the past two years than what's supposed to be done, but very slowly. If it hadn't been for the votes from Brussels, which dragged this government towards European integration and us from the LDP, which we pushed from behind, we wouldn't have made it this far. In any case, ambitious plans and general service plans to come true or not. When such a plan is adopted by a parliament, it cannot be such a dilemma: to be realized or not to be realized. We will do everything to make it happen, but while we are in opposition, we can only propose, offer solutions and criticise. That's what we do, but what's waiting for us, we all have to do. We skipped one obstacle yesterday. We from the LDP will do everything we can to ensure that this situation, or this status in which we are now, lasts as short as possible, but certainly in the government, it is the responsibility to get to EU candidate status as soon as possible, but that does not solve the problem in itself. We must bring these European values to Serbia. Now, if we're gonna be able as a society with this government or that government, it's up to us to do it. As far as we're concerned, we think this is an ambitious plan, that, because it's ambitious, it's more like a set of good wishes. We'd like it to come true. We are not happy that only 4% of wastewater is being purified, but without essential reform and new policies and new economies, this will not be possible. Unfortunately, Mr. Dulic, in these two years, what we call a new policy, or a special new economy, has little to do with it. Let's just say, we're all talking about how in the next 10 years, we have to adapt our structure to what's waiting for us. that much more, a higher percentage of social product depends on exports. That means some kind of new re-industrialization, which is what we LDP are up for, too, here in this plan don't see, how can I say, the vision that it's necessary. Somehow, the assessment of the situation is undeniable, the current situation and it is not good, but how we will get to this pure Serbia that is a decent place to live, it is not clearly indicated in this plan, or in this plan is missing not as Serbia should look, but as such Serbia does. That's why I said that re-industrialisation and agriculture have been neglected in this plan, traffic is not and it's the only thing that's good.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45728	17 minutes and 45 seconds of time have been used by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. National MP Bojana Stanojevic wants a word. Do you want to use your right by 2 p.m.? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45729	The President-in-Office, Mr Minister, fellow Members of Parliament, is today ahead of us with a proposal for a spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2010 to 2020 as one of the most important development plans for this country. Through this plan, there should be a basis for defining the strategy at the state and regional level, to the extent that it has an impact on the spatial development of Serbia and its regions. The spatial planning is a new form of planning in both the world and ours. Worldly frameworks begin to develop in the 40s of the 20th century, and we start to develop about 20 years later. Today, after all these years of spatial planning, it can be said that it is one of the few forms of human action characterized by interest, diversity of problems, but at the same time and responsibility, creativity, willingness to compromise. Land and space are only two specific concepts of nature, and this land as a natural good and space as a general good, arranged and equipped for adequate purposes. Both land and space are subject to general development policies and are being edited, improved and directed to relevant planning documents. The spacious plan of the Republic of Serbia, which is still in force, was adopted in 1996, and its work began in 1989. It's a plan that was made in the years of the fall of old Yugoslavia, the absence of defined state borders, a changed state order. In addition, these were years of war conflicts in Serbia's environment, as well as years of exposure to sanctions from the international community, including the economic blockade. The big question is how much this plan that was made in such conditions, and overall planning, could have been one of the mechanisms for adapting to changes in particularly crisis situations and major uncertainty in each respect. From 1996 to 2010, fundamental changes occurred in economic, social and institutional development, as well as in the areas of natural resource management, environmental protection and regional integration. The conditions have certainly been met and there is a need for a new spatial plan to be developed, in order to determine the future directions for Serbia's spatial development, and in the end, this is also an obligation defined by the Constitution and the Law on Planning and Construction. I looked back a little bit in my speech on the spatial plan so far, i.e. the difficult conditions in which it was made, in which it was applied, to point to the fact that the planning team had a difficult job ahead of it. He faced a lot of problems in the very way of using space in Serbia, and should have put forward a proposal on how to change it through a new plan. Point 2) gives a very detailed general assessment of the situation and after this analysis it is quite clear how responsible, demanding and difficult the work on the plan was. While the minister explained this in detail in his exposé, it is not burning that the adoption of a new law on the spatial plan allows for the gradual spatial development of Serbia through the basic objectives, such as more balanced regional development, regional competitiveness and accessibility, sustainable use of natural resources, environmental protection, adequate use of natural and cultural goods and Serbia's spatial integration into the European environment. It is very important that, after the adoption of this law, it takes place with the creation and adoption of planning documents for the territorial unit's ropes. Some of my colleagues mentioned the adoption of a Republic spatial plan, not to be adopted regionally, but this is a roof plan, and after its adoption, plans for lower order, or plans for regions, cities and municipalities, have yet to be adopted. Only then will everyone network and connect around the joint programme, which was just given in the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia. The well-designed spatial and urban plans of local communities are a condition for their proper development and are the basis for a number of projects that each local community would apply to the Republic for funding. What is very important, the law stipulates the government's obligation to adopt a programme of implementation of a five-year spatial plan and to bring the spatial plan into line with Serbia's state of social and economic development for five years. Also, each year, the government submits a report to the National Assembly on the implementation of the spatial plan. Thus transparency is made possible in the process of applying the plan and it is possible for the plan not to be a dead letter on paper and at least to be a limiting factor, as it has been very often known to be. Finally, I will vote to respect the leading principles for the sustainable spatial development of the European continent, adopted at the 12th meeting of the European Conference of Ministers responsible for Regional Planning in September 2000 in Hanover. Through this important document, co-operation with the central, eastern and Southeast countries that are going through reforms is recommended to help them justify regional government and administrative bodies, all in order to facilitate the spatial integration of different regions of Europe. It is recommended that the guiding principles should be applied as a basis for national and regional planning and for spatial development measures. Given that when this most important spatial plan act was drawn up, all our problems, our personalities, needs, and European principles were followed at the same time, I think we will get a spatial plan that will make Serbia start to change its attitude towards land and space and very often the bad practice of using them. At the same time, I urge all competent institutions to ensure adequate application of this plan. Active co-operation between the ministry of spatial planning, Serbia's Engineering Chamber, competent institutions, as well as local communities can be a guarantee of successful implementation of the plan. It is particularly important that local self-governments, respecting the basic principles given in the Republic's spatial plan, complete their planning acts, to which the Law on Planning and Construction has obliged them to allow for the proper spatial development of Serbia. In the day to vote, the ZES parliamentary group will vote for the adoption of the RS spatial plan law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45730	Seven minutes and 55 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. At this point, we have completed the course of the session, which defines that the word is held by the presidents or by the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, and I would like to inform you that they are in agreement with Article 96(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly until the opening of a principled search for a word in writing, and with a number of MPs submitted parliamentary groups -- the parliamentary group of minorities, the New Serbia MP group, the G17 Plus MP group, the LDP parliamentary group, the DSS, the SRS parliamentary group, the Progressive Serbia parliamentary group, the ZES parliamentary group. I'm setting a break. At 15.00 hours, we continue our work in the afternoon debate, and according to the order of the MPs, according to the application for a word in the general search of the draft law on the spatial plan of the Republic of Slovenia from 2010 to 2020. The first registered speaker is MP Bajram Omeragic, followed by MP Miroslav Markicevic. Thank you. [[After break – 15:00]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session's work in the afternoon, debated in the order of the Members of the People's Parliament, and according to the application for a word in the principled review of the draft law on the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia from 2010 to 2020. The first reported is MP Bajram Omeragic. Since he is not currently in the O.R., then the word has a People's MP Miroslav Markicevic, followed by a folk MP, Miroslav Pejica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45732	Dear Vice President, I don't know if I should ask you at first, should we wait for the minister or if he will come to my discussion? It would be nice for him to be there. Okay, you didn't listen to me, obviously. I was going to ask you if Mr. Secretary would be present, since I see that he is often absent? It'd be nice to have him at least while I'm talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45733	National MP, the proposing representative has rights, like everyone else, on occasional breaks. Minister Oliver Dulic is in the building, is present during most of the session, all other obligations he has in the building, including contacts with journalists, other obligations, contact with other MPs, he performs during the session, as well as all other MPs. Therefore, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have not been broken and I ask you to continue your presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45734	Okay. There is nothing left for me but to note that when New Serbia's MPs speak, for some reason, Mr. Minister is not present. Perhaps because of the arguments we have, and perhaps for some other reason. However, I will discuss and talk about this spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia for the next ten years as if the minister were present. I would not speak in the style of writing at all the legal projects that come to us from the Government of the Republic of Serbia as legal proposals here, and I would not want because of the style of different people, different styles, and because of the scope of this document, I would just like to say in advance that I would like to be a citizen of Serbia, not only as a national MP, that what it says here in these three hundred and something sides, to make 20% happen, and we will all be much better and much better. I have carefully read this proposal of the Republic of Serbia's spatial plan for the next 10 years and because of the shortness of time that we, i.e. as a representative of New Serbia, are having, at the moment I am speaking, and perhaps because of the lack of expertise, even though I have been informed of the spatial plan, I will say some of the things that I have come up with about the tax and I hope that, Mr. Minister, will take the opportunity to rephrase and respond to me, and I believe many of the citizens of Serbia who I believe will be interested in what I'm asking here. On page 154 we have one table number 28 above which it writes – locations, cities with potential for urban reconstruction. I'm a little caught in the eye, and I think the minister will see from what I'm about to say, what I've got in my eye in this table. To conclude, I read his proposal very carefully. So I don't want to mention the city to citizens who don't see what I'm talking about right now, because we don't have what we do in some courts, so everyone can see. To say, on the one hand, the cities in Serbia that have that title and that status are listed, mostly. Then he says, "Assessing general attraction, potential." Then the potentials and the good qualities and predispositions of these cities are listed, and then, on the other hand, the table of what is bad and what should be restored, or done in these cities. What's gotten into my eye, finally, that's what I'm gonna say? In one city, in all its ambience, and in one city, there is an ambience. Maybe it's a professional question, but to explain, what's the difference between ambience and ambience? First of all, it fell for about one city, it says – the ambience and, now listen well where I saw the ultimate politicization, agile local self-government. What does it mean, that in these other cities, just to remind you that Belgrade, Valjevo, Cačak, Pogorjevac, Smederevo, Novi Sad, there is no epithet of agile local self-government? I'm beginning to suspect someone from that town. A gentleman from the ministry who sits next to the minister and writes very carefully, I'd like him to tell me on what basis they've concluded that the city is agile local self-government, and in other cities, say, not agile local self-government? That's one reason. Another reason, since this is a spatial plan from 2010 to 2020, how do you know what local self-government will be, say, 2018? This is a ten-year document, right? Maybe by then it'll be the most agile local self-government in history, and maybe it'll be a bad local self-government. What you wrote was supposed to check, to see if they paid for the last five years of city lighting, they're so agile. They're agile on television, and in reality, they're not. I put that as a remark, and maybe I'm a little bit of a local patriot, since I'm from Chuck. I expected that in these good qualities, Chačka would be much more indicated. Next, we have on page 165, that something I'd like to talk about a little bit more. On page 165, under point 5 is social development and social cohesion. I'm just gonna let the citizens and the people who watch this transmission know what it's all about. So the first paragraph that has about five or six rows. The phenomenon of social development implies, it is written in a spatial plan: improving the well-being and quality of life of citizens, changes in society, norms, institutions that will make society fairer and more accessible to all members of society. Social development is based on economic justice and social inclusion, with the aim of reducing poverty, etc. Very nice words, is there a normal man who won't support this? Mr. Minister, but unfortunately, yesterday or yesterday, we have an official from the competent institutions that the number of citizens, those below the poverty threshold, to say, which are the largest poverty, in 2000 and 2010, in 2010, more poor citizens below the poverty threshold than in 2000, and in 1996, as we can see, the last spatial plan was adopted. So 14 years we've been doing something, the state's been working, everyone's trying, nobody's work I want to challenge, especially the people who wrote this, I believe they wrote it for the best. But isn't it really a question for all of us to ask ourselves here, including the MPs in the National Assembly, that after ten years of democratic change, I don't know which reforms, in 2010, we have more citizens below the poverty threshold than in 2000. Someone might say we're free of paint. I said "free paint" because I kind of took part in it because I was a member of the ruling coalitions. On page 219, I'm in a hurry because of the time I have, so it's about my end, Mr. Minister, and for citizens who don't have this spatial plan that I have here, it's about categorizing the airport. For example, in the municipality of Kraljevo, we have a sports and school airport, so one mentions the airport of Brodjevci, and one airport of Kraljevo, Morava. So it's military airports. As far as I know, there's an airport in the King, and it's the Boats. Why do I mention this? Because, in addition to the list of these airports, you wrote behind the list - strategic priorities, projects by 2014. So, the boatman's gone. Therefore, I warn the Mayor of the Kings not to manipulate citizens and some pre-election promises anymore, let him promise something else. This spatial plan shows that the airport in Lađevci is not a priority until 2014. He abused it for political purposes and the Secretary of Defense and doesn't know who it is. The intentions of Velimir Ilic, the former minister and the future, I believe, were truly sincere and there was almost a realization, the conversion of that military airport into a civilian, which would be very significant for the whole region. Finally, as this time passes so quickly, I would like to ask the minister, to give him the opportunity to at least announce one good news for the citizens of Serbia, especially those who have submitted legalisation requests, since, as far as I know, for those who can, under some privileged conditions, have until December 31st. At a pace that goes, Mr. Minister, I'm not saying it's your fault, it turns out that in a thousand years, not everyone who's filed legalization demands will be able to. What's it cost the government and you to propose that you pass one regulation to extend it for another year? I think it would be good and acceptable for everyone, especially for those citizens who have filed, so they're accepting the law, maybe they don't like everything, they accept, they want to legalize, but now only two months. I think you could do that, I gave you a chance, not to think I'm just your critic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45735	A minute and ten seconds remain available to the parliamentary group. The word is a folk letter from Miroslav Pejica, and after it is the People's Messenger Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45736	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the need for the Proposal for a Law on Spatial Planning to be found before us today has arisen for several reasons, and it is essential that it rests in our constitutional obligation to adopt such an important document, as well as in the fact that the previous law on this important issue was passed back in 1996. It is certain that such an old and overcome document, which, due to the various political, economic and demographic changes that have taken place in these areas for the last 15 years, does not allow for Serbia's successful competitive positioning in the region, as well as the integration of our country into the EU. It is precisely because of the above, that I consider the very important intention of the promoter to specify in the long term the way in which the Republic of Serbia organises, regulates and uses space while at the same time harmonising economic and social development with economic, ecological, cultural opportunities, or restrictions on its territory. It has not been easy for the promoter to reconcile the demands, possibilities and needs of many segments of our country and society, respecting many differences, you will agree, we are still showing political maturity today by adopting a spatial plan and choosing the path of our country's development over the next ten years. It is interesting to point out that this legislative proposal for a spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia is in the way of a change from a strong centralist structure to a decentralisation and a model of even regional development. From all this, the need for a new way of taking responsibility and initiatives at various levels, starting from republican, regional bodies to local self-government. Starting with the view that each region's needs and capabilities are completely different and dependent on many factors, each area of the Republic of Serbia has the responsibility to adapt its capacities and resources effectively and quickly to the opportunities that can be from different areas, such as traffic connections, infrastructure projects and facilities without which it is impossible to build a future of co-operation between cities and regions, up to cross-border co-operation. As important as this type of co-operation is, we can best bear witness to those who come from the border areas of the Republic of Serbia, where, in addition to the shared use of natural resources, the joint determination of priority traffic connections, the possibility of directing joint efforts towards strengthening economic and economic capacities of mutual interest has been opened. In addition, pre-accession EU funds are just wide open to projects based on this type of co-operation. I sincerely believe that the offered model of spatial planning at the level of the Republic, with the support of regional and local structures, will make the efforts put forward to lead to a more balanced and successful development of Serbia as a whole. The cities are scheduled to be the engine of Serbia's development around which villages are gathered, which will be an integral part with built roads, which would achieve one of the basic goals, which is more balanced regional development and improved social cohesion. As an MP from Loznica, it is a great pleasure that, reading this proposed spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia, I have found a lot of segments that are represented in the local spatial plan that we adopted in 2005, and now we are expected to change and supplement that spatial plan and align with this spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia that we are talking about today. In doing so, I primarily think of Loznica as one of the centres of development of western Serbia, which has been unjustly neglected in the past. With the great help of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, by renewing, building infrastructure and some cultural facilities, this support is certainly looked at in this proposal for a law on spatial planning, where Loznica is recognised as a means of co-operation, connecting between the municipalities of the region, and at the same time as an area with significant energy and water potentials located in the Drina River. In addition, cultural heritage and tourist potentials of our region are given great importance, and in the future the possibility of the exploitation of lithium, which enrichs our area around the Adriatic River. It is of paramount importance to build first-row state roads, where one of such state roads will connect western Serbia with Vojvodina because the future is impossible to build without infrastructure. Finally, I want to say that we will support the adoption of this law because the aim of its implementation is for Serbia to be regionally balanced, sustainable economic development, competitive and socially stable, infrastructureally with protected cultural and natural heritage and in the best possible way integrated into the environment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45737	Six minutes and 15 seconds of the parliamentary group's time has been used. The word has the People's MP Kenan Hajdarevic, followed by MP Bajram Omeragic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45738	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the law on the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia has become one of the internal generators of the crisis and economic stagnation, as a result of the provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction. That is why we were pleased with today's statement by Mr. Minister that the coming month will be an amendment to the Law on Planning and Construction, and I hope that these amendments and additions will go in the direction of those proposals that LDP has already made to amend that law on planning and construction. Now I would like to refer a little more to the law on the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia. I am sorry that we did not, in addition to this proposal for a law on the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Minister, get a strategy for the spatial development of the Republic of Serbia from 2009 to 2020, because in this strategy we can read and this is an extremely important part of that strategy, which may be missing in this spatial plan, why the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia, or that law adopted in 1996, has not been implemented. It says, among other things, I will now quote to you: "The spatial plan is not programmed, organised and systematically implemented, nor has all necessary support been provided for it. This is a typical example of a development document whose nominal objectives did not match the objectives of key actors, which affected its preparation, adoption and achievement, or a typical example of a development document for which there was no political will necessary in such development efforts." From this one finding, or sentence, we see that it is necessary for this proposal of the law on the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia to succeed by 2020, not only to remain a dead letter on paper, that there is a political will and a desire for it to be implemented, on the one hand, that it is necessary to have a clear political discontinuity, which in the 1990s our society has made the most unhappy society in Europe and the world. As a result, the LDP happily received yesterday's news that will allow Serbia's faster integration into the EU, on the one hand, and on the other hand, yesterday's news obliges us to work more on the European integration process, because only those integrations will allow this document that we are talking about today, which is this law, to live by 2020, i.e. I hope that in 2020 we will not be able to be able to allow one of the MPs of the then Serbian Parliament to read one similar finding and one sentence on this law. Mr. Minister, you said in the opening statement that this law is a document of all strategies and development documents, and we can conclude that we have one inflation of various strategies, development documents and there is a logical question here. Namely, what is the relationship between these strategies and the development documents and this spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia? Are those strategies and development documents that are not in line with this spatial plan in correlation, will they have to agree? What I would like to point out as one objection to this spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia, we of the LDP consider to be a whole chapter on Serbia's regionalisation. There seems to be a lot of talk about Serbia's regionalisation here and here in this Assembly and in the public, but there is no serious public debate that should allow and tell what level of decentralisation Serbia needs today. We are in a situation where we are all talking about introducing this middle level of government, and from month to month, year to year, this basic level of decentralisation, our local self-government is at an extremely low level, whether it's financial conditions and local self-government today or whether it's functions that these local self-governments take over, and they don't have enough resources to perform that function adequately. Also, if we are talking about functional urban areas and the plan presented in this spatial plan of RS, we are coming up with a situation that a good part of RS municipalities is not included in urban areas at all. I think it is necessary to create such functional urban areas that would be excluded from those rules that would be defined by this plan of the Republic of Serbia. I am specifically referring to municipalities located along the very border of the Republic of Serbia, such as Priboj, Prijepolje, Nova Varoš, Sjenica, Ivanjica, and among other things could be urban areas. Then, if we are talking about population migration, you are really right that this permanent migration from smaller environments leads to the depopulation of a particular segment of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. What we need to see as one contradiction to the government of the Republic of Serbia to stop these migrations, are those cities where we have a relatively large number of young citizens. That's where I think of Novi Pazar and Tutin. New Pazar is one of the youngest cities in Europe, but the conditions in which these young people live today are below every minimum. I think these are the only municipalities in Serbia where elementary school classes take place in three shifts, i.e. third-minute students leaving school after ten o'clock in the evening. On the other hand, these are cities and municipalities where there are many young people, and they have the highest percentage of the unemployed. We are coming up with these strange relations in the drive of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to stop this poor migration and economic conditions in which these young people should stay and live. If we talk about various infrastructure projects that are listed here in the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia, we come up with strange situations to talk about restoring railway infrastructure, and not a single sentence tells us what kind of situation the Serbian Railways are as a public enterprise. So, not only Serbia's Railways, but other public enterprises, which in Serbia, first, are monopolies on the one hand, and on the other, extremely large losers, namely Mr Ostojic said in the afternoon debate. We are in a situation where we subsidise the railway from the Republika Srpska budget with about 12 billion dinars, and that the infrastructure in that railway traffic is falling from year to year. A logical question arises as to where these subsidies are going, or whether what is foreseen by the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia will go from subsidies to other public enterprises so far or whether some additional funds from some EU funds will be sought, on the one hand. On the other hand, whether we have a strategy that will allow these public enterprises to no longer be big losers or to introduce competition. Local self-government, according to Mr. Minister, had the possibility of public insight. I would like to conclude once again, as I received information from some local self-government leaders, that they had no opportunity for public insight into the draft spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia. If we talk about energy, which is one of the important chapters in the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia, it is evident that the facts given in the RS spatial plan go in favour of the LDP's advocate to the revision of the interstate agreement between Serbia and Russia on the oil industry, i.e. very soon we as a state will become an energy addict from another country's monopoly. I don't think that's good for Serbia's future. What's good in this spatial plan is this chapter that talks about the Republic of Serbia industry, or industrialisation of the RS, to call it that, and I think it's an extremely good definition that should allow for greater industrial development in the Republic of Serbia. We in the LDP say that in this industrialisation we must also take care of some of the major systems that existed and remain in the Republic of Serbia. These major systems that have failed, or are failing, are not failing because of their incompetence, but because of the state and government policy, which has managed to destroy both them and the market in which they are located. As I said at the very beginning, it is policy that determines the economic development of each country. That is why we as LDP and have given a series of measures called "new policy, a new economy", because without clear political profiling of Serbia, as the European states and states that are to become members of the NATO Pact, there is no economic improvement here in Serbia. If we want a better economy, we have to work harder. If we do more, we need to find markets where we can sell our products, and those markets can only be found in the neighborhood. So when we talk about co-operation, the cross-border co-operation of the region in Serbia with the regions of neighbouring countries, we must first change our foreign policy, which must make our neighbours good partners, not as we are in a situation today that we have extremely bad relations with Bosnia, Montenegro and Macedonia. That way we won't even have a market where we can place our products. If we are talking about agriculture, I think in agriculture we must also tell the truth to this society, and that truth is very simple, that Serbia as a agricultural state has the potential for really great development. It is only enough that if they invested 5 billion euros in agriculture, it would allow the entire deficit that the Republic of Serbia has at its annual level to be roasted. These are the advantages that agriculture has, and the shortcomings are the poor agricultural policy, which has been going on since 2004. We, for example, must openly say that the lack of milk is not the result of any monopoly, but simply because we do not have the cows that this milk should produce. In fact, in five years, we slaughtered over 150,000 cattle, worth about 250m euros, representing almost one and a half of Serbia's agricultural budget. In fact, we have destroyed one and a half agricultural budget of the annual Republic of Serbia. This best shows how this agrarian, or agricultural policy was run badly. Finally, it is necessary to say that in this spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia, at least when it comes to the schedule of these public services, it is necessary, at least once, to say that the intensity in the Republic of Serbia should and must be a departisation of public functions, or we must make all public functions departiscated, because that is the only way we can create a strong state that can in any way provide clear answers to the needs of citizens. Mr. Minister, you were talking about the functional integration of villages and cities in your opening area, and that's where we support you, but I, for example, gave an amendment where two-thirds of the Municipality of Priboj is not at all connected to the center of Priboj. On the other hand, citizens from two-thirds of the municipality of Prboj have to cross the border four times daily to reach their centre, on the one hand, while on the other hand, if we are talking about this railway infrastructure and the extremely important road route of Bar-Belgrade, there is probably a rink in the municipality of Probation that can break the entire railway and highway leading from Novi Pazar to Sarajevo. At the very end, I must mention the cultural heritage, that the cultural heritage of the municipalities where I come from, Priboj, Prijepolje, Nova Varosh, is not included in an adequate way in the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia. I think you had to do it that way. I think it is also very important because of the feelings that citizens of that part of Serbia have, that the border of Serbia ends on Zlatibor, or the King, and that this whole area of Sandzak is a quarantine where individuals or individual structures try to heal their mastery complexes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45739	The People's MP Bajram Omeragic has the word, followed by MP Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45740	Dear Presidency, Honored Minister Dulic, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Bosniak List and on behalf of the minority parliamentary group, I congratulate Serbia's citizens on another step of acceleration towards the EU. On behalf of the Bosniak List, I can say that what we promised the citizens, together with this government, our support, will do everything possible to speed up that path. The spacious plan of the RS, not only in our country, everywhere in the world with a spatial plan, is trying in the area of urban planning, decentralisation and other areas, to arrange something in a strategic way, in one way that it can be recognised perhaps a decade in advance, that many projects in the areas of infrastructure, businesses and other social areas can be easily routed, and that some things do not change over a short period of time. We have heard here that there may be some changes and additions soon, if nothing else, some future change in the Constitution will likely affect some changes. The Bosniak list, as you know, voted in a referendum and urged citizens to support the RS Constitution. Of course, the constitution reflects the situation, both politically and economically, at this point, however, it will likely have some changes to respond to the goal we are heading towards the EU. So I'd start with decentralisation, which I think the spatial plan should have been more appropriate to resolve some issues. In addition, I would like to say that the Bosniak List will support such a bill, because we believe that most of the things dealing with this law have really been dealt with in the best possible way. Of course, restrictions from the Constitution and some other acts had to be respected. We advocate that decentralisation in RS be at European level, on a level that simply in principle – anything that can be done at a local level should be brought down from a republican level, that the government is simply closer to the citizens and that some public functions can be met at as low a level as possible. In this regard, we advocate that many institutions, as the Federal Republic of Germany does, as many countries in Europe do, are dislocated from Belgrade. I would quote the late writer Duško Radovic, wrote once an aphorism that read – in communism we will all live in Belgrade. Therefore, decentralisation, regional development and the development of underdeveloped areas have found a lot of places in this spatial plan and we are extremely pleased about it, but we believe that more has to be done, to suggest that many institutions are dislocated and that simply in an underdeveloped area we get some institutions that can be a moto development and that simply by the very existence of these parts of Serbia it is shown that in fact RS is present in an adequate way in order to speed up social, economic and overall development of the RS. As far as traffic infrastructure is concerned, we are extremely pleased that the route of Belgrade-Bar, which passes through the municipality of Sjenica, or Dug Poljan, has entered this plan, where it crosses the territory of the Republic of Montenegro. We believe this highway will be the engine of the development of Sandzak as one of the most underdeveloped parts of our country. In that sense, we urge another Government of the Republic of Serbia to, as negotiations are being held these days with possible contractors, related to credit arrangements, for conditions, to speed up the process, to make the highway take place as soon as possible. It is also an interest of Chačka, Požega, Sjenica, Novi Pazar and, as I say, a great deal of Serbia that will benefit from this highway, that what we produce in Sjenica, Čačka and Požega and in all the parts where this highway will pass, these goods will reach the market, and that both goods and people can have as much communication as possible and to cheap the traffic at the lowest possible level. As far as Prepolje-Sjenica, Uvac points, we think that this is of great importance for these two municipalities and that after the reconstruction of the Tutin-Novi Pazar-Sjenica-Aljinovići road, this route will be extremely important to continue towards Priboj, Novi Varosha, that this regional infrastructure in Sandzak will be reconstructed and thus we make this momentum of economic development run in this most underdeveloped area. What is extremely important is that there is also a connection here on the highway to Macedonia, which is from the point of Ribarica, down towards Kosovo Mitrovica and Pristina in Macedonia, to join the road to the East, and that this second leg that goes towards Uzic, towards BiH, thus we can achieve communication in the region, which will speed up our trade, as we know that in the CEFTA countries Serbia has a surplus. We should seek to keep this surplus in exchange for goods and to make Serbia a leader in industrial production in the region and thus increase our gross national income, thus increasing the general standard of Serbia-Sandzak citizens. As far as infrastructure is concerned, it is extremely important for us that this law also provides for the final work of a bypass around Novi Pazar. Since this law also provides that New Pazar Maltenes is so protected that there are problems to develop, because as a cultural and historical monument, many streets cannot be extended, many of the cars cannot be arranged, since it is protected as a cultural and historical monument, this bypass should solve this issue and it is extremely important that this proposal is accepted. As far as the railway infrastructure is concerned, I want to say, in addition to going into the reconstruction and reconstruction of the Belgrade-Bar artery, which is extremely important for Sandzak, one more thing is that it is to make a cut of the railway line from Raška to Novi Pazar. (President: National MP, the time available to your parliamentary group has been used. I'm done. The pipeline and Mine Station are of paramount importance, they entered into this plan. In the end, I would like to ask Minister Dulic about Mount Golia. The goal is to develop, to be protected, but Tara is protected and there are hotels and private accommodations, and today we have nursing homes in Golia and we need to protect them, to be a national park if necessary, but we can't afford to protect bears, wolves and other animals, and people are moving from Golia. There are other nursing homes that have nothing to live on. (President: People's MP, please speak for a minute longer. We have to create what we have on Tara and on Zlatibor and on other mountains, and we have to do everything we have done in other parts of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45741	The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic, and then by Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45742	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today on the agenda of the Serbian Parliament we have a spatial lan, basic, to say, strategic and plan document, a basic plan for sustainable development, a plan that is the basis for a better life in Serbia. The adoption of a new spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia has been waiting since 1996, so it was high time for this plan to be adopted, because no serious state can develop properly if there is no established basic development direction and the quality of such spatial plans depends on the quality of life that is living in these countries, so this is certainly the case with both Serbia and that this arrangement, which is achieved by a spatial plan, will contribute to Serbia's much faster development. What is another major importance of the spatial plan is the abolition of the arbitration of the administration, as we have so far had great opportunities for corruption by the fact that the most significant infrastructure facilities depended on how certain administrators would make individual decisions. Now this will no longer be the case, as the spatial plan accurately determines what is and how it can be built in the Republic of Serbia. I would like to commend the promoter, above all, on an unsatisfactory proposal that respects the specificities of all regions of Serbia, a proposal that assumes even regional development. Its consistent application will ensure that Serbia's discharge, i.e. those rural areas where there are no good conditions for life, where there is no adequate infrastructure. The spatial plan is the basis for living better throughout Serbia, not just on several of the most urban and orderly points. What is particularly important, which I would particularly like to point out, in this proposal is an assessment of the state of spatial development of the Republic of Serbia, which is carried out by an integrated method, which means taking the influences of the social, economic and environmental factors. This is very important because for the first time we have an ecological strategy that is included in a plan document that is at the level of the Republic. It is certain that the environmental assessment, as we could see in the spatial plan, would have been better if we had had more understanding of the environmental aspect before and that we had taken more care of the environment, because surely no economic, nor infrastructure profit could endanger people's lives and health, can be an obstacle to living healthier in Serbia. What I particularly point out in this proposal for a spatial plan is the part that concerns the country's infrastructure, because the region I come from, 47% of the population in the royal region lives right in the country. Bringing infrastructure connections to the village is a very important thing that should reduce the emptying of the village in the coming period and allow citizens in Serbia's villages to live as well as in the city, i.e. that they also have roads, sewers, water, telephone and internet connections, as well as citizens in the most urban parts. It is certainly an assumption of people's normal lives, and it is certain that it will allow more people to stay in the country, and perhaps some of the urban areas return to rural areas. The traffic corridors that are assumed by this plan allow the whole of Serbia to be connected by highways in some way and that all citizens have easy access to European corridors, which will allow them to live better, because connecting to corridors means less costs for potential investors, which will allow these investors to have more opportunities to invest in these rural areas, which in the present period, due to poor infrastructure equipment, due to poor roads, have been bypassed by investors. As for the region I come from, I am particularly stressing the importance of the Belgrade-Preljina highway and Preljina-Pojate highway. This is what life means for the citizens of Kraljev, Čačka, Kruševac, Trstenik, Vranjačka Banja and that is something that allows the population of this region to expect that in the future, when these highways are built, they will have more investment in these regions and that a huge number of unemployed who have been created by shutting down large industrial gigans will find a way to provide themselves with a naked existence. As for the city of kings, we have no objections to the proposal of a spatial plan. We even want to commend the promoters for respecting all our objections. As for the civil airport Morava, a colleague mentioned earlier, I would like to inform him that a study of the economic viability of Morava airport has been made. He created USAID along with 12 municipalities of the civil airport "Boats". The name of the airport is Morava, and it's a civilian airport, mixed, civil-military, so two airports, two names. The second thing, the study is positive, economic. It was made on a proposal by the Ministry of Defense initiative. Even the works started, so no information about it starting in 2014 is correct and I'm sure everyone can see for themselves, go to "shipmen" and see if the work on the expansion of the runway has already started. This airport has special importance for the citizens of this region. Around it, some 1,200,000 people live in its 100km environment, Čačak, Kraljevo, Kragujevac, Novi Pazar, and I am sure that the completion of this civilian airport will create new opportunities for economic progress and economic growth throughout the region. MEPs of the ZES Group will support this proposal for a spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia, because we think we should finally set a course for Serbia's sustainable development.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45743	Seven minutes and 30 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. It'll be later. In that case, Zika Gojkovic, followed by MP Sasa Maksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45744	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, today we have on the agenda a proposal for a law on the spatial plan, which represents a large material and a very high-quality document. After all, it is an assessment of almost all the experts who have made known about today's subject. When we have one of these big documents on the agenda and it's being discussed, then it's quite realistic that there are various gaps, but the failures that amendments can fix. That's why I feel the need to, even though it's a principle debate, not talk about all the positive effects of a document like this, but to point out only one particular case, which I have submitted to the amendment, which I think might take a little bit more time than that would allow me to spend when I'm talking about the amendment. This is about the fact that the proposal for a law on the spatial plan did not include the reconstruction and construction of shares of the country's first-class Vrbas-Kula-Sombor, the state border of Bački Breg, with a connection to the planned southern highway through Hungary. By including in the spatial plan, i.e. The implementation of this road project would improve traffic opportunities, cut the road by more than 100 km, speed up the traffic of goods, which would be of particular interest to potential investors, as an industrial zone would be done alongside this traffic facility. In addition, what is important would improve the environment, relieve traffic on a master road with a daily frequency of about 12,000 vehicles, especially through three populated places in a sugar tail campaign, which is mainly towed by heavy trucks. All of us who come from there these days have the opportunity to meet with a lot of trucks, mostly overloaded. The construction of this road section would move traffic from the city streets, which is extremely important, because a large number of traffic accidents with large, heavy trucks usually end tragically, and this time I would only single out a section of the Red-Sivac road, where traffic accidents almost always end tragically. If that road is not found in the spatial plan, the initiative to expand the border crossing with Hungary is also at stake at the Bačka Breg crossing, whose resolution of Sombor municipality was launched from a dead end after many years. If we look at the geographically, the entire Western District, headed by Somboro, has a very good position. This should represent the potential not only of Somboro, but of the entire region. Unfortunately, because of the long-standing failure to invest in the road infrastructure network and in the first place the lack of understanding of the former MUP and former leaders in the Ministry of Infrastructure today we have a region that instead of representing one great potential, it represents, unfortunately, the appendix. It should also be said that it is a region and a municipality that has a huge area, when it comes to bordering Hungary, which is in the EU today, that we are bordering Croatia, which will be in the EU tomorrow and that next to the airport that Sombor owns, many other things, huge potential, I suppose we will all agree. It is also important to point out that this route shortens the way towards the EU countries and cities where there are the most of our citizens living there, primarily I think of the Vienna-Minhen direction and the north. The reconstruction and construction of the road route would, of course, require the engagement of the necessary funds from the budget, but it should also be said that it is an advantage that, for the construction of the Sombor-Baja road (Baja, the city of Hungary), the EU Commission has approved Sombor 320,000 euros for cross-border co-operation projects, and this money should cover the cost of planning and preparing project documentation for this time, which is already largely being built on the Hungarian side. I would like to point out that perhaps the committee that decided at the ministry, when the priorities for the spatial plan were decided, did not have this overall information in mind, since this information on this assistance arrived only before the end of the public debate and I assume that local self-governments were not sufficiently prepared and subdued with the information, in order to significantly transfer their demands and point to the possibility of one such priority. I will also remind you that Vuk Draskovic, as foreign minister, has made great efforts to create a kind of understanding on the Hungarian side, when it comes to such a kind of cross-border co-operation. For several years, the County Committee has been trying to point out the importance of this project, not only when it comes to the potential of this region, but also about all of our citizens from all over Serbia who are closely connected to our diaspora or are part of it. In this business, we have had the great help of our colleagues from DHSS, who have been very active in the work for the past months, and Mr Vladan Batic, I think, has submitted a very similar amendment in order to bring this idea closer to the ministry, believing that a failure was made after all. Unfortunately, there hasn't been enough hearing so far, even though it's a matter here, I think it's completely obvious. However, this is a great opportunity to correct this mistake, which has been going on for a very long time and has nothing to do with this current ministry. I have no doubt, Mr. Minister, that you will objectively consider this proposal, and since you are a Duchess, you are well aware of what I was talking about today.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45745	Six minutes and 45 seconds used by the MP's group. The word has Minister Oliver Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45746	Very short. After considering, we decided to accept your amendment, so it would become an integral part of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45747	The word has been given by MP Sasa Maksimovic, followed by MP Maja Lausevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45748	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, the Honorable Chairman, the draft of Serbia's spatial plan prepared by the Republic Spatial Planning Agency and gave it to a public debate, has not actually come across as much resistance as in the town of Zrenjanin and the rest of the entire Mediterranean district. The criticism of this document is expressed from the day it was heard of it to today, and if you adopt it, I think, unfortunately, you will, I am speaking from the point of view of someone coming from the Central Bank County, and I believe that all the criticism so far was just the beginning. As far as the Mediterranean District is concerned, the spatial plan also speaks for the unity of all parties, both those in power and those in the opposition, which actually speaks in favour of everything I say or what I say, and that of those in Zrenjanin, as well as those in the municipalities of Novi Becej, Nova Ninja, Žitište or Sečanja. Instead of the Tisa port, the ports of Begej, Ecka Airport, which has been said by the way and has existed since 1942, Zrenjanin, Novi Becej and Žitište, Novi Crnja and Secnje, is offered and envisioned only a regional dump for the disposal of hazardous waste. Zrenjanin is not a place for the disposal of hazardous waste, and it is not acceptable to avoid it as the largest banana settlement when it comes to planning future construction of important infrastructure. Environmental problems are a fundamental global problem. However, the environmental awareness of citizens is unfortunately very low, but it is clear to everyone what could mean a dump in the region where there is a world-famous and allegedly protected Imperial Bar, then lakes, sands, as well as the Begej River, which is otherwise already blacklisted by its failure, and to remind you that Begey River is passing through the very center of the city of Zrenjanin. Instead of actually being jewels worth investing in terms of tourism, the spatial plan at least by this logic provides for their destruction. I must remind you that there is no such thing as a medium Banat in central Banat, and I repeat once again, there are no dangerous waste generators, so I see no logic in finding one of their warehouses here in Vojvodina. On the other hand, is it possible that in a city known in European frameworks as a food producer, which has several of the most significant manufacturers with an age-old tradition, such as "Diamant", "Milkproduct", IPOK "Gytoproduct", as well as "Yugomedia" and "Luxol" cosmetic products, are actually built on a waste dump. No matter how much they promise security of depositing the same, who can believe that it will have no impact on the quality of the products of the mentioned factories and the quality of life of the citizens at all. Zrenjanin, and Novi Becej, are also known for their very poor water quality and have long been on the front pages of all media, and solving these problems has been a major pre-election promise among most political parties, counting both the Republic and the town of Zrenjanin, and also in Novi Becej. I think that the RS government, in co-operation with local authorities, should have resolved the biggest issue of citizens of Zrenjanin and Novi Bece, and that is certainly the ecological correctness of running water, while it offers them, in contrast, a dump of hazardous waste. Mr. Minister, what is this message to the residents of the largest city in Banat? I must give you special criticism for the ill treatment of Zrenjanin in the Republic's plans. I can fully assess that Zrenjanin is marginalized and unjustly abandoned or neglected, because it is recognized as a city with a specific location relative to the corridors seven and ten, not as it was meant to be as a city of special importance or as a city in the border area. In the part of this plan called – Economic Regional Interactivity, you say that the imbalance of the development of certain parts of the AP Vojvodina will be resolved by applying the principles of decentralisation and polycentricism, where larger cities and urban settlements, such as Subotica, Sombor, Sremska Mitrovica, Pančevo, Vrsac, Zrenjanin and Kikinda, will play a role, and now what are the key words, i.e. the key two words, the engine of development, i.e. the focus of the points in which smaller municipalities will be grouped, forming development regions in the entire territory of the province. And then, Mr. Minister, after that, the dump. As you say, Mr. Minister, in 2020, we will meet the plan and bring Serbia into a better future and leave all of this to our children. I think there were some words, right? Mr. Minister, our children, at least according to this plan, at least from Banat, we're leaving only a dump, which, I think, we'll agree, is not some inheritance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45749	Five minutes and 25 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word has Minister Oliver Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45750	I'd like to ask you to be objective in the discussion of the spatial plan when you report some facts to the public, that they be the content of the spatial plan itself. It's not just a grudge to you. It's an insult to all of Zrenjanin, who launched a completely unnecessary illogical campaign based on ignorance and related to the story of a waste dump. Why the ignorance? First of all, no one ever said the dump would be right in Zrenjanin. Second of all, you have no idea what dangerous waste is. You claim that there are no dangerous waste generators in Zrenjanin, and I'm telling you that you and I and each of us here every day are generators of hazardous waste that will one day have to gather and have to be buried somewhere. So every city, every municipality, and every local community and every house could say -- I'll generate a plastic bottle with detergent, a "domestic" for cleaning the toilet, produce bacteria, produce a bunch of things that come from my household, agriculture, herbicides, pesticides, bug spraying poisons. It'll all be something I'll generate in the house. I want him out of my house, and I don't care where he goes. That -- I don't care where he goes next, it led to it ending up in garbage dumps all over the country. Since it cannot be explained, it ended in waterways, land, air and ultimately in our cells and generates an abnormal number of diseases and increases the incidence of some diseases that do not occur in other parts of Europe because we do not manage hazardous waste as well as other types of waste in the right way. The spatial plan offers a solution to how it is done. We have to have places where, after collecting these bacteria and packagings with pesticide chemicals, herbicides, everything else, and yet I say that the biggest generators of hazardous waste are the population, not the industry, somewhere they're going to have to gather. In Central Banato, which is a logical place for gathering when it comes to the whole region, surrounded by several hundred thousand or million people, one must be determined, which will be determined by some lower plans, a rural plan, perhaps some local plan, which will be determined after a study of environmental impact, which will be done in one systematic way. The whole campaign that was launched was a political one, and it's not just me who resents you and your party. This is an insult to all other parties involved, whether in power or opposition. We've made it clear with them. Do not spin these maps and say – here we have decided as a city that we do not want this or that. Let me tell you something, someone will have to, and we recognize all of these comparative advantages of Zrenjanin that you talked about as one of the places where we should set up something that's a civilization point, not our relationship with Zrenjanin, which is like you said in Stephinski, and that's not true. Only my Ministry has helped your city over the last two years with a huge number of problems that have been caused by the poor work of some who were before these people who run Zrenjanin today.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45751	Right on line, MP Sasa Maksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45752	Mr. Minister, whether it will be in the town of Zrenjanin or the Central Banat County – the Centralbanat County is scheduled. By the way, I'm not from the city of Zrenjanin. I'm a rookie. What I was referring to was practically a statement by your authority from Zrenjanin, or your people or your party, so I don't consider this a personal remark, since I'm more aware that you've sent your people to Zrenjanin, because DS is in power in Zrenjanin. The question is, what are you from this conversation, in fact, offering to the city of Zrenjanin, besides waste? So, well, it's gonna be a waste. When will there be water? Why isn't the airport in Eck, when the project's already started. He's out of the plan for the next 10 years? Why New Vienna? Nowhere, so nothing, just a dump.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45753	The word has a national emissary, Maja Lausevic. After her, MP Milan Lapcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45754	Dear Madam Vice-President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a proposal for a law on the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2010 to 2020. It lays down long-term foundations for organisations, both arrangements and the use of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, in order to bring economic and social development into line with natural, environmental and cultural potentials and restrictions on its territory. Article 2 The bill states that it itself consists of text and graphics. The spatial plan shall be discussed by regional spatial plans, spatial plans of the specific purpose area, as well as other regulations and other general acts for their implementation. Furthermore, in the draft law, more specifically, the text of the law, it states that the programme of implementation of the spatial plan shall be adopted by the Government within one year of the date of entry into force of this law. The section dealing with scenarios and concepts of spatial development, and as I come from the town of Novi Sad, states that the town of Novi Sad will play a development centre for the intersection of Corridors 10 and 7, with the supposed functional connection to the city of Belgrade, which will represent one of the gates in this part of Europe, very important for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. I must express my satisfaction with the reasons for the law's passing, there have already been enough words in the previous debate. I would only be apostrophe that the reasons for the law being passed are substantial, in fact, changed politically, economically, socially, but also the ecological environment in relation to the time of adoption of a valid spatial plan. I'll just remind you that the spatial plan that's been in force since 1996. These all the circumstances that we have put forward have changed not only in the Republic of Serbia, but also in Europe. It is necessary to implement and determine the actual state of relevant factors affecting the spatial development of the Republic of Serbia and to recognise the potential and obstacles for further development of certain regions. DS MPs will support this proposal in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45755	Three minutes and 20 seconds of MP time were used. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. After him, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45756	Dear Presidency, I'm going to continue that story a little while ago in the principle debate as an authorised representative. The fact is that this document, a large-scale document called the spatial plan, looks at the problem Serbia is facing today. A very high-quality analysis of the situation has been made in each area. Goals have been set where and in which direction Serbia should be moving for the period from 2010 to 2020. In each area, we have a clearly precise goal of what we should do. The only thing that remains unclear is how are we going to do it, from which means and how? It is nice to write that our goal is to stop the demographic discharge of certain parts of Serbia, only it is not said how it should be done. It is nice to set the goal that Serbia needs infrastructure to develop, to build a network of state roads, highways, to develop new airports, but it is not said how it will work. It is well said that Serbia will reduce regional differences, as these today are unsustainable and unsustainable. They range from 1-7 from the most underdeveloped region to the most developed region, but it is not said how this will be addressed, which will address investments, which will help state projects, which will take part in the country's mechanisms to address the problem of major regional differences. First of all, economic differences, which are, in fact, the key and which have a crucial impact on the demographic discharge of certain parts of the country. It's all well written, but no solutions are given how we're going to recognize these problems, we've written what we want, it's just not said how we're going to do it. For example, the spatial plan says that Serbia will develop six regional airports. Let's compare it to today's situation, see how many airports Serbia has today and how the state government treats these airports. Until seven or eight years ago, the only civilian airport was the Belgrade airport. Since 2003, after the renovation, after the 1999 bombing and large funds invested, the airport has regained its status as a civil airport. From the airport, all people living in southeastern Serbia could use this more comfortable transport and be transported to the nearest European destinations for several years. Since 2007, however, the state-owned JAT has stopped flying from Nis, citing facts and reasons that it does not have enough planes and that it has no interest to fly from that regional airport in Nis. The spatial plan says that airports will develop, and on the other hand, the reality is that a state-owned company that the government not only founded, but also has been helping each year with various loans cannot fly from that other state airport. What does that mean in translation? In translation, it means that everyone who wants to travel somewhere should come to Belgrade and fly from there. This means one simple discrimination against people living in other parts of the country. It's the same situation with infrastructure and with many other things. The main regret of those who want to invest in Serbia, or in less developed areas, is that there is not enough developed infrastructure there. Instead of developing this infrastructure first in undeveloped areas to stop this demographic discharge, this Assembly brings the Regional Development Act, which states that Serbia is divided into some six statistical regions according to NUTS 1, 2, 3 and 4, that it has a strategy for regional development, and in reality projects, state loans, bypasses, roads, bridges are built, where? In Belgrade or in part in Vojvodina. You can't get to any of the municipalities fairly today without breaking the wheel somewhere along the way. I'm talking, first of all, about municipalities in southeastern Serbia. Instead of the state projects being realised where it is most needed, to invest funds in reviving the economy, because this is the only way to create new values in the Republic of Serbia's budget, so that the spatial plan can be realised and to realise the development of infrastructure and other projects necessary for the country's progress, all of these projects are mainly realised within 80km of Belgrade, so we have a situation that unemployment in Belgrade is barely about 5%. What is important to say about this law is the fact that in the section relating to the demographic discharge of certain parts of the country, the analysis is that from 4860 settlements, 3840 settlements have a population depopulation, and that in only 834 settlements we have an increase in population, mostly by migration of the population from one part of the municipality to another or from one city to another. The country's natural population growth has been negative for ten years, and Serbia is one of the oldest nations in Europe, with an average age of 41, and with a number of children who are amazing, but unfortunately accurate - 0.8 children per family, this country has, so from a year ago we came into a situation that has more people over 65 years of age than those who are under 15, which clearly says that a country where the younger population of the elderly absolutely has no perspective and that such a situation has to change. However, in the spatial plan it is also planned as a goal, that work must be done to solve this problem, but there is not a single mechanism concrete in how it will be done. What happens in practice? We don't have any incentive to hire young people. Of the promised, in election campaigns of various, 200,000 new jobs, we have come to the situation that over 230 thousand people have been fired for the last two years, although the president of the state and president of everything and said that only Serbia will not be affected by the global crisis. We have come to the situation that Serbia alone seems to be affected by the crisis, as we arrived, after two years of the rule of the current coalition, in the last place by the average income in Europe and last place by the quality of life in Europe. If you didn't know, from two months ago Serbia is the last place in Europe on average and quality of life. It's the effect of those who rule for these two years. So there's no strategy on how we're going to overcome these problems. There is no concrete action to reduce huge state spending in order to stop the country's enormous borrowing. We have the largest government in Europe, we have the highest government spending since this country, the biggest budget deficit in the last 20 years. We spend more on a billion and a half euros than the budget earns, and nothing seems to reduce public spending, on the contrary, still going into debt. The sale of Telecom is planned as a rescue solution, but it looks like only a rescue solution for those currently in power. We are selling one of the last national resources to cover spending holes and prepare the people for a new election campaign. Since 15 days ago, the most numerous population, unfortunately, has been given a church of 5,000 dinars to help, although the main argument was to enter the new government that pensions will be 70% and that pensioners will have a decent life and decent pensions for their age. Of that promise today, of course, there's nothing, so their eyes are stained with one-time aid, from that part of the budget that doesn't exist. We planned to have 750 billion spending and a deficit of about 130 billion, so we didn't break that 130 billion deficit, but at the moment it's 110, so let's break it down for another 20, to achieve the planned loss, to spend that money by dividing the pensioners and preparing them for a re-election in future elections. In the meantime, we're going to sell Telecom, which is probably the value of the stock, in general the telecommunications industry, at this point the lowest in the last 20 years and something that's much, much more valuable than the Mobtel, we're going to sell for about the same money. Only from the subscription this government has raised from 0.8 euros to 4.5 euros in Telecom annually, which will say that the full price paid tomorrow will be able to recover in six years only from the subscription it will collect from a fixed subscription. Not to mention eight million mobile subscribers, owned by the "Telecom" of Republika Srpska or "Telecom" of Montenegro.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45757	Thirteen minutes of the parliamentary group's time has been used. The word is Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45758	I don't know where our minister's going, and I was just about to compliment him because he's coming here in the assembly as a real refreshment. When Oliver Dulic shows up, I feel like he's changing our national television logs. Everything's beautiful, wonderful, the successes bloom on all sides and then the man wakes up. What does it tell us? Congratulations to us, Oliver Dulic, yesterday. He didn't bring the cake, though, but he congratulated. We just don't really know what it is to congratulate. The fact that he said the spatial plan is proof that we are the sovereign state is talking about how Mr. Dulic is experiencing his state and sovereignty of the Serbian state. When you look at this document, this big book, then what's interesting is that all the data that's being discussed in this spatial plan and that Oliver Dulic here talked about has a lot of tables and there's no kiM in any table. I mention this in the context of Mr. Dulic's congratulations on yesterday, to remind Serbian citizens that this path in the EU that these regimes are pursuing leads to Serbia, unfortunately, being left without KIM, that both the AP Vojvodina and the Raška area will be federalised, etc., and who knows how far we will get on this European path, on these conditions that will last who knows how many years. This morning, a taxi driver asks me – what is he going to do as a citizen, and what else is a regular citizen in Serbia going to get out of it and get from yesterday being the other day to be congratulated? Indeed, it is difficult to explain because there is much to talk about, but one word can be said – nothing, absolutely nothing, except that Serbia will be smaller and smaller. Here comes the TV log, in the image of Mr. Dulic. That's why the SRS says, clearly and loudly, that we don't need a trip to the EU, that what you mentioned, Minister, that we don't have the money, so we're going to get the money from there, if we're not in that EU. I don't know how you didn't talk about how this country should start working, start opening up some production plants, revitalising industry, etc., so that we really have something to live on. I guess that should be the ideal of every government, not what you've tried to introduce to us. Ministers, when you said everything you said, when MPs made certain remarks, not only on what you said, but also on the proposal of this law and certainly on this law and on the Law on Planning and Construction, then you acted as an offended bride. You've started to comment angryly that you're going back to some, I don't know what 90's, that you're criticizing your coalition partner, which, of course, we're not interested at all, but you really believe that after 10 years of DOS power to mention something that was before that. You know, in 10 years, a miracle can be made, of course, provided that there is someone in power who cares about doing a positive miracle in the state of Serbia, of course. The ministers said the deadlines of the planning and construction laws must also be respected. Here's a simple question - why don't you respect the ministers? Why didn't you bring in the sublaws you were bound by the law on planning and construction? You say in a month or two we'll have on the agenda amendments to the Law on Planning and Construction. We, remember when we talked about that bill, we told you that very quickly the law would have to be done, because you passed a law that is inadmissible and here's how long it's been since we really have a law that's just a dead letter on paper. How many objects are legalized under this law? Zero. How many building permits were issued under that law? Zero or so-called zero? I don't know why you're looking at me like that, so ask the builders, ask who made the problem stop building in Serbia. The Law on Planning and Construction of Local Self-Government which does not comply with the provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction. But that's why the Law on Planning and Construction puts in Mr. Miskovic's pocket 10m euros. Mr. Minister, you should really tell us, I suppose, of course, I don't think you're personally responsible for this, because it's impossible, but I suppose you tried to find out from yesterday to this day, and that you might have found out what it was like to serve as an immobiliser, so Mr. Miskovic got a hectare of land in downtown Belgrade. When we talked about the Law on Planning and Construction, then it was the current building "Usje" and you remember when we were presenting information on how many owners of Usce received land and how much money of city, construction land, land of citizens of Serbia, citizens of Belgrade. You said then that it could have happened because it wasn't a good Law on Planning and Construction. In the meantime, we have this great law, how you praised him, and here we have again this truly unseen affair that we were informed of yesterday from the media. Minister, when you spoke and explained this proposal for a spatial plan on population ageing, on migration to centres, etc., it is all unfortunately absolutely true, but it would be good if you had said what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is, what the regime has done to change that. You know, the minister can't determine the situation, the minister and the government are the ones who need to solve the problems. It's easy to find, it's easy to read statistics, but what's done is done, what's done to make it a little different, to start some positive trends in a region in the Republic of Serbia. You're in favour of ecology, you're constantly promoting some environmental programs, etc. What happened to your failed attempt to process hazardous waste is being built in Ćupriya, so you've been expelled from here by the citizens of Ćupre, you are not allowed to do so, and now you want to do so in Ćivac. Mr. Minister, it's not funny, I'm telling the facts. Have you been to Turkey, have you tried – yes. You failed and the citizens managed to act so to make a decision not to allow it. You have now gone to Cicevic and there you have given your president of the municipality that stolen Mercedes so that you will allow him to somehow push through that dangerous waste in Cicevic. When we also talked about the Law on Planning and Construction, we remind you Ministers of what was going on and what was happening when it came to illegal construction, and then you claimed that when this law came into force, you would not say that it would be rooted out, but that it would come down to a minimum. I don't know what your experience is in some part of Serbia where you live or work, do you see when you're going somewhere as illegal construction continues to flourish? I warned you, when we spoke then and drew your attention to some locations in the area of the municipality of Zemun and you said publicly that you were going to engage to check out what it was, and obviously you didn't check anything. Now here is an exclusive information for you, Mr. Minister, in Zemun, in Gardenlar Street stands a wall that is protected by the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments and on that wall, with absolutely nothing to be built. Do you know, Mr. Minister, that a magnificent building came up next to that wall? It's not too late for you, Mr. Minister, to protect what's under the protection of the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments, send an inspection, see how magically someone could have built it and how much Zemun municipality officials were involved, how much money they got for it, etc. You speak and colleagues from the congregation's majority mention how this law will contribute to this regional development, but just to ask, did you hear what your colleague Djelic said when he came to Piroth the other day? So, publicly in front of the media, in front of the cameras, he says -- that someone wants a Pirot in Europe, and a real coalition with radicals, I'm going there to give some money, but until the power changes, I don't think of it. Is that even regional development, Mr. Dulic? You make laws that are sometimes bad, sometimes there's something good about them, but what's good, you don't apply. That is the fundamental problem of functioning you from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the problem of this regime. You love, as well as the President of Parliament, to boast about how much legislation has been passed in some previous period, so you wished for us this morning and hoped that as Parliament we would continue to be as productive as we have been, but let's once come out with the data, how many laws you have proposed, how many times we have discussed amendments and additions to the law. Come once, suggest laws, let the congregation's majority pass a law that will at least start to apply, for at least a year. You, unfortunately, are in no condition to do so. Unfortunately, I am saying this because of the citizens of Serbia who suffer a lot because of the poor government of the Republic of Serbia, as they will suffer for the sale of Telecom, unless they prevent it and if parliamentarians do not accept the initiative of the SRS MPs and the proposal we have tabled today to prevent it. Here I am ending up, in addition to being very damaging that you intend to sell Telecom and that the group chosen as a Privatization Advisor is in conflict of interest, because the company is a privatisation consultant for Deutsche Telekom, which is mentioned as a serious buyer of Telecom. You may not think this has anything to do with the subject that's on the agenda, but there is, Mr. Minister, because this spatial plan is a strategic document of every country and it would be a good thing if it were the spatial plan that we're talking about here today. They only repeat what happened from the beginning, as long as we have a spatial plan and other acts, in which you dare not even write in that table the data for KIM, none of you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45759	National MP Milan Vukkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45760	Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, colleagues, I will try to stick to the subject in my speech, so I will not talk about Telecom, but about the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2010 to 2020. Risking being rude, I'm going to say that planning here is traditionally neglected, very often for the account of improvisation. To the extent that at some point, we thought that improvisation is our great quality, our national pride, excluding a very important fact, which is that where there is planning improvisation is not necessary or at least of little importance. If we go through Serbia today, in villages and cities, along and across, we will see countless examples of lack of planning in the previous decades and centuries. Even the former Yugoslavia, which many today consider to be, perhaps rightly, perhaps not, that the country that was greatly decorated, that the country that in some ways gave much better results than what followed behind the SFRY allowed itself to tens and hundreds of thousands of people living in rural areas moving into cities of a settlement that was completely past every 21st century criterion. It wasn't those people who came and tried to house themselves in a new neighborhood, it was just the state that didn't plan enough and that didn't predict the notoristic fact that from the poor ends people would move into industrial centres. I'm told by an already older Kragujevchan as it was done at the time. He says, "We come and buy a field and build a house in the field." We need water, we need electricity, and how are we gonna get by? Well, there's this neighbor, the master-attended who can break through the water pipe, and then you're obliged to carry out that wild connection from that water pipe to your house to have water. These big strategists did not foresee the need for new settlements, but they let people get on their own and today we have settlements, say, in Belgrade, where a fire wagon in case of intervention, in case of a fire, can't get to the house, because the street is too narrow. Not to go any further into the past, it's just one illustration of what was wrongly planned or not planned in the past, so we suffer and we may suffer throughout the 21st century. If Serbia needs something today, it is a plan, a spatial plan, especially, and such a spatial plan as a melem on the wound. I'll tell you that Serbia's first spatial plan was won in 1996, as you've already heard. Did you know that in 1968, a decision was made to draw up this spatial plan? So with the interruptions for 28 years, it took us almost three decades to come up with a spatial plan. Today, only 20% of our territory is covered by planning documents. This tells us how seriously Serbian planning is taken. This spatial plan is the basis for Serbia's economic development. It correctly detects and diagnoses problems, bottlenecks in our society, in our space, in our economy, and predicts how these narrow throats should be removed. One way is even regional development. There is much to talk about, but I don't think it's enough, given Serbia's need for even regional development. Perhaps even bigger than for the overall development measured by gross domestic product, for example. Belgrade today is the most developed city in Serbia, the most developed centre and we who do not live in Belgrade support Belgrade to be even more developed, but Belgrade cannot only be a bright spot in Serbia as far as development is concerned. Belgrade is choking itself because of too much population, it cannot infrastructureally handle so many residents. Some parts of the territory are empty, and that's bad, both from the economic and security aspects. When I hear words like - inside, for everything that is not Belgrade in Serbia, I wonder how is Belgrade external? If we're inside, then it's logical that Belgrade is an outsider. I don't understand that terminology, but I do know that the termology is the result of the ruling state of the spirit in Serbia that just led to certain settlements disappearing, so let's say we have a population of 2,000 people in Serbia, which may have had 20,000 inhabitants a few decades ago. What this plan provides is even regional development and so on. politicenterism. So, we don't need one center, but we have to look north to the south, through the spine of Serbia, to make and strengthen the centres except Belgrade. There is Novi Sad, Kragujevac, Nis, in the west of Užica, in the east of Zajecar and other Serbian cities mentioned in this plan. In this way, these centres as magnets will bind the rest of the region to themselves and prevent the spillout of the population, prevent something that is due to non-planning in Serbia and improvisation. A great deal of importance is given to road infrastructure, and I'm happy about it. As a Kragujevčan, I can express my satisfaction that the end of the Corridor 10 highway is planned, i.e. Lapovo – Batocina to Kragujevac. The Kragujevac again becomes an industrial center, what we need. What this plan also predicts is that we also need re-industrialisation. There is another document called, I will tell you exactly, the post-crisis model of economic growth and Serbia's development from 2011 to 2020. It is a document that speaks about the economy and which is not an official government document, which was made in co-operation with USAID, but also one and the other unequivocally state that this plan, the USAID plan, also says that Serbia needs re-industrialisation, that Serbia needs to participate in the gross product with the current 15-16% of the industry to be at least 25%, at least, and perhaps more. That's what Serbia needs. If we had done so at a time when the government of Vojislav Kostunica was the largest privatisation, when the money was invested in that direction, we would surely have lived better today, and we would have suffered the crisis that came, however, on the side. This spatial plan has two scenarios, one is a plan for sustainable spatial development, optimistic, I would say, and realistic, and the second is a scenario of recession growth. In this case, recession growth is recognised as priorities that are not given up. To me, it is this fact that there are two alternative plans, a sufficient indication that this is not a political pre-election pamphlet, that this is one serious document, we have heard today countless times, a strategic document, but it really is, which will allow Serbia to look much better in 2020 than today. By adopting but also implementing a spatial plan, it should change our country's physionomy better. I haven't heard any serious grudges about the plan today, except someone has an idea of whether to take the road north, south, east, west, but the plan itself is essentially not questionable and that's good. It is also good that it is planned in one member to submit once a year reports to the Assembly on the implementation of this plan. So we have to track what's going on with the plan. We brought it today, we voted it out, so we forgot it, and then everyone does what he planned until then. This plan will be reviewed once a year here to see what we have achieved, and for half the period of validity, in the next five years it will be revised according to new circumstances. This plan also provides for the allocation of certain budgetary resources in line with those developments. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an excellent plan. It was built, not just by the ministry, not just by the agency, not only by the entire government, by the ideas of all Serbian citizens who were interested in it. For example, Milos Kurtesh of Saturday, I found this information in the media, managed to act as a change in Serbia's spatial plan, which forms a new traffic station on the Subotica-Sombor-Nosdan route. So it was built in a transparent process. This development plan has been done in line with European principles, respecting our reality and improving our reality. Serbia needs a plan, we have a plan, we support it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45761	I give my word to MP Bojan Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45762	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, the citizens of Serbia, at the very beginning of the Space Plan, made one mistake in describing the borders, so Serbia is bordering with Bosnia. There's no such state. Later on, the text reads somewhere -- Republika Srpska, somewhere in BiH, we do not know what it depends on, but only the inscription Bosnia cannot stand in the Space Plan. There are a number of data in this plan from 2008, such as external trade deficits, unemployment rates, which were extremely high back then in 2008, and they were certainly much higher in 2009. Many other data are from 2008. There was a possibility and a lot of time for them to change by now. I don't believe that anything would fundamentally change and that would affect this spatial plan, but because of us and those who read this plan, it would be far better if new, more accurate and more precise data were put in. In the Space Plan of Serbia, you wrote: "In the transitional period after 2000, the regional inequalities of the Republic of Serbia are further deepened. There has been a drastic discharge of the rural and undeveloped area, an unbuilt corridor 10, delayed activity on the construction of the highway E-763, an unfinished bypass around Belgrade, undeveloped new bridges in Belgrade, unbuilt bypasses around cities, waterways are only partly used in relation to available potential capacities. The big problem is also the negative effects of privatising ports, which can lift port operations, and that the Republic of Serbia loses its strategic position in the Danube. Railway traffic is in poor condition, and reconstruction works are not done, so the state of rail infrastructure, either by capacity or capacity, does not meet those minimum standards. The state of the water infrastructure is not satisfactory, the state of the distribution system is poor, it is delayed with the development of the source, and their own protection is extremely poor." As it appears, the DS has finally admitted that something is not good in Serbia and it is precisely because of them, that they are guilty and responsible for something, so they have put, I repeat, once again, that there has been something wrong in Serbia since 2000, something that is not good for the citizens of Serbia, that regional inequalities are deepened, the harmfulness of privatisation of ports is enormous, as well as their pre-purpose of land. For the first time, they're not blaming the previous authorities. They're making their own mistakes. At this point, maybe it's not who's responsible for this situation when it comes to the Space Plan. It's good for Serbia to have these things in the Space Plan, it's good to have a real state, the way it really is. We should not lie to ourselves and to the citizens of Serbia. For the Space Plan, the most important thing is how and what else, to change something for the better, to live better and better, to finally introduce order, to know what priorities are, what objectives, how to achieve them, to respect plans, not to stay covered with dust in drawers, to apply and to finally work on Serbia's development. More places in the plan also mention that achieving the goals depends heavily on the political situation, i.e. Of the uncertainty of the political situation. This does not indicate what political uncertainty is meant, whether it is internal or external. It's probably, in your opinion, a certain, good and stable situation if it's ruled by the DS, everything else is probably unstable and has led, in your opinion, to question the realisation of this law and the spatial plan itself. If, on the other hand, it means external instability, it's something we don't have to deal with absolutely. We're not seeing what's going to happen, whether there's gonna be a third world war or something like that, so the plan won't be able to make it happen. The plan should not be dealt with, because then the achievement of the targets depends on both floods and fires, earthquakes and other disasters. You drag too much politics into the planning document, too much is given in importance. Many places mention euro integration, EU entry, completely unnecessary. It envisions a spatial plan that external debt will be on a constant rise over the next three or four years. I ask the question of what will the government do about this, not to see an increase in external debt suddenly, not to increase by 2014, as foreseen by this spatial plan? The Space Plan says that eventual EU entry can affect the direction and intensity of migration. I also think that we should not deal with this, whether there will be or will be no migration and what intensity, when and if it enters the EU, because we cannot influence it, so I see no purpose for which we would do so. What we need to be interested in and concerned about are the daily migration of the population from the village to the cities. That's the best we can do. The villages remain desolate, the houses are empty, there is no one to live in. That's the problem we need to solve. The question arises, and why no one wants to live in the country, is it because of the low purchase prices of cereals, milk, vegetables, fruit, cattle, that a farmer can't live, first of all from his own work, is that it? It certainly is, certainly, and it is an infrastructure, the inability of adequate and timely treatment, the lack of mangers, kindergartens, schools, post office, banks, shops, sports, cultural facilities, etc. Are those the reasons for leaving the village? I'm sure they are. It should also be noted that agricultural pension of only a few thousand dinars. Who on these conditions lives and stays in the country? There we need to see the strength, the ability and, above all, the willingness of the state to intervene to solve these problems, to survive our villages, to invest in the development of rural tourism that is completely underdeveloped. More than 700 villages will be shut down in the next 20 years if something is not done, so is the Space Plan of Serbia. The village should be a pillar of Serbia's development, the village can and should feed not only all Serbia, but also countries in the environment. They're all going from village to town, and we need to do the most of this migration, not the migration that's going to happen if maybe one day we join the EU. When the villages are mentioned, I have a sentence or two about the depopulation. The demographic capital of the Republic of Serbia is one of the most critical limiting factors for its future spatial development. The state is not working enough to mitigate the cause of the depopulation and the unfavourable demographic structure. There's something urgent that needs to change, because the country's relationship to this very big problem is completely unsuitable and too passive. In the part -- a concept of the spatial development of the Republic of Serbia, they have put what is particularly important for Serbia to have cross-border co-operation with Republika Srpska and in perspective with Albania. I ask the question why with Albania, why is this our perspective? I guess the perspective is that he's working absolutely with all the countries. Why would a country stand out? If even one is singled out, then it should be a country with a highly developed economy, through which we can develop our municipalities or regions in the border belt. I'm looking for an explanation about this finding of yours. There are millions of illegally built buildings in Serbia. They reflect the lack of political will to solve the problem. Informal settlements are the most difficult moral, environmental and cultural mark on the face of the Republic of Serbia. It is the state's fault that it was built without construction permits, built whoever it wanted, who arrived on agricultural land, national and regional parks, in spas, tourist regions, and even in water supply protection zones. The question is, will this government have the will and strength to solve this problem? Speaking of illegally built objects, I can't help but mention legalization. We talked more than once about the price of legalization slowing down the whole process. At a time of major economic crisis, the poor standard of citizens, these prices are totally unacceptable and unrealistic compared to the reception and opportunities of citizens. All the effort and the whole legalization process will surely fail just because of the price. I now urge the Minister, the Government, to influence local self-government units as much as possible and to keep prices in line with citizens' opportunities and incomes. I also asked the minister at the previous session, I hope someone will tell him – where are the money from the citizens of Serbia who have been taken and separated into a housing fund for years? The entire working century has been set aside with the aim of resolving its housing issue and eventually most workers are left without money and without an apartment, so, with that, the question is raised to the Serbian government – what about the money from the housing fund? A good basis for future investment in Serbia is certainly a quality spatial plan for Serbia, which makes it clear that future routes of spatial development of Serbia can be seen and certainly requires complete plan coverage. Within the shortest time period, regional spatial plans, spatial plans of the area of special purpose, spatial plans of units of local self-government, so as not to come into a situation where the entire streets, settlements or buildings are being torn down because there will be a road or a whole weekend of settlements or catering facilities that are currently being built along the river coast, because during the year, two or three hydropower plants will be built there. Quality spatial planning and good spatial plans can attract a large number of foreign and domestic investors to invest in Serbia, which is of great interest to Serbian citizens. What the SRS insists on is that Serbia must use its geostrategic position, economic capacity, natural characteristics, available resources, etc. The ultimate goal is to develop more evenly, increase economic growth, reduce Serbia's lagging problem in general and raise population standards. The state must do everything to ensure that the plan's coverage is 100% as soon as possible, that these plans are quality and developmental and, of course, take care of the implementation of these plans so that not only the dead letter remains on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45763	MP Mirko Chikiriz has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45764	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all on behalf of SPO MPs as the only party representing the right-wing European Serbia majority, I would like to say that this plan document has done one big job, that many thematic areas have been processed and I really want to express my praise to both the Ministry and the professional services that have done one really necessary job in Serbia, because Serbia is famous for not having enough development plans, there are not enough development projects, and they are, of course, a prerequisite for the development of the whole country. Since this is only the second spatial plan at Serbia's level to be adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it is not too much to say that Serbia really did not have good development plans in its history. Here, first of all, I mean urban plans of all levels. By the beginning of the 20th century, Belgrade itself was built by entrepreneurs who were neither higher education nor respected many standards in the field of urbanism and construction. But the best facilities in Belgrade, by the reputation of the buildings built by Petar Velika and Katarina in then-Charina, and yet by the reputation of Western architecture, have been left by Russian architects, and these are the objects that Belgrade is proud of today. Many colleagues said the importance of a spatial plan for the country's economic development, for decentralisation. Whenever a topic of decentralisation is mentioned, the SPO supports everything that goes in that direction with both hands. As part of its capabilities and competences, what was their task, the ministry has contributed to the decentralisation of the country and its even development. I want, as we also have the concept of decentralisation of the country, to show once again satisfaction on behalf of the SPS MPs, but once again to point out that we believe that Serbia must enter the process of essential decentralisation as soon as possible and that the country's full contribution to decentralisation should be made by all ministries and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. As an MP living in Kragujevac and representing the citizens of Kragujevac who are not only from my political party, but from all the citizens of Kragujevac, and all the citizens of Kragujevac expect all the Kragujevac MPs to represent their interests, I think that Mr Milan Vukkovic has said several topics that are very important to Kragujevac. This is the Corridor 10 arm on Kragujevac – Batocina – Lapovo, highway, but I think there may have been room for Kragujevac not to settle in these twenty cities, in a group of cities of national importance, because there are less than 250,000 inhabitants and we, as representatives of the SPO, participated in a public debate in the development of this spatial plan. We didn't want as individuals to make remarks to the Space Planning Agency. It did so on behalf of the ruling majority, whose component of the SPO in Kragujevac, the city administration of the town of Kragujevac, because it should be said for the public that functional, urban areas are divided into four categories. The first city of Belgrade, in other cities, is of international importance in terms of planning, which is Nis and Novi Sad. The third category of national importance among twenty cities includes the town of Kragujevac. We have received the answer that European standards, that it is necessary for the city to have 250,000 inhabitants in order to have that international significance. In doing so, an analysis was made worth respecting. The daily migration of the population was also monitored and found that, as far as Kragujevac is concerned, 23% of the population comes daily from Knic's direction, 14% from Batocina, from other municipalities of Topol, Rač, Arangelovac and Lapovo, even less than 1% from Arandelovac, which is natural, given the position of these cities and cities. The argument we have presented is that Serbia's half division into the Kragujevac statistical regions is one of the centers of a very important region. It seems to us that only the number of inhabitants should not be decisive, and the SPO in addition to this division to the statistical regions, I think it is known to the public, advocates the essential regionalisation of the country and the creation of real regions, five in Serbia, with the mini governments, but also for the change of the Constitution. This is a topic that will certainly come to the agenda soon, because if we want to fully develop Serbia, first come to pre-accession, then EU funds, to do everything that many countries have done, such as Portugal, Spain, Greece, Ireland, which have recently been behind the former Yugoslavia in the degree of economic and overall development, and today, mentioning Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Lithuania, etc., today, if in 1990, in the time of Yugoslavia's collapse, they were 20 years in terms of development behind Serbia, they are certainly at least a decade ahead of Serbia. The key to solving this problem is essentially decentralisation. I am pleased that both MPs and authorities and opposition today have pointed to the dramatic demographic discharge of eastern Serbia, southern Serbia, but, don't forget, it is also empty for Shumadi, Vojvodina. It is right that those who say that one day everyone will go to Belgrade if they do not perform surgical cuts. For this reason, I say, the SPO expects in this part absolutely full contributions from all relevant ministries, to come to this essential decentralisation of the country and the country's even development, which are EU principles. One more thing about Serbia's geostrategic position. Serbia is a bridge between Europe and Asia, the Adriatic and Danube, the Balkans and Russia. Because our nation and people's home is on the main road in the past, in every Balkan, European or world storm of the conflicted army, we've been on that road, and we've suffered a lot of casualties here most of the time. For the first time in history, thanks to the United Europe project, the Serbian house is only able to win because it is on the main land magistrate that connects Europe with Asia and is on the Danube magistrate, which connects twenty European states and three seas. This is an advantage that our country has by accepting the EU's principles in drawing up this plan, by taking account of Europe's spatial plan, by building roads, and by rail and road transport, by regulating the Danube, and by taking account of the European spatial plan, which hardly seems to me today to be anyone or anyone mentioned in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. If this ministry has contributed to even development within its jurisdiction, then all European laws affecting Serbia's evenly development should be accepted unconditionally by Serbia, because it is in the interest of not Europe but Serbia itself. Then, the EU principle that most of the EU's pre-accession funds should go to the most developed areas should in no way qualify as some Vatican conspiracy, as some anti-Serbian lobby, but as the patriotism of the first order, which is in the interests of Serbia. Because today's Slovenia, which was with us only 20 years ago in the common country, was the first to accept EU principles. In 1990 they said – Europe now and they are now in terms of the internal organisation of the state and the economic power at quite a level with neighbouring Austria. That's what the SPO wants to see one day, and if there are those who have resistance to the EU, let's not have resistance to Slovenia, let's do everything they've done and the SPO wants to see Serbia governed by European laws, wants to develop evenly. We want to open perspectives for all the ends of our country and for all our inhabitants. Believe me, when the state of Serbia is evenly developed, when by moving from one municipality to another we do not get the impression that we have crossed from one country to another... A friend of mine, Greece's Arangelovac, said – in the Shumadian County when I cross from municipality to municipality I feel that I have moved from country to country. There is such a difference in the development of these municipalities and cities. The very indicators of both our and our respective ministry show that unfortunately we are the country with the highest degree of unbalanced development in Europe. The D.O.D. says 1:15%. Some studies in 2005 say that these relations are 1:20% or 1:21%, which is a sign of alert, which is a sign of all red lights, and so I say, if this ministry has made its full contribution to the even development of RS, we expect all relevant ministries, and the SPO will constantly remind us that this process is speeding up to make it better for all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45765	The People's MP Milorad Krstin has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45766	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable citizens of Serbia, by considering the draft spatial plan of the RS, drawn up by the Republic's Spatial Planning Agency, adopted the following, emphasising, remarks and proposals on the draft spatial plan of the RS i.e. the law on the spatial plan of the RS from 2010 to 2020. Since I come from the Central Banat County, from Zrenjanin, and I have come to the conclusion that a great damage has been done here to the city of Zrenjanin, in remarks and suggestions I will go from one to the next, and then give an explanation. Since there is no minister, you as an assistant will understand and follow me well. Comments and Proposal No. 1 – page 141, Functional urban areas, number 284, in the category of municipalities and cities of the highest degree in the organization, states "the overlap between the influence of the city of Belgrade and the city of Novi Sad, the most pronounced in the territory of the Indji municipality". You're favoring India again, bordering on almost identical gravitational potential towards both cities. Given the complexity, spatial-functional relations and intensive links in the future spatial-functional organisation of RS, space between the city of Belgrade and the town of Novi Sad can be treated as a unique functional region or as a belt of more intense development of the Republic with the bipolar impact of two centres of international importance. The SRS also suggests that Zrenjanin, in the spatial plan of RS, should also be marked as the belt of the most intense development of the Republic. I now give an explanation – Zrenjanin is territorially relying on the city of Belgrade and the town of Novi Sad. He's in direct contact with them. It is gravitating economically and socially towards both cities and is connected directly to them by one of the most important national roads. Because of the fact that there are two large industrial zones in Zrenjanin, one according to Novi Sad, one according to Belgrade, the definition of Zrenjanin as a belt of the most intense development of the Republic and investment that would for these reasons lead to the development of infrastructure would make our industrial zones more attractive to investors, which would undoubtedly lead to faster industrial development of our city and prevent an additional outflow of the population towards Belgrade and Novi Sad. Note and proposal number 2 – page 150, entitled Space Development, the role of cities and settlements, number 299, relative to the institutional level of cities are by weight classified in six groups, and Zrenjanin is classed in the last sixth group. The SRS suggests that Zrenjanin, in the spatial plan of RS, should be recognised and established as a city in the third group of cities, i.e. Nodes. Reason – it is unacceptable that Zrenjanin is identified as a city with a specific location relative to Corridor 7 and 10, not as a potential hub. The third group of cities of particular importance – the fourth group or city in the border area – the fifth group. The SRS finds the city unjustly neglected and marginalised in this way. Zrenjanin has always been recognized as an industrial, agricultural, cultural centre of Banat, Vojvodina and beyond. It is marked as a hub of road, river and rail traffic in Banat territory. It is directly connected and is based on the cities of Belgrade and Novi Sad, and is in direct contact with the Romanian border and exits three rivers. According to the draft of the spatial plan, many cities have found their places in the third, fourth and fifth groups of cities, so I list – Novi Pazar, Zaječar, Kikinda, Pirot, Vršac, Sombor, Vranje, Sremska Mitrovica, Loznica, Šabac and others. On page 152, under the number of 303 priorities, projects by 2014, are projected to adopt a package of incentive measures for third, fourth and fifth groups, leaving our city without investment for the next four years, which will have negative consequences for the urban and economic development of Zrenjanin. Note number three - construction of the airport in Zrenjanin. On page 216, heading 19, point 5, air transport system, air traffic was processed, as well as on the thematic map of the rail air, river and intermodal traffic plan and on the reference map "transport and telecommunications infrastructure", and no mention of the location for the airport in Zrenjanin is mentioned anywhere. The SRS proposes to include Ecka Airport in the spatial plan. The explanation is – I think this is a deliberate mistake because there is an airport in Zrenjanin. In addition to the memo, I submit to you, which is with me, a solution to the permission to use the sports airport "Ecka" Zrenjanin, a solution to grant an extension of the authorisation for the use of the special airport "Ecka" Zrenjanin and a letter from the Federal Defence Ministry. There's been an Eckna airport in Zrenjanin since 1942. At the site "Ecka" Zrenjanin there is an airport where sports and business activities are performed. There was also a planned documentation for the reconstruction of the existing UP complex airport, Ečka Zrenjanin Airport, for mixed traffic, as can be seen from the "Official List of the Municipality of Zrenjanin" No. 8/98 and 11 of 2003. Note number 4 – construction of the Zrenjanin goods-transport centre. On page 218, heading 19. "Internal waterways, water transport" through the text section and through maps in the territory of the city of Zrenjanina is not a planned port. The SRS suggests that in the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia, given the waterways of our territory, a port should be planned. Mr. Minister, I'm giving an explanation. Granjanin is the densest river hub in this part of Europe. Four waterways pass through the territory of the city of Zrenjanin: Begej, Tisa and Danube and the Danube-Tisa-Dunav channel. The area of Zrenjanin municipality is the densest river and canal hub in Europe, where Begej, Tamis, Tisa, Danube and the Danube-Tisa-Dunav canal network flows within 30 km. Analysis done in the late 1980s and early 1990s through the production of the study "Research and definition of numbers and schedules of trade centres in Yugoslavia" in the framework of the methodology for defining and criteria for determining the number and schedule of trade centres and the dilute economic and mathematical model, has shown the need for setting up a sports centre in Zrenjanin, so that Zrenjanin can also be considered as a potential multimodal node. Note 5 – Construction of a regional storage site for hazardous waste. On page 98, number 196, it is said that it is necessary to build a regional waste storage facility for its safe collection and storage until treatment. After an analysis of the reported quantities and types of waste and plant, central regional waste storage facilities are planned in the following areas: the Mediterranean area, the Danube area, the Mačvan region, the Moravia area and the Nisava area. The SRS suggests that a second location for regional storage of hazardous waste be set in the RS spatial plan. I give an explanation: the Centralbanatian district, with a centre in Zrenjanin, is the largest waste generator in Vojvodina. In accordance with the Waste Management Act, Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia No 36/2009, Article 34 defines what is taken into account when determining the location for the construction and operation of the waste management plant. Number one is said – the quantity and type of waste, and point 4 – the proximity of protected natural goods. In the Waste Management Strategy 2010-2019, brought by the Government of the Republic of Serbia at its session 15. 04. In 2010, on page 119, in the table – The quantities of municipal waste produced annually in Serbia and projections by 2020, it is said that the South Baba County produces 212.928 tonnes; the Southbanatian District 102.2.78 tonnes; the Sremski District 101.143 tonnes, the Northern District 73.587 tonnes and the Centralbanatian District 71.608 tonnes, resulting in the Mediterranean County having a much smaller amount of waste than other districts. On the territory of the town of Zrenjanina there is a natural good that has gained international status of protection, it is a special nature reserve "Old Begey Carska Bar" and is listed in the Ramsar list, and for the entry are proposed "Okalj Bar" at Elemira and "Rusanda" near Melenac, so I believe that this is one of the reasons for not planning a regional waste storage site in the area of the town of Zrenjanina. On page 124. The plan, heading 12, point 6 – Natural disasters and technological disasters, in the first position, indent three, states harmonised development based on balanced regional development and limiting the concentration of different performances in regions with already high technological risk: the Belgrade region, Banat, the Moravia area. Is such a warehouse for hazardous waste supposed to be a risky activity? Given that the proposed regional storage facility in the Mediterranean district takes the situation of the province's warehouse, for the reception and distribution of hazardous waste to central Serbia, such an initiative for the town of Zrenjanin is not acceptable. Granjanin belongs to the first group to categorize endangered areas of the environment. On page 90 is the designation of the 185th spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia, it is said that when it comes to funding environmental protection, the concept done on the basis of the National Sustainable Development Strategy of the Republic of Slovenia projects to reach the level of separation in the protection of the environment of 1.5% of GDP in 2014. For the purpose of the plan, a spatial differentiation of the environment according to EU standards and experiences has been carried out, taking into account the existing state of quality of the environment and trends in the coming period, taking into account four categories. The code number 186 indicates a category that is apostrophealed as the first in a sequence. The areas of pollution and the degraded environment, sites with an excess of pollution limit values, urban areas, open-end areas, lignite areas, gaps, dumps, thermopower plants, highway corridors, fourth-class waterways and out-of-class waters, with a negative impact on man, plant and animal life and quality of life. It is further underlined that – for this category, such solutions and definitions should be provided to prevent further degradation and reduce the effects of limiting development. It is necessary to rehabilitate and revitalise degraded and threatened eco-systems and to address the consequences of pollution, in order to create a quality environment. In this category the most endangered areas are Panchevo, Bor, Majdanpek. The urban areas that belong to this category are Zrenjanin, Ruma, as well as current fourth-class waterways and out of class. Based on the position of the town of Zrenjanin, which is categorized from Serbia's spatial differential, we believe it is necessary to give up the construction of a regional waste storage facility in Zrenjanin because this increases the chances of further endangerment and deterioration of the quality of the environment in Zrenjanin, which is already very disrupted. Since there's still a colleague to talk about this law, I'd have so much to say, but I hope you should accept a good part of this, Mr. Minister, but, as I can see, there's something you're not in the mood for.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45767	People's MP, Munir Traturak. He's not here. National MP Dragan Stevanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45768	Mr. Minister, I'm going to use some more time as part of the parliamentary group. I'd like to keep things quiet. I'm going to rely on the discussion from this morning and on something you said, so that some things can be brought out to the clearing. I repeat once again that my intention today was really not to stick my finger or point my finger at you, nor to recognize the liquefying in any of my words or sentences. That would really be distasteful, but I've had to say things as a representative of the opposition party exactly as they were written in the spatial plan. You said today that this spatial plan is politically neutral. It really is, and we wouldn't have the right to say that this plan isn't correct because it's politically neutral. He is indeed correct and objective to a large extent, because he was politically neutral. What might be found to be an objection to this spatial plan will, Mr. Minister, be able to correct itself through acts and development strategies, or development documents of the lower order, if there is political will. There are mostly some differences and conflicting views on roads, where in principle the problem is again again those institutions and bodies that are within the executive authority, road directors etc., but this agreement can be made through regional spatial plans, plans for the processing of exceptional features or areas of special purpose, local spatial plans etc. So if there's political neutrality, you'll be able to bring it together. But my discussion will continue to point out through one or two examples, I will see how much time I have, examples that represent evidence that the government and the executive authorities in Serbia have a problem with political will and that poor and pathological political will and definitions can be sustainable development and spatial development documents to question. It didn't happen once. It's not an incident, it's becoming a practice. I've talked to you about some things, and I'll be free to say that I recognized the will to deal with some things, but you have come along, and of course I, as a representative of the SRS, have come across the wall, because you have no mechanisms to deal with it. A colleague, Vukkovic, seemed to have just told me that he had not found or recognized a serious criticism of this spatial plan. I repeat, we'd be hypocritical to criticize him. It includes certain principles from Hanover, which is based on the Hanover principle. These are the stenograms from a year and a half ago, when we from the SRS, here's the evidence, we called and asked for the government's representatives, then you didn't sit here, but your fellow minister, we asked for a document to bring before us the government that was created on principles from Hanover, principles of sustainable spatial development, which are acceptable, despite the fact that the SRS is against European integration. But, I repeat, spatial integration is something that exceeds European integration and you cannot challenge something that respects the most possible standards, especially in the field of planning. What's what I've been waving all morning, and basically it's a crucial proof that you really have a problem? I come from the Municipality of Surdulic, you know, the Vlassin Lake has been declared an area of extraordinary qualities and has a special protection regime. You know that. Three protection zones, in the first and second, are forbidden to be built, in the third, with due respect for the rules would be allowed and could be obtained. This area of exceptional qualities, protected from national importance, is managed by the Building Land Directorate. There are five objects in one location. Whoever takes care of this natural good, based on the laws, regulations and regulations that you make, makes a decision to remove the solution of all five objects and then the four objects collapse. But for all five, a solution has been made to remove them. Then what's going on? Then the gentleman whose house is to be torn down, or the cottage, complains to the second-degree organ. The second-degree body, which is also your ministry in Leskovac, confirms the decision of the local self-government authority, and then someone finds someone in your ministry, the signature of Ms. Aleksandra Damjanovic is there and then, according to her warrant and her request, the second-degree body brings a different solution to the same case. Do you know how much insolence goes? Not that the facility isn't going down, but your associates are asking the authorities that protect the natural well at the local level, then they're asking not for this house to collapse, but to build, or to make a diameter and pre-calculation, to charge compensation for the use of construction land. Then an act arrives from your ministry, signed by your associates, saying that the object that is in the second zone of protection and does not meet the conditions to be legalized, and four are removed. This is opposed to a sustainable development concept. That, Mr. Minister, points out and confirms that my view that a pile of bureaucracy in the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not recognise the territory of the Republic of Serbia as a strategic resource or we have problems with that, so be angry with you as much as you want, as much as you think it should or don't think it should. But this is our cruel reality and cruel reality. Today we live in time, Mr. Minister, when a public debate on some plan-based committee dealing with plans is about to include citizens' objections, and the plan's processor does not include them and is thus published in the Official Messenger. It is not a job that can be corrected only by having someone call here or by you in the name of the majority and say – so you are just criticizing, you are doing this, you are. So we show good intentions because we understand and understand the importance of plan science, spatial planning and we understand the territory of the Republic of Serbia as a strategic resource. But the problem with that today in Serbia has executive power. You may have a problem with that yourself, but you know what I say in the neighborhood -- my grandmother gave the bank to get in the wheel, she'd give 100 to go out, but there's no more going back. Now you're where you are and you have to put up with it. You're bound and obliged, whether you like it or not, it doesn't matter to the SRS. But you have serious problems. Of course, I'd like my colleagues to say something. I had an obligation to tell you this, to know that our story is not exclusively a political pamphlet and a political message, here are the signatures of your chosen people sitting in executive power, who are destroying the principle and concept of which you swear. In the second debate, in particular, I will show you the maps, regional and spatial plans that again your policy, DS policy, local self-government in which you are in power, devising spatial development and the concept of sustainable spatial development.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45769	Mr. Minister, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45770	I don't take your criticism personally because I'm sure none of you in this country can find one thing that's a question of illegality or illegal acquisition of any property benefit that has to do with my name. So I take this as a criticism of a system that we're all aware isn't working very well. If it worked best, this country would not be Serbia, but would be Switzerland. But we live with all the imperfections of the executive apparatus and the bureaucracy that we're all aware of. When I criticise something that's a constant repeat of the problem that we're all aware of, I'm just criticizing an attempt to relativize these problems, because today when we talked about the problem of environmentalism, I said just one day to imagine what these problems are, how much they cost, and if we said one year -- let's solve all the problems in Serbia, we'd have to stop everything from funding, just to start dealing with the environment, and it would take us a few years. So you can't say -- you haven't done anything in the last ten years, absolutely nothing, because still four percent of the waste water is just being cleaned up in Serbia. To solve this problem in Serbia, we need between two and three billion euros. I remind you that Serbia's budget is slightly bigger than that. So we need to be realistic, objective, and conscious of the problems we face, and many of these problems need to be solved step by step. As far as this particular case is concerned, I'm hearing new facts now. It is true that any one of you who has any of the citizens' objections can come to me and I think you too are witnesses of sincere intentions to solve problems. In many places around Serbia, I reiterated the ministry's determination and the government of the Republic to introduce order in the country. Today, when I listen to concrete examples that there is some kind of wild construction somewhere or that there is no act in accordance with the law, I can only promise that I will do everything I can to make sure that this does not happen in the future. Speaking of bad solutions from the Law on Planning and Construction that are explained by the continued existence of wild construction, I will tell you that there is also wild construction in Germany, but it is sanctioned by an efficient administration. It is sanctioned by effective local self-government, it is sanctioned by the will and desire of bureaucracy to deal with these problems. We're like a country very far from it. It is not true that the law on planning and construction has blocked the construction in Serbia and represents a huge ballast of our economy. That's just not true. I'll just give you a few arguments. A few months ago, I was sitting here defending the law on aiding the construction industry under the conditions of the global economic crisis. The government of the Republic of Serbia has defined 18 billion dinars for concrete projects that are now under way and have begun. Do you know that all local self-governments, and almost on the territory of all local self-government, were building buildings, took less than two months to issue construction permits. So we have the Law on Planning and Construction. Each local self-government for its own purposes and how quickly and easily it issued a local permit and received all the conditions of public enterprises and issued a building permit. I call on them to also dynamic, fast, skillful and how they should be betrayed and for private investors and problems will not exist. Six months ago, the ministry and the Serbian Building Directorate launched a "July 4th" barracks project to build four and a half thousand apartments, an entire small town, that it was almost 400,000 square meters that was never built in Serbia at one point so large a construction facility. Six months from the idea it took to come to a realization. On Monday, construction works are being opened. So, the Ministry managed to show that for such a large complex it is possible to issue both a location permit and obtain all the conditions and issue a building permit, and before that to do an urban project, to do the main project, to get all the necessary projects for infrastructure, therefore, can be done. At this point in Serbia, there are cities where a local permit is obtained by arriving early in the afternoon and submitting a request, come in the afternoon and pick up a location permit. Of course, there are cities that don't want to respect it, they won't respect it or they can't respect it. When we talk about amendments and additions to the Law on Planning and Construction, let me tell you in advance, all that makes some look like they're about to get changed and added, it's not going to change. The conversions will be and will have to be paid. We won't give up the principle where a building permit can't be issued unless two basic conditions are met. It is to prove ownership in the building land and that there is a plan condition, and to do so, plans must be made, whether they are spatial or regulatory, after all, the condition that the state also shows seriousness, with what we represent here today in front of you a spatial plan. I want to deny the story that this spatial plan was made during other ministers, and that's absolutely not true. You see who read it, the entry parameters are 2008, 2009. We managed for an extremely short deadline to make it, and I wish it had been made before, that Serbia had plans on the whole territory long before, but it had no plans. I'm saying we're taking it slow, but I'm sure we're putting order in this area, and we're setting it up. I'm also telling you that I'm sure it won't go so fast. Please give me this particular case, we want to solve it, it's inadmissible, and I don't know who signed it on behalf of my ministry, and we're going to check it out and look at it, I don't believe it's a violation of the law, but let's check it out. It is inadmissible that such things happen and that wild construction is subsequently legalized. That's out of the question. Rest assured, wherever we go, wherever the ministry works, it works with the same clear policy, which is to introduce order in this area, because without order there is no economy, no development, no new investment, no luck for our citizens. We're really gonna keep doing this. I will prove it to you in a series of practical examples and during this debate now and in amendments, and when we discuss amendments and additions to the Law on Planning and Construction. For the very end to say, amendments and additions to the law do not present any shame to the promoter. I don't know why you U.S.S.S.S. We've been telling you nice things, here's a year or two, you've come with changes and supplements. That's why Parliaments exist. Every year, changes and additions of laws and laws are being made in all parliaments of the world to adapt to life. Tell me one law that lasts 10, 20 or 50 years. As soon as there are some social circumstances that require a change of laws, of course we will change the laws. I'm with you here tomorrow with a series of environmental laws, and in a year and a half, as far as your laws are concerned, a series of circumstances have changed. Many European directives have provided for different solutions. In practice, we've noticed that some things don't work, so let's change them, better than to keep quiet in a corner and wait for this government's mandate to pass, and believe me, no one will notice that the laws don't apply. We want our laws to be applied, and that's why we change them and adapt them to life. The spatial plan I don't believe will be changed, I think it's good and as far as I understand it, and this is for the end, you commended it and thank you for that. So he's politically neutral, he's based on expertise, and he can only come out of it a lot of good, for all our citizens, for all our regions, after all for the lives of our citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45771	There's no basis for replication. I give my word to Ambassador Alexander Martinovic, you have 21 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45772	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I cannot help but begin my presentation with a brief reference to what Mr Oliver Dulic said this morning when he spoke to the MPs. So, Mr Dulic, a firm commitment and a firm view of the SRS regarding your statement that we have achieved great success by forwarding the EU Council of Ministers to RS membership in the EU to the European Commission, we see as a fist of 30 pieces of silver, because of the fact that we gave up the policy towards KIM, which is prescribed by the RS Constitution. If you followed closely the statements of European officials, especially the Belgian foreign minister, you could very clearly conclude that the positive forwarding of Serbia's candidacy was the result of Serbia giving up the original UN General Assembly resolution when it comes to KIM and that we have practically changed the text of the resolution in the way that the United States and the EU were responding. I think there is absolutely no reason for anyone in Serbia to rejoice, not only because we have recognised the de facto independence of KIM, but because there is nothing since Serbia's rapid entry into the EU, and that this is how, in the best possible way, a document that is from that so-called document to you. The pro-European ruling coalitions have their eyes pierced, and this is the European Commission's 2010 report. As for the very spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia, it should be in the function of economic development and I don't think there's any dilemma about it. The question now arises whether the MPs and citizens of Serbia can believe that the government of the Republic of Serbia, as a compact political team, will install everything possible in the spatial plan and thus in the extreme line, since this is the ultimate purpose of the spatial plan, will improve, otherwise, the extremely difficult, economic and social situation of Serbian citizens. The Serbian Radical Party believes that we do not have enough grounds to trust you, and that this is the best way to confirm the interview of Mladjan Dinkic in the latest "Economist" list. On the question of journalists – are you in agreement with Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic's statement, that the government is very often in conflict with itself and that some economic issues cannot be brought forward for political reasons, Mr Mladjan Dinkic responds – conflict of goals is understandable and common, because never two good people can come together. At the same time, it is difficult to achieve high employment and low inflation, and faster economic growth with a balanced budget. That's why the government has to decide what's her priority right now. For me, there is no dilemma, because the most important thing is to increase employment and speed up economic growth, even at the expense of a higher budget deficit and inflation. Furthermore, on the question of journalists, the "Economist" list -- do you think this government could and must have been much braver, because almost nothing has been done on the reform plan? Mr. Dinkic responds – the courage and speed of reforms depend crucially on the one who runs the government, not the one who participates in it. It's a question for the DS as the strongest coalition partner. Ministers from G 17 plus in their portfolios immediately at the beginning of the term of office did everything in their power. As cake cream, on the question of journalists – is the demand for larger subsidies in the economy the reason why the budget rebalancing for this year has not yet been adopted, and Mr Dinkic says – no, we are also waiting for the Ministry of Finance proposal, because we need additional funding, because we have already spent the entire budget for incentives for job creation. Otherwise, on the question of journalists -- couldn't the government have reached an agreement alone on the budget rebalancing for 2010, but it is also, according to the finance minister, must have waited for the IMF, Mr Dinkic makes a fantastic statement – and I don't understand the statement by the finance minister. Mr. Dulic, in the context of what Mr. Dinkic said, a question arises which reasons do you expect us to believe that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, reportedly politically neutral, will apply a political neutral document, what is the spatial plan in your words? There's absolutely no reason for that. Now, if my debate were not too abstract and someone hadn't objected to us having some theoretical debate on Serbia's economic development, I would look back on one detail in the spatial plan. On page 150 of the Spacious Plan of the Republic of Serbia, among other things are described so-called urban plots, urban networks and urban settlements that rely on each other and make up one functional continent, according to Belgrade-Novi Sad axis, with cities and urban settlements within their functional areas, including the Belgrade municipalities of Surcin and Zemun, Indjija, Rum, Stara Paz, Pančevo, Smederjevo, Smederjevska Palanka and Arangelovac. I'll look back only on the Ruma municipality. As you know, Mr. Minister, the government of the Republic of Serbia made a decision in 2009 to apply to the municipality of Rum to use more than 200 hectares of agricultural land along the Belgrade-Zagreb highway. In March of this year, a detailed regulation plan for the industrial zone of the Romanian loop was made, and it is essentially a complex of agricultural land, which was not nearly brought in for the purpose of being a real industrial zone, and then on TV the president of the municipality and the president of So Rum come out and say, we have come up with a plan of detailed regulation and in six months we invite investors to come. Where do they come from? Where fields are now, sunflower, cabbage, corn, etc. A few months ago, the contract was concluded, Mr. Minister, on the installation of electrical power cables in that so-called. The Romanian loop industrial zone. I purposely note the case of the municipality of Rum because, if memory does not cheat on me, you came to the municipality of Rum in November 2008 and gave your presence support to the DS to win these extraordinary local elections. Here, you confirm that's true. Mr. Minister, look now at what is happening in the direction of the people of your party, how the Public Procurement Act is violated and how the Law on Planning and Construction is violated. That's not SRS, that's DS. Why and if you know about it, I'd like you to answer me at the end of my presentation. Therefore, the contracted value of the job of installing electricity cables is 57 million dinars. It wasn't hard for me, and I got the invoice from the Jagodina cable factory, where it can be seen, since it's a length of eight kilometers, two cables are placed in the same trench, three vessels go into each cable, so the total length is 48,000 meters. The value of the cables is, Mr. Minister, 26.904,000 dinars. That was the day of July 5, 2010. See now how much they cost at market prices the following items that are necessary for this contract to be realised. So the excavation of this trench of eightkm times two euros is 16,000 euros, i.e. 1 million and 600,000 dinars. The purchase of the cable, as you have seen, is, to round up, 26 million dinars. Excavation of trenches amounts to a million and 600,000 dinars, or 200 dinars per meter. The laying of trenches is 235 dinars per meter, times a million and 600,000 dinars, which is three million and 760,000 dinars. If we add design to this price for this job, which is 130 thousand dinars per mile, times eight kilometers, the total value of the works is 32 million and 400,000 dinars, and the contracted value of the works is 57 million dinars. Now the question is, Mr. Minister, where did the difference of nearly 25 million, namely 24 million and 600,000 dinars end? What's the next problem? In fact, the problem that precedes this problem is the price. It is that a contract was concluded on the installation of electricity cables between the Public Enterprise for Building Land and Ruma Roads and the Power Distribution "Ruma", and the agreement on this contract was given by the head of the municipality of Ruma and the director of ElektroVojvodina. Where the contract is concluded, or signed, without having previously provided any project technical act. Absolutely nothing, no location permit, no traffic-technical conditions, no even project, no absolutely nothing. There is only a contract to set cables where prices are maximum high, and of course prices are so set that the Public Procurement Act is completely bypassed. Prices were not requested by other producers at all. The question arises, where do you get the value of 57 million dinars? So someone put that difference in their pocket. Since you participated in an emergency local election campaign in the municipality of Ruma and since you know these people from DS, who today represent the headquarters and backbone of the government in the municipality of Ruma, do you have any information on where the difference of 25 million dinars ended? The next thing, Mr. Minister, in the municipality of Ruma since 2008, the Law on Planning and Construction and the Law on Public Procurement have been completely suspended. So, the municipality of Ruma is a retail unit outside the Republic of Serbia, where the positive legal regulations of the Republic of Serbia are absolutely not applicable. It's possible there, Mr. Minister, that a man would come to perform work with his machines, baggers, trucks, etc., without having previously had absolutely any project documentation, that he didn't get a location permit, that he didn't report the works, that he didn't have a building permit. A man, otherwise a sponsor of DS, has paved one local or regional route, is subsequently issued all the necessary papers and all the necessary acts, according to the Law on Planning and Construction. What you, Mr. Minister, must do is to exercise strict control of how units of local self-government in Serbia, and a typical example and a bad example of this is the municipality of Ruma, respecting or disobeying the Law on Planning and Construction and the Law on Public Procurement. The spacious plan of the Republic of Serbia should be ideal, it should be impeccable, it should have no objections, it will remain a dead letter in the paper if it is applied by people who are absolutely not ready to apply any of the positive legal rules in force in the Republic of Serbia. I don't know if you've done anything about it, Mr. Minister. I have the impression that you're satisfied that the National Assembly is voting something. The Law on Planning and Construction was passed. You say it's good, and we say it's not good, but it's not good, it still has to be applied as it is until it gets better. However, not even such a bad Law on Planning and Construction is applied. The Public Procurement Act does not apply either. The question now arises, Mr. Minister, with what right will any citizen of the Republic of Serbia be brought down of a lawless house if municipalities and cities in Serbia are promoters of violations of the law? With what right will you bring down a poor person who, perhaps by separating himself from his mouth and his children, has made a roof over his head, to bring down that roof over his head, when local officials without any fear, without shame, without any moral scruples, in the most hopeless way possible break the law? Not only do they violate it in a formal sense, but apparently the municipalities and cities suffer enormous material damage. You know, for the Rum community, when you put it in your pocket, when 25 million dinars are stolen, it's huge money. Someone took that money. I'm asking you who? You know these people, you helped them come to power. You probably have some influence and some control over them. It's impossible not to know where 25 million is. It is impossible to know that people who have individual construction firms are paved or revitalised by certain routes without having at all any documents required under the Law on Planning and Construction. Such examples in Vojvodina, Mr. Dulic, there are as many as you want. Also, the big problem that is already emerging, and in the future it will certainly be even bigger, is the fact that local self-government, but also the state of Serbia, of course, and the AP Vojvodina, do not reconcile their obligations to contractors. The question is, what's the limit for these people being able to perform their work in the first place without being paid? There are a number of honest and decent people who deal with construction operations, who have taken trucks, machines and who simply have to work. If they live, their economic downturn is guaranteed. You instead of helping them, local self-government, AP Vojvodina, the state of Serbia, absolutely do not settle their claims. The question is, how long are these people gonna be able to work like that? The big question is, Mr. Minister, what is the quality of the works being carried out, I will speak only of the territory of the AP Vojvodina? Oversight's almost gone. Even when he has it he's only formal, because the same man practically controls and owns a company that asphalts and at the same time owns a company that formally controls. This goat is preserved by cabbage and so long-term cannot be talked about any European principles in spatial planning, or in the economic development of the Republic of Serbia. Another big problem, Mr. Minister. The spatial plan is the most general plan act when it comes to the Republic of Serbia. Below it come the spatial, or urban plans of the lower order. What some investors face in certain municipalities in Vojvodina, and yet it is a bad example for the municipality of Ruma, is that local public companies dealing with the project set astronomical prices for the development of detailed regulation plans. Here's an example. There's a man in Ruma municipality who wants to build a gas station on the surface of 22 acres. Do you know what the plan of detailed regulation is? Seven acres. For what? To make the price a million dinars. The question arises – whether certain local self-governments literally drive investors out of their midst because a man who has not yet been toothed by a million dinars asks him to do a detailed regulation plan for an area that is five times larger than that on which he will perform some economic activity. These are all major problems, Mr. Minister, it would be good for you to answer us – does the ministry that you're headed do anything to solve these problems? I repeat once again, you must not remain on the surface of things, you must not be satisfied that the National Assembly votes an act that you have proposed, regardless of whether it is the Law on Planning and Construction, whether it is a law on the spatial plan or whether it is some other act concerning the area of urbanism. You just have to get down to local self-government. You need to start sending people from your ministry to control what's going on at the level of local self-government. I guarantee you at the level of local self-government is a complete mess and an absolute lack of any positive effects from the Law on Planning and Construction, and none of this latest law regarding so-called. Help the construction industry. Ask the contractors who helped them with the law, nothing helped them. See only in Vojvodina how many people are involved in construction work, which owes hundreds of millions of dinars for some of the jobs that were done in 2007 or 2008. I must, Mr. Minister, touch another topic that has been given the right place in the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia, which is a problem with the demographic discharge of certain parts of the Republic of Serbia, and we all agree, both you and us in the opposition, that the great problem of the Republic of Serbia is a negative natural growth. A DSS colleague correctly stated that today, after a married couple, or family, 0.8%, I don't know if I should tell children or children, it's just now a statistical, not a biological category, because of course there can't be 0.8% of the child. On the other hand, Mr. Minister, your government is promoting a public manifestation of homosexuality. I'm sorry, but these two things really don't go together. I fully respect and all of us SRS fully respect the individual right of citizens to have any sexual beliefs, but to raise it to the level of public manifestation of the highest importance in the Republic of Serbia in conditions where we have a negative natural growth, there, Mr. Minister, really does not know who drinks and who pays. Homosexualism is simply biologically inconsequential, it can't lead to the creation of a new life, I hope you understand that. On the one hand, you want to contain the white plague, at least declaratively, and on the other hand, promote the public display of homosexualism that is biologically completely non-productive, non-road. So, something here, Mr. Minister, is wrong. I have the impression that the government of the Republic of Serbia always stops halfway. I'd like a little more children in Serbia, and I'd like it a little bit to go on the hand of a homosexual lobby. You'd like to sort out the area of urbanism a little bit, and on the other hand, in the municipalities, the cities where you're in power is a complete urban chaos. It is impossible that there are 150 democratic parties in the Republic of Serbia, so one Democratic Party at the level of the Republic of Serbia, which has a majority in the National Assembly and in the Government, and it is reportedly in favour of respecting the Constitution, the law, as you say, but therefore there are 150 other democratic parties in the Republic of Serbia, in local self-government, who are doing everything contrary to what you are declaring. We completely agree with you. Should order be introduced into the area of urbanism and construction in Serbia? You should. Should the Law on Planning and Construction be corrected? You should. Is the spatial plan the way it is, good? We can agree that it is, but what about the fact that laws are not respected in the Republic of Serbia, that municipalities and cities are promoters of law violations? Does the Government of the Republic of Serbia, does your ministry have a way of stopping this? If you don't have a way, you can vote the ideal spatial plan. Nothing will happen to him unless you stop the chaos at lower levels of power.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45773	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, nor do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, who have not used their right under Article 96, I give the word to Minister Oliver Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45774	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, very briefly. First of all, thank you for the debate today. I think there's been an opportunity to hear a lot of very useful advice and suggestions. We've also had opportunities to hear some criticisms, one part of them is objective, one part of them we don't think is justified, but in any case, I think we're all on the same goal, which is to make our country a better place to live. The spatial plan, as a strategic document of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, will certainly allow for a 10-year period of time to define the directions of development, the area of our development, to define all the priorities that should be insisted on in this development, with respect to what is most important to all, and this is the area of the Republic of Serbia, with its natural and cultural resources. We have tried to present to you today a document that is comprehensive and extensive, which is the product of our profession and science and which should be the basis for changing the consciousness of all people, at all levels of government, which makes decisions on how to access serious planning should be made. Unfortunately, we are a society that had a problem without a serious plan and strategy there is no development. We've been having trouble realizing that, if we think planning doesn't matter, most of the time, the future is planned for us by others. Thanks to the spatial plan, everyone's gonna get something. Regions will get the opportunity to develop faster and better, weaker regions will get the opportunity to develop faster, and those better developed regions will get the opportunity to influence, along with society as a whole, the development of the whole country. So, we wanted to go through a spatial plan to bring everything that is the problem of editing the space of each of our citizens. In particular, thanks to this spatial plan and thanks to its work on harmonising all lower spatial but regulatory acts with this spatial plan, one day this country will be covered 100%, all necessary planning acts. There will no longer be a need to talk about the arbitration of the administration, about the need to do PDR as well, and to pay huge money to settle the issue of the gas station, about the fact that certain items are in local self-government for months and that there are no building permits being issued because some bureaucrats are waiting for someone to bribe him. One day when the implementation of what is the policy of this government is completed, you will literally get your building permits with all necessary and accompanying documents to start getting only on the Internet. And that's what the vision is and that's what the goal is. Until then, there'll be a lot more problems. And we can't say that we don't know about a large number of problems that appear today at different levels of government. But neither can we at the Ministry of Environment and Space Planning to solve every problem. Most of these problems are problems of morality and understanding the need for the state to function better. Most of these problems are problems that are not solved in parliament and are solved in the Ministry of Environment but are solved in the police, in co-operation with the prosecution and courts. And that's why, for who knows which time, I'm sending you an appeal that's very important. In promoting the value we want to promote, we must all participate. And I'm sure that each of us bears those values, because they essentially mean that we want our citizens to live better. That we want to live in a country that is better decorated, that is cleaner, that respects rights, different rights, than human rights, and all other rights, in a country where no one who wants to invest has a problem, as we want to live in a country where the one who works, who wants to invest, has no problem with their rights. In order for all of this to be achieved, some basic foundations must be laid, and planning and this spatial plan is one of these basic foundations.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-26-0.u45775	I hereby conclude the principled search and proceed tomorrow, Wednesday, October 27, at 10.00 p.m., with a joint review of the draft laws of items 4 to 10 of the agenda, you were so right, Minister. Thank the MPs for their cooperation, get some rest. It's a long day ahead of us.
