ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u42947	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find the sitting to be attended by 110 MPs. To determine the number of MPs in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, there are over one third of us in the hall of 87 MPs, and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 235. Rules of Procedure? I note that Ms. Verica Radeta has been authorised to represent the SRS parliamentary group. (Miss Radeta: It was for the last point.) I'm sorry. It's okay. Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u42948	I would like to ask the MP's question to the Minister for Local Self-Government, the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Finance. It concerns one particular case, but this particular case illustrates many cases in Serbia and says that the state does not settle its obligations and many of the businessmen, especially the small ones, are in a position to stop doing their work. The story of Antić Stojan from the village of Senja, near Čupre, who, as a returnee from abroad, invested all his acquired capital in buses, founded a small company and deals with the transport of pupils and pensioners to the municipality as a business manager, and according to public procurement carried out by two primary schools, one of which is called "October 13th", and the other is the school "Vuk Karadzic". The carrier, which is called "Antic d.o.o. Senje", has a problem in terms of a court procedure that should be charged from two primary schools of five and a half and 3.3 million dinars per balance of maturity and Djura Jaksic has debts that are not charged in excess of two million dinars. The problem is in the following: although he has received a court ruling, under which the guarantee of the municipality of Ćupria guarantees that he will make payment for the services performed in the name of 11 million dinars in total, his right to collect the services rendered is literally disputed in a way that requires the non-execution of the judgment by which he does not allow those services to be charged. The procedure for calling public tenders for elementary schools practically comes into one sense if they order a job, and then the one they owe them can't block them under current regulations, and the one who guarantees their obligations makes it impossible to execute a court ruling, where he, as a guarantee, would have to pay off that debt. It is essential that those who carried students and pensioners, owed to the municipality as a guarantee of over 11 million, cannot collect their claim or sue. Will this and similar to those to whom the state owes directly or indirectly, through its authorities, stop working and give up its business or will some unnamed and non-existent assets try to continue their business, pay their salaries to their employees? Whose business is that, whose concern it is, and does these three competent ministries even involve in solving the problem of leaving people without a job directly guilty of the state, which is because of the bad laws, which is because of the failure to comply with the obligations of the state itself? Is the story of employment and that we will come out of the crisis with a responsible relationship between all of us, first of all the state, just another of the nice and interesting stories, like marketing that tries to beat reality? Behind this company is a persistent and hardworking man, over 20 employees, and I ask you to show on such small examples and individual states how much he really cares about his citizens who do their job fairly and effectively.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u42949	The word is from Ambassador Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u42950	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia who are watching this transfer, analyzed the questions I have asked from this place and the questions that colleagues from all MPs have asked in recent years have come to my attention that we have unwarrantedly put one minister, or one ministry, in the shadow and seal, and I will try to serialize the questions by the end of this session, and probably in the autumn, in the course of our regular session, give little chance to the minister, and this is about the foreign minister, Mr Vuk Jeremic, to shed some light on the work, above all of our diplomatic representations abroad. I ask Mr. Vuk Jeremic, our foreign minister, how many pensioners, employees in our diplomatic service, have made their pensions, and are now working and receiving pensions and wages as ambassadors or consuls in various diplomatic representations? I have an example that all citizens have had a chance to see these days. I was shocked and surprised that one of the girls known as the NGO, who, before his appointment as ambassador, had not been taken off the television, at 78 years of age, would probably celebrate his 80th birthday, lives as an ambassador to Ukraine and receives a large pension, has a salary of three thousand euros, media say, and I ask Minister Vuk Jeremic is that true? He lives alone in a rented apartment that pays four thousand euros in Ukraine. You know, Ukraine is also too big and too serious a country, with over 50 million inhabitants and influences in the world, so that we and our country's representatives can play like that. The second question to Mr. Vuk Jeremic concerns the leased space in Paris. I think all citizens know what I'm talking about, which allegedly pays 7,000 euros. You are all aware that even our dear president, the ministry, the media, and all of a sudden it was silent. So, I want to know what the result is, how did they say that the Ministry would conduct an investigation, review that decision, and why couldn't our ambassador to France be our representative to UNESCO, but was it necessary for a lady to represent us in particular? I don't doubt the purpose of her appointment and her work at all, I just want it to be clear to the citizens of Serbia and this assembly that it wasn't some controversy within the court chamber, but that someone is really worried about why Serbian citizens pay for one woman 7,000 euros in living space. The third question I want to ask Mr. Vuk Jeremic is to announce how many people are employed at our embassy in Norway, Oslo, in the last three years, what are their salaries and is it true that our embassy in Norway is only for the wrong parking of ambassadors, ambassadors or our officers record in that country? So there are over 150 foreign embassies in the country and, according to information published in the Norwegian media, Serbia's embassy is convincingly the first to pay fines for wrong parking. It is, therefore, an ambassador or members of the embassy who work there who paid for it, and in fact all Serbian citizens paid for it. The fourth question I have for Mr Vuk Jeremic is to give full information to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the work of our consulate in Strasbourg, how busy people are, how paid they are and how they relate to our citizens who are addressing the consulate. For this final question regarding the work of our consulate in Strasbourg, both the public and you, fellow MPs, at the next sessions will be made more widely aware of why I am asking this question as far as the consulates in Strasbourg are concerned.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u42951	National MP Dragan Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u42952	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after almost six months of trying to obtain information about the privatisation of Luke Belgrade and the company "News", I will give up asking further questions, because it has obviously become pointless to seek answers, and there are no answers to this day. I am sorry that there is no interior minister to whom I have, among other things, sent a letter or question to answer whether it is true that Luke Belgrade's accounts contained 42,300,000 euros. To this day there is no answer, as there are no answers to many questions. It is clear to all citizens of Serbia, when it comes to privatising these two companies, that the great crime on the scene is the link between politics, tycoons and criminals. That's completely obvious. There were not enough sessions of the Defence and Security Committee to raise the issue, but you did something else, you did everything to prevent these issues from being raised. What is particularly important here, Mrs Dejanovic, you have not put more than two months in the procedure of an SRS request for the establishment of a Privatisation Committee for Luke Belgrade, and this is the most obvious evidence that you simply will not deal with crime and corruption because you would have to come into a position to bring yourself to justice and to answer for what is legally prescribed that you have to answer. In all of this, there is the responsibility of a state institution that is the greatest. It is the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office and Republic Public Prosecutor Zagorka Dolovac. Let me remind you that at more than five sessions of the Defence and Security Committee, although it has been properly invited, Zagorka Dolovac has not responded to the call. We now have some information that some pre-crisis procedures have been initiated when it comes to "News" and Luka Belgrade, but I do not believe anything will be done, as has not been done in many cases so far. To remind you of Bojan Krishti what everything had to be done to get that investigation started. I know that a series of irregularities have been found, that there are numerous abuses, that these procedures have been initiated, but that until today, and here it has been more than two years, we also have no epilogue when it comes to Belgrade Airport. That's where you were aware of how much abuse and robbery were involved. I think the most responsible for this is the republican public prosecutor, or the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, through him the Ministry of Justice, or the government, or the ruling majority, because you run a republican public prosecutor. It only serves you when you need to deal with non-insects or to cover up some problems eventually by running something, but after a certain time it will all fall into the water, or it will fall into oblivion. The SRS legal team took both cases. We will make and try to make a criminal complaint against those responsible in the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, especially against the republican public prosecutor Zagorka Dolovac because it is obvious that she did nothing even though she had knowledge that it was a major robbery of the company "News" and Luke Belgrade. Wasn't the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development's response enough that he accurately wrote about "News" until today there is no regulated ownership ratio within the company "News"? More than 10 times these solutions were returned by the company to the ministries, so the court, etc., and you privatised that company and now the company needs to move on to the property of WAC and Boda Hombaha. I ask the question how is that possible, my people? Do you have any consideration? Are you taking care of anything? Something that is absolutely not defined, in a criminal way privatized, and you are now going over it, should be transferred to the property of WAC probably because the President of the Republic promised Bodi Hombahu that he would be given the "News"? That's impossible. You understand, the law is broken and once you've got to clear it up.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u42953	Time. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives, answer for a word under Article 235, we continue to work. We move to the 3rd point of the agenda: – I would like to inform you that the amendments and additions of the Law on the security of road traffic (principles) are prevented from attending MPs: Verko Stevanović, Vlajko Senić, Suzana Grubjesic, Dragi Damjanović, Simo Vuković and Arsen Đurić. According to Article 88(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that aside from the representative of Ivica Dacic, the first Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, I have also called for the sittings to be attended by Milorad Todorovic, Secretary of the Interior Ministry of the Interior, Dragisa Simic, Head of the Department of Transport at the Ministry of Interior, Vladimir Rebic, Deputy Chief of the Department of Transport of the Ministry of the Interior, Demir Hadzic, Head of the Department of Transport of the Ministry of Infrastructure. You have received the proposal for a bill submitted by the Government, you have received a report from the Committee on Transport and Communications, the Committee on European Integration and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups, a relatively number of MPs, members of Parliament groups:Employment Group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; SRS Parliamentary Group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; G17 plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; SPS-JS - 18 minutes; MEP group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group Nova Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds;Send Group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every single one of them for up to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if you have not done so, to file an application for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent: MP Sinisa Stamenkovic, MP of the PUPS; MP Jasmina Milosevic, the SPS-JS parliamentary group; MP Miroslav Petkovic - MP group DSS - Vojislav Kostunica; MP Jovan Nesovic, MP group G 17 plus, MP group of LDP MP Zoran Ostojić, SRS MP Nikola Savic and Parliament group for European Serbia - Mirko Chikiriz. According to Article 142, paragraph 1. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does the first Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Ivica Dacic want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u42954	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to explain this proposal in a few minutes for amendments to the Law on traffic safety on the roads. I want to say before that that all absolute traffic safety indicators, such as the number of car accidents, the number of car accidents with victims, the number of victims, the number of injured persons, indicate a significant reduction in the casualties on our roads since the start of the new law. The number of traffic accidents in the first six months of this year is down 32.5% compared to the same period of the previous year. The number of accidents with victims is lower by 20.1% compared to the same period of the previous year. The death toll from January to June this year is down 32.9% compared to the same period in 2009. The total number of victims was lower by 20.3% compared to the same period of the previous year. Based on what I said, it is certain that the first contribution of the new Traffic Safety Act is on the roads that it is viewed primarily in reducing the loss on our roads, the greater discipline of all traffic users and the introduction of more order in the area of traffic security. During the first 13 days of July 2010, 1,567 car accidents occurred on our roads, killing 29 people, while 682 people were injured. In the first 13 days of July of last year, 2,435 accidents occurred in Serbia that killed 51 people, while 949 people were injured. As you can see, these parameters show that there has been a significant reduction and car accidents, as well as the number of deaths. So, in the first 13 days of July last year 51 faces, and this year 29 faces. The most common causes of traffic accidents are the unadjusted speed of movement and irregular overruns and passing. A significant involvement in the causes of car accidents is also the management of the vehicle under the influence of alcohol. According to the total number of victims in traffic accidents on the roads in the Republic of Serbia, the biggest casualties were recorded on the passages of bus and regional roads through the settlements. However, with regard to accidents with the most severe injury, death or serious bodily injuries, the most severe accidents occur on the so-called so-called. open roads, i.e. stocks outside the settlement. Thus, the percentage participation of serious physical injuries and fatalities in the total number of traffic accidents is significantly higher on the roads outside the settlements compared to the shares in the settlements. During the first six months of this year, 609 motorcycle accidents occurred on our roads. Of this number, 460 car accidents are with the victims. In these accidents 23 motorbike drivers died, while 550 suffered serious or minor injuries. In the same period last year, 760 motorcycle accidents occurred on our roads, which is 19.9% higher than the same period this year. The reduction of motorcyclists killed during 2010 is even more important. Thus, during 2010, a reduction of 41% of motorcycle drivers died was recorded. Also, when it comes to the structure of deceased persons, a reduction in the number of killed drivers of 36.3%, a reduction in the number of 26% and a reduction in the number of killed pedestrians of 39.2% were recorded. Since the beginning of 2010, there have been 21,037 drivers who operated the vehicle under alcohol, while 33,994 drivers have been discovered in the first six months of 2009. The major impact on this reduction also had on the adoption of a new law because a significantly larger threatened sentence, as well as the application of the detention measure up to 12 hours, has achieved sufficient effect to reduce the overall number of drivers discovered under the alcohol factor by 38.1%. In the first six months of 2010, 58.4% of non-binding belts were reduced during driving. The number of illegal stops or parking offences is lower in the first six months of this year by 27.2% compared to the same period of the previous year. Like I said, the largest number of accidents happened in a populated place. I speak the largest number by number, but by consequence, the largest number by number in populated areas, and the largest number with severe consequences is out of populated places. The most pronounced reduction in the number of car accidents that occurred outside the settlement, on open roads, was recorded in the area of the police administration in Sapac, as much as 79% lower than in the same period last year. Next up is Novi Pazar, where 70% reduction was recorded, Kruševac by 64%, Kraljevo by 49%, Panchevo by 40%, etc. The most common causes of traffic accidents are an unadjusted rate of movement with 34% of accidents. Turning on or improper vehicle operations in traffic 28%, failure to comply with the 12.5% passing championship, alcohol-based driving 5.6%. Observed by the appearance of car accidents, the most accidents occurred as a result of a blow to a stopped or parked vehicle. The next sighting by the number of accidents is a collision when driving in the same direction. Followed by a lateral collision, a collision from opposite directions and a knock-off or foot-tightening. In the first six months of the infringement, the illegal speed of movement is 27%, the failure of light during the day 14%, the non-binding of belts during the first six months is 12%, the illegal stopping or parking of 11.7%, the driving of the vehicle under the alcohol-efficient 5%, the irregular movement of the pedestrian 1.8%. The number of vehicle management offences under the fact that alcohol was reduced by more than 45% compared to the same period last year. Ladies and gentlemen, the Traffic Safety Act on Roads has been in place since December of last year. During the application of the Road Safety Act, it has been established that certain provisions of the law are not adequate for real conditions, i.e. they do not have adequate content on the basis of which certain infringements may and must be sanctioned. You remember when we passed this law that I was and then I said that this would be one of the laws that, because it is a law that practically speaks of certain violations, most of all might be subject to review in the next period. All those provisions which are found to be better will be amended, regardless of whether they are original texts or some other points of view which have occurred under this law. I would also remind you that she was involved in writing this law. professional public, so college professors and various other traffic scientists, but one thing is what it sounds like in theory, and the other is how it works in real life. Because of this, we believe that certain criminal measures would give a much more significant effect by altering or introducing the possibility of selecting legal sanctions, such as prison sentences or fines. This is particularly important, given the experience of some European countries, such as Great Britain, Germany, Austria, Slovenia, Italy, where there is a much better effect in these countries in respect of respecting the law, but from the point of view of traffic security achieved by applying high fines instead of prison sentences. Also when it comes to the cost and profit of the state, the possibility of an alternative between prison and fines is very important. Some proposed changes have led to the possibility of reducing police officers involved in the activities of detecting and sanctioning violations. I'd like to point out that in real law enforcement, meaning in everyday life, things like this happen that we'd have to regulate by law. For example, there have been a lot of cases where simply the only punishment that is scheduled is a prison sentence for overspeed. In real life, very different things have happened. You have foreign citizens passing through our country and it happened that they were immediately taken to prison and the whole family was left without anyone who knew how to drive a vehicle or that they could continue on the road. Also, here's the chief of traffic police, and I think if we continue to apply these provisions of the law, we'll simply have a problem because of a large number of people who would have to go to jail on that basis. Practically, you're absolutely right, that would lead to even a few years, maybe even delaying the execution of those penalties, simply because it's not possible at a certain time. So, on the notice of the Department of Traffic Police somewhere around 4,000 people should have such a 15-day prison sentence. On the other hand, in real life there were other things going on. The law wasn't intended for this particular debate, and you remember we discussed it here as well. There were different things going on in real life. For example, to stop an ambulance, to stop a vehicle, a private vehicle or a taxi driver driving someone to a hospital, to drive someone into labor, to stop the official vehicles of the security services police, etc., which are on security tasks, where a traffic policeman has no legal requirements that something regulated as a violation simply does not record as a traffic violation. That is why it is foreseen here when, for some security reasons, for work, first of all, for human reasons, such as emergency assistance, such as interventions in life saving, etc., there is the possibility that a simple competent authority within the MUP and not every one, but the Traffic Police Administration, can at some point simply not record it, not process it as a violation regulated by the Road Safety Act. I have already said how much positive effects have been achieved in the application of this law, although it is not yet applied in full capacity. In addition to these results, practices have shown that, in order to make more effective application in the text of the law, certain amendments and additions need to be made, which will ensure consistent compliance with the rules and greater security of traffic participants, as well as compliance with relevant international documents adopted in the meantime. In addition to this, the reason for the adoption of this law is to specify the procedure, and to ensure efficiency in the application of the law, on the one hand, and streamlining and reducing the number of police officers required to ensure its enforcement, on the other hand. The proposed amendments define the terms, day-to-day management, day-to-day rest and Sunday, which brings the European Directive 1992/6i into line with the provisions of the European Labour Agreement – the crew of vehicles. Legal basis is provided for the adoption of regulations that will be closer to determining the conditions to be met by auditors, allowing for the reduction of the number of police officers involved in the activities of detecting and sanctioning violations, improper stopping and parking. A derogation shall be established from the general regime of compulsory undertaking in taking action to determine the criminal liability and in relation to the conduct of the perpetrators conditioned for socially and morally justified and acceptable reasons. The possibility of selecting a fine or sentence for violations under Article 330 shall be introduced. The law, which reduces the costs of the state in the realisation of the prison sentence. It will define the currency in the prescribed fines, as certain editorial improvements in the text. We propose that this law be passed, and we suggest that it be adopted by emergency procedure, so as to avoid traffic being avoided in these seasons, there may be certain gaps in the implementation of this law and in order to allow in conditions where traffic is increased simply to avoid problems that may come from the directly defined provisions of this law. Also, together with you MPs, we are ready to review the provisions of this law that are established in practice in order to make them more effective. Legal matter is a living organism because this law is not a law that applies several times a year. This is a law that applies to thousands of places in Serbia every day. On the other hand, we will also have technological improvements in the work of the traffic police that will lead to the provision of this law being brought into line with European standards, especially when we reach this technological and material level, where we will introduce video surveillance measures on our cars, where the practically role of traffic cops will be reduced to a minimum, only to traffic regulation, and not to record traffic offences. I call on you to support this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Road Safety and to remind ourselves of what we said when we adopted the previous text of the law, that the ultimate objective of this law is not to introduce restrictive measures towards citizens, but to reduce the number of people killed and injured and the damage that exists in our society at all because of traffic accidents. If that was our goal, I think we succeeded in it by reducing 32% by the number of accidents, and 32% by the number of deaths, and the number of injured persons by almost 20%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u42955	Does the rapporteur of the Transport and Communications Committee, MP Velimir Ilic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? (No) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on European Integration, MP Laslo Varga, want a word? (No) Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? (No) Do the MPs Radica Jocic and Momir Markovic, the MPs who issued an opinion at the session of the Committee on European Integration, want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Radica Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u42956	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the Committee on European Integration, I have issued an opinion on the draft law amending and supplementing the Traffic Safety Act on the Roads because I want to draw attention to a few things. One of the basic amendments proposed for Article 330. The traffic safety law is that for the most severe violations, instead of automatic prisons from 15 to 45 days and 14 criminal points, it allows payment of fines from 100,000 to 120,000 dinars or if you have caused an accident of 120,000 to 150,000 dinars. In the government, they managed the logic that this would save the costs of the offenders' accommodations and at the same time earn additional money. According to some budgets, only for serious violations in the first five months could the state have made slightly less than half a billion dinars that this change, now predicted, was incorporated into the winter law. The explanation also states that the benefit would be multiple because the largest part of these funds are charged with fines designed to improve traffic safety. There are opinions that in this way, those whose money has long meant nothing will be able to rage in the streets and avoid jail, and otherwise ordinary citizens who will not have the money to pay the fines will have to go to jail. Among other things, the state loses around 2.7 billion euros in traffic each day at rehabilitation costs, insights, court costs and the like. One of the reasons that goes in favour of paying the fine is that trials for such offences take a long time, to wait for months and even years to come. In the end, everything loses its meaning, and it's not easy to put everyone in jail. According to the MUP, members of the traffic police have submitted 4,774 applications since the start of the law for violations for which at least 15 days in prison and 209 applications for violent driving are being filed from 30 to 60 days in prison. The SRS has submitted a number of amendments to this bill and will try to correct the proposed law as of autumn. I would like to know, since these funds are envisaged among other things and for improving traffic safety, how many penalties should be charged so that, for example, the security of traffic, let's say, in the Sitician clicure, is improved, so that, in the future, for example, in the day of the Bela Palanka municipality, ministers do not have to land by helicopter to open a few kilometers of asphalt road which, of course, is not new, but in three days before the ceremony is just a thin layer of asphalt that will not last until the next election. Even at that km, the callability for which the municipality has already allocated quite a few times from the budget because every major flood after the rain takes it back. Citizens from the Sićevaćka ravine to the border with Bulgaria, i.e. in the municipalities of Bela Palanka, Piroth and Dimitrovgrad, they look forward to work on Corridor 10, but they are not more serious, no matter how many times opened, of course, all in order to improve traffic safety, but also because citizens from these municipalities could work as much as possible because jobs in these municipalities are getting less and less.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u42957	The word is held by MP Momir Markovic, who also issued an opinion at the session of the European Integration Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u42958	At the government's telephone session, chaired by the Deputy Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, a decision was made to release the draft law amending the Transport Safety Act into the procedure and to come to the National Assembly and these two authorised the first Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior to explain this bill to the MPs. Of course, these two in these three have the highest confidence that they will professionally explain this bill. When I read Orwell's "84" a long time ago, I thought it was simply impossible to introduce such rigorous control and monitoring of each individual. Now that we've started to pass some of the laws, let's say the Telecommunications Act, then the Traffic Safety Act, and some other laws, I realized that I was wrong then. The state can also control a twenty-four-hour follow-up to put each individual in place. With cameras you've cross-bordered not only Belgrade but all the cities and many citizens of Serbia, many citizens of Belgrade will soon, when they start to get their payments with the amount they have to pay because the camera has caught them somewhere, be surprised. Special story is interceptors. One of my acquaintances told me that they were following him, and he was able to hurry, and when he hurried, those in front of him, excuse me, it was all recorded. So there's that possibility. Will an increase in the amount of fines reduce the number of violations? He won't. The one who's been driving so hard so far will continue to drive, but with this amendment and the addition of the law, you allow him not to go to jail for 15 days, but to pay those 120,000 dinars, and the one who has the car for a bajata ride, there must be that 120,000. In contrast, someone who hastened to go 65 or 70 instead of 60 will surely get stuck for the 15 days. But what made me stand out is that three government representatives here now explain some of the misunderstandings. For example, you added to Article 7 point. 101st and 102nd. These first ones can be understood somehow. I'm particularly interested in point 102. Says – Sunday is the period between Monday at 00.00 hours and Sunday at 24:00. As far as I know, there's not a single second between 2400 hours and Monday 00.00 hours. If by any chance you might have thought of working Sunday, then you had to write here – working week is from, so on, because quotes can't be read and quotes can't be spoken except to say, now in quotes working week. As far as I know, no law forces us to read what's in quotes so that it's in quotes. Article 224 says: the driver must use the daily rest within 24 hours of the end of the previous vacation, or within 30 hours if the driver is part of a multi-member crew and that is fine. When two drivers are replaced in the vehicle management referred to in Article 243 and if there is a bed in the vehicle that allows one of them to rest in a lying position, each driver shall have a continuous rest period of eight hours within 30 hours. The rest referred to in Article 1(1) and (2) of this Article shall be used by the driver outside the vehicle or in the vehicle if it does not move. What does that mean? If you take the two of them driving and everyone has to have, as many as you say here, eight hours of rest in 30 hours, that means - 16 hours of the vehicle can't move if they have beds in the cabin and they're resting there. Let's move on. The competent unit of the Ministry may waive the application to initiate the infringement procedure to the competent authority, if the offence has been committed because of the fact that a traffic participant, acting as an offence, has acted in order to protect safety, i.e. to protect and save lives, health or property. Who determines the procedure for protection? Is it going to happen, can theoretically happen that two people are in the same situation, in the same place in the same case and that one... (President: five minutes. ..... Let me just finish. I won't, though.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u42959	Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? Yeah. National MP Siniša Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u42960	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, the Honorable Mr. Associates, today or this Assembly of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, had a great political responsibility, which it still has, to briefly consider and pass a large number of basic, extremely significant laws. One of those laws that this parliament passed is the Road Safety Act, and we adopted it in December 2009. Of all the laws adopted so far in their application, the best results have just been given by the Road Traffic Safety Act. It is truly fair and fair to give recognition to all the members of the MUP for the successful application of this law since December 2009 until today. Many lives have been saved, huge material values have been preserved. The traffic safety law on the roads in stricter application gave very good results, which Mr. Minister was talking about and I won't repeat. There's been a significant decrease in the number of fatal accidents. To a large extent, the number of traffic accidents with major material damage has been reduced and the number of infringements has been significantly reduced. The arrogance and haughtiness of traffickers have been reduced. In all major cities, the overall improvement of the traffic culture and the knowledge of the traffic regulations of our citizens began and significantly improved traffic-technical conditions on the roads, which is the obligation of the state. However, the practice has also shown that there are some harmonisations lacking in the law with the general international documents, which have been adopted and imposed on all, including us. The fact is that it is necessary to innovate the Law by precision of certain procedures in order to ensure an even more effective application of the Road Safety Act. Amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act should allow an urgent procedure to rationalise the use of all officials and techniques in ensuring the enforcement of the provisions of this law. The PUPS parliamentary group believes that this law has made a significant shift in raising the level of general traffic security and bringing our standards closer to world standards, which is why the MUP needs to recognise the successful application of the first part of the law and further support it and enable it to apply the same rules. Given the results so far achieved during the eight months and the results from the number of criminal and criminal proceedings detected and processed, as well as data on the collection of fines for violations in the first five months of 2010 and above all from Article 330. The ZOBS, mentioned by Mr Minister, imposes an obligation to supplement a number of provisions of the Transport Safety Act on the roads under an urgent procedure with those provisions that specify and technical improvement of certain technical solutions. It is very important to find out and publicly announce that all proposed changes and additions to the Road Safety Act were in fact fully implemented and intended to benefit self-disciplined, responsible traffic users, as well as to further strengthen the irresponsibility of non-aware, alcoholic, drugged, arrogant and other unwanted traffic users. The PUPS Group appreciates the need to provide a legal basis for the adoption of regulations that are closer to regulating the conditions to be met by auditors in order to obtain the status of auditors, which includes the implementation of training and the submission of a state examination for the calling of auditors. We agree that the Ministry and the Government accept a number of technical amendments that are closer to regulating the jurisdiction and responsibility of future auditors, regardless of the political groups that these amendments propose. We accept this law as a matter of urgency, quality, professionally and responsibly to comply with this law with the provisions of the European agreement on the work of crews on heavy cargo vehicles. We are aware that we must also implement all conditions for carrying out internal and international transport and transport. At this point, our carriers and transporters in international traffic may not have adequate material and technical conditions for participation in international transit, but these conditions must be met sooner or later, or our crews will not be able to take part in international transport. In establishing the right to derogation from the general regime on mandatory action to establish a criminal liability for those traffic participants who have been conditioned by socially and morally justified and acceptable reasons for the infringements, which Mr. Minister spoke of, expressed a certain level of caution for the proper and justified determination of such offenders and with as little social, economic and material damage as possible. We trust that the workers of the MUP will rightly establish that the offenders of the new Article 314a have indeed had to commit a violation that is socially justified, if they prevent or mitigate the consequences of traffic accidents, accidents on roads, fires, floods and the like. The PUPS parliamentary group supports amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act because the practice has shown that in traffic continues to appear unconscious drivers driving under the fact that they are driving under alcohol, that they are still on the mobile phone from the vehicle, that pedestrians continue to call across the pedestrian crossing. In particular, we are in favour of the provision of a member of the Law sanctioning arrogant and arrogant traffic users, considering too many traffic accidents in major cities for these very reasons, such as motorists, as Mr. Minister spoke of. We believe that the responsibility which has been processed and proven for such a ride must be punished not only by fines, but even by jail time. We support the regulation of all technical meanings of traffic factors, and above all, the daily time of driving heavy motor vehicles that must be strictly respected. We support the establishment of a daily vacation as a time period in which drivers must be placed; to carry out regular analyses of the high-risk shares of our roads, not only for a year, but for six months, if possible, and depending on the material possibilities and needs; to carry out the day-to-day bus control obligations, not more than nine hours, or two times a week at a time for ten hours, and, above all, on school bus drivers, bearing in mind the very ungrateful experience we have gained in this direction. The PUPS Group supports the provision of a law which obliges drivers who, when operating a freight vehicle or a set of vehicles whose maximum mass is greater than 3,5 000 kilograms or especially by bus, are not allowed to have a day-to-day driving time of more than nine hours, regardless of any technical problems which may be observed in the application of this provision. In particular, we advocate that the necessary technical and material conditions are created as soon as possible to control traffic through video surveillance or photo-recording, and in order to establish a properly parked or stopped vehicle under the provisions of this law, which is a major problem in all cities, including Belgrade. We believe that making a solution to the removal of the vehicle within three minutes, and in electronic form, will greatly improve the traffic regime in all our cities. We believe that it is particularly important that police officers are now being returned to the authorities so that they can immediately and without delay order that from the place where the discarded vehicle is found, the same must be removed in the way the law prescribes. In particular, the PUPS Group is of the opinion that both this amendment and the addition of the Road Safety Act must fully establish and determine the responsibility of bus and transport undertakings for the complete technical correctness of vehicles carrying out the transport of passengers and goods and, in particular, students, for full material and criminal liability for the declared and approved timetable and for the full liability of the transporter. The PUPS Group expects that the ministry will determine in a relatively short time the conditions that bus transport companies must meet, as well as legal and natural persons carrying out passenger transport, in the light of the general and social public interest of all our citizens and all traffic participants. The parliamentary group advocates that the ministry accepts a number of amendments that are, in fact, only a good technical draft of the proposed members of the law, regardless of which political group they came from, because it is everyone's interest to make road safety the maximum possible. The PUPS Group will support amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act in the day of voting, with the support of the technical amendments of the honourable MPs, with the publicly commended MUP made within a short period of time and with full support in efforts to make more and more comprehensive application of the provisions of this law to all traffic participants.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u42961	9.30 minutes of the authorized representative's time has been used. The next reported word is National MP Jasmina Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u42962	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, all from one of the competent ministries, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, last year at this time, and we passed this new Transport Safety Act, which, at that moment, replaced by a completely anachronous law, I am free to say the law that is already from the last century. And if I say that we have passed a modern law then, whose provisions have already come into effect since December, I don't think that it's "modern", as they call us, in some modern sense, that it's good for everything that's modern, but modern, because it's completely accompanied all the progress and everything that's been going on in traffic in the last 30, 40, 50 years, which means the changes of the participants themselves in traffic and their behaviors in vehicle traffic and quite new phenomena that we have, such as mobile phones, rollers, etc. As I said, the law has already started to apply in December, or some of its provisions, for some of us wait a few more months, until we agree on the technical checks themselves, to pass the driving exams, and I'll talk about that later. I would also like to welcome all the people of the Ministry and their willingness to do what in practice, and has already taken effect in December, did not produce adequate results and that it is not good to change now, where the consequences of certain provisions are bad. So the Empire was always that base and the only place we could best see how something worked. So, by this law, what's most important, we protect people's lives, and that's why we all have to pay attention, because outside of this facility, what we are, we are, we are, in traffic, whether we're drivers or pedestrians. That's why this law should put out every political connotation and that we're all working on it together, because we're all, like I said, involved in traffic. The minister has already said, I would only sublimely sublimely, that already the results given by this law are such that they look at more than 30% of reduced car accidents, the number of deaths has been reduced by about 30% and 7% injured. If we take into account that these are good results that are only after a certain part of the provisions that have entered into force, we can freely say that we expect that next year, when and following legal acts, rules and provisions will come into force, we will have better results. This is the good results of law enforcement and the results of police work, because she worked all the time with local self-government, because not only do citizens know the law, but the people who carry it out, so the appeal to the public, the appeal to the police to respect the law and the constant working with the police in local self-government, in fact, is one result of all this that's been going on for a year. So it's impossible by any law to change people's minds, but people can raise themselves, and that's how we showed it. In addition, these results also show the application of this law, since any law unless it is applicable and we will finally be classified in the order of the countries that manage traffic security. Statistics have shown, from the part concerning the offenders themselves, which is said by the minister, although I would best appeal to the pedestrians at this time, because they are primarily one of the risk groups that continues to make a large number of violations, by running over to the red light, passing past the marked pedestrian crossing and still talking on the mobile phone. Also, as far as stationary traffic, illegal parking and use of mobile phones in the driver is concerned, only the things that point to us in the future should be campaigned and how we should appeal to citizens in order to reduce those items by the number of offenders in the future. What's left of us? As I've already said, a formal and formal transport security agency is being formed, and by the end of the year we need to do it by following the laws and regulations, and then we'll have a complete picture of the law itself. These days have already begun, and whatever the end of the year, setting up a new signalling, for which, in addition to the new traffic sign, which we will soon have, which has already appeared, which is the marking of the settlement, we must also send out European trends, which is, say, that yellow has long since been cast out, because it has been observed that a special application on the road has been inserted as white as visible. Then, for roadblocks, impact holes, etc., i.e. correct signalling is necessary because it is the basic form of communication between traffic participants, road and travel environments. We need material resources for this, and what has enabled us to apply the new Transport Safety Act, we have certain means that are already being used, and 30% of these funds go to local self-governments, which will be able to work on modernising complete equipment, signalling and hopefully that one day all of Serbia will be covered by ITS systems, when in particular every driver, the traffic participant will get in electronic traffic form on the road. As for the amendments and additions to this law by the members proposed to us, I will refer to two members. When the debate is in particular, we'll talk about everyone in more detail. I would draw attention to Article 45(2), which says that goods vehicles whose mass exceeds three and a half thousand pounds and buses must have the correct speed limit. In particular, for people who may not be in the profession, it is logical that a borderline should be installed, however, what the cargo vehicles have usually does not have is certainly a tachograph. The tachograph is the ID card of the means of transport, he tells us about the way the vehicle was transported, how it was used, how long, how the driver was treated in traffic, so that if our vehicle, assuming that our vehicle, goes abroad and asks for a tachograph, it can be punished based on it, because if we pass technical control as well, it will turn out that it can be excluded from traffic. So, as far as the facts are concerned, I've made this particularly clear at the moment. We also had a discussion on the Traffic Committee, especially there's always an item in the law that particularly intrigues the public, it is by definition always about money, which is, in this case, Article 330, where we have given the opportunity to pay a fine of 100,000, 120 thousand and 150 thousand dinars instead of lying down. I want to say the next thing I know, when Mr. Moma Markovic spoke earlier, he forgot one thing to say, he said someone would have money to pay, yes, but someone would be denied a traffic permit. He may have accidentally forgotten to say it, so if he's a returnee in a similar incident and a misdemeanor, I still doubt that after a year or two inability to drive, that kind of thing will happen again. The second thing, they also told us on the Committee that it's supposed to be a crisis, that people don't have money, I apologize, but I want to draw everyone's attention: why they break the law. So why is someone in a drunk state sitting behind a wheel, because that's not only putting his life at risk, it's jeopardizing other people's lives, and what's known, sir, makes us free. Whoever respects the laws, he won't have any problems with any fines or prison sentences. So for the end, I just want to say that our SPS-JS parliamentary group will support amendments and additions to this law in the voting day. We have also submitted some amendments, I hope that they will be adopted and I welcome once again for the fact that some changes are already being made and some of the provisions that have proved to be bad in practice, and why the law if it is not applicable and it does not produce good results.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u42963	Eight minutes and 25 seconds of MP time used. Next reported by authorised representatives, MP Jovan Nesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u42964	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we have before us today an amendment to the Transport Safety Act. We passed this law at the end of May of last year, and the application of this law began on 1 December 2009. The first month, in fact, was more likely to draw attention to the law newspaper in traffic, and law enforcement began as of January 1st this year. The full and full application of the law is expected at the end of this year, as it seems to me that the ministry has not passed a certain sublegal act that is closer to regulate certain things that are related to the law and it is clear that full application of this law will happen at the end of this year. The main goal of passing this law last year is to reduce the number of traffic accidents. Another very important thing was to reduce the number of traffic accidents, especially those where we have a fatal outcome, and that also means reducing the huge material costs associated with all traffic accidents. So, in one word, the goal was to increase traffic safety, traffic participants, and that means to define clear procedures, clear criteria, to define also a good criminal policy that will lead to this main goal, which is to increase traffic security. Seven months after the application, you can see what the analysis of the application of the law is. If we take some data before the law was passed, for example from 2008, when the World Bank published certain things that are related to Serbia, there were 16 000 and 651 car accidents in Serbia, with 900 people killed and 22,000 injured people in car accidents in 2008, and estimated to have been material costs, material damage to all these car accidents, and in 2008, there were two billion euros. We have to admit, in a poor country like Serbia, two billion euros are indeed huge funds. What Mr. Minister said was that compared to 2009 and 2008, the number of car accidents in these six months of law enforcement was reduced by 32.5%, that the number of people who died was reduced by 33%, and that the number of people injured in car accidents was reduced by 20%, or the number of victims, and those who were injured and killed was reduced by about 23-24%. If we take that first data and compare it with that data that I just said in 2008 that the damage in 2008 was about two billion and a reduction in traffic accidents of about 30%, it can't be said exactly, then it should be expected that from this material side of the savings in this year, compared to 2008, about 600 million euros. This is not an exact information, but it can be concluded and that is a fact that is important for every traffic participant, but also for the country in general. On the other hand, it is good that all those traffic offences that are related to alcohol-related driving, psychophysical substances when used, simply precedes, more speed than is allowed, thanks to the application of the provisions of the new law, probably the criminal policy defined for those offences, so all these consequences are reduced, which from the point of view of the safety of the participants in traffic is good. The question is whether it is good after five, six, seven months to change certain members of the law, if we consider that the Traffic Safety Act is indeed one complex law and that certain things he defined and applied in practice simply could not be predicted when the law was passed. I must also admit to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Strengthened Emergency to admit that certain things are not good and that they need to be changed as soon as possible in order to have a better application of the law in practice. When we look at these members who are being changed, they are related to the clarification of certain members and certain views and another new member is being introduced, it seems to me that it is a member of 314a who is a new member added to the law, and the objective of these amendments is to respect more consistently the Transport Safety Act, to increase the security of traffic users in Serbia, to bring certain legal provisions into line with international documents that are important and ultimately the goal is to reduce the number of necessary police officers and officials to implement this law. What is the most important change in this law seems to me to be that 330, which defined that traffic users who do not comply with certain legal standards defined in traffic, which is driving a vehicle without proper permission, driving with more than two alcohol spills in the blood, refusing alcohol tests or drug tests, exceeding 50 kilometers per hour in the slow-driving zone, and that is most often in the urban environments. Then, overspeed by more than 60 kilometers per hour in zone 30, these are areas where children can get on the road, and going through a red light through a pedestrian crossing where pedestrians are located, where this traffic safety law defines a 15-day sentence, the possibility is that a judge for violations can punish a participant, or driver with 15 days in prison or a fine of 100 to 120 thousand dinars. One more thing is the sentence that was between 30 and 60 days in prison, when you still challenge these violations and a car accident, then here you give the possibility that the penalty can then remain or the possibility of a fine of 120 and 150 thousand dinars. This has caused controversy in the public whether this provision in the law is good or not, many believe that it is, the other is not, it is, it is, and it is against, but it seems to me that this provision is better than it was. Some things the minister said, too, is that we really have a transit through our country, where foreign citizens go through our country, some cause of accident, some have to go 15 days to jail, there's just no one to drive a car, these people have to settle in Serbia, the costs, the inconvenience and everything that's related to family life, and I think that's what had to be in mind. On the other hand, if you look at the statistics that are so far, it means from January 1st to June 4,774 applications for violations that are tied to 15 days in prison, and 209 applications related to violent driving, which is 30 to 60 days in prison, if all the people who are to go to jail very quickly would not have the capacity to be placed, it would be possible to wait two or three years for these people to serve their 15-day legal sentences. I'm sorry, but for three or four years, waiting on it is really a lot, and even that provision just can't give a full effect. There's one more thing we shouldn't be running from, so far if this were to be calculated that these fines were charged, about 430, 440 million dinars would be in the budget, and that money could be used for the safety of traffic participants and in these crisis times 440 million dinars per se is not a small sum of money that can be invested wisely. So, looking at all this stuff, and leaving the possibility that a judge for a misdemeanor tomorrow can even sentence a prison sentence if one of these things repeats it several times, then I just think that this provision is very good. It also seems to me to be a good member of this new 314a, where you simply have a situation in your life when someone is sick, so it has to be transported or when an ambulance has to be transported because of a disease, means when people are at risk, it can simply happen at some point, and it's given to the officers of the MUP at such times that they simply don't write criminal charges for a simple reason because it saves someone's life and increases people's safety. Indeed, it is a good thing, after all, it is something that happens in ordinary life and it seems to me to be something that should be incorporated into this law. I hope this law does not lead to the abuse of this member. After all, there's a police officer who has internal control and the chief controls a police officer, so I guess there's gonna be a reduction in the possibility of using this member to abuse someone, so he doesn't pay the fine if there's no patients in the car and he was driving fast. When we talk about traffic safety, the one thing we need to mention here is the quality of travel economy in the state of Serbia, because it is not just enough to have car safety, good safety, safe drivers and a simple and road economy, or the quality of traffic on which traffic takes place is important for traffic safety. For this reason, it is very important, and the minister said that the largest number of car accidents took place on the main and regional roads, especially in populated areas, and with the highest fatalities, the most severe consequences are in open spaces, master's and regional roads, which means that there is a great frequency of traffic and that it is driving faster, and therefore, when the collision occurs, there are more serious consequences. It is good that the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Infrastructure have defined in the coming period that somewhere around 16 billion euros will be invested in the development of traffic infrastructure, which means where the biggest traffic accidents on the Ibari Masteral are on the road to Predejani-Kruševac, where the frequency of traffic is simply going to build highways. The highways will pass the settlements. So there won't be so much traffic in populated areas, and that means there's going to be a huge reduction in the number of traffic accidents, and that's going to increase traffic safety. I am absolutely sure that the construction of Corridor 10, the construction of a highway from Belgrade to Preljina, i.e. Požega towards the Montenegrin border, the construction of a highway that will connect Pojate and Predina, the forest ring, as well as the construction of highways in Vojvodina and southern Serbia, from the point of view of the safety of road users in traffic will be very important, and that is the goal, ultimately, of the government and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and of all those who are engaged in public work. It is clear that the next period of this law will define certain changes, because certain things that are not the way we want them to be, because we are in the state of Serbia and should not at all run away from simply maybe in the next six months certain members, who can improve the quality of the law and better application in practice, and all in order to ensure the safety of every traffic participant, should be proposed to the National Assembly and I think that the National Assembly will always adopt it. As for the G 17 Plus parliamentary group, we think that these amendments and additions to the Transport Safety Act are aimed precisely at the security of traffic participants and our parliamentary group will support these changes and invite other parliamentary groups to do the same in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u42965	12 minutes and 10 seconds have been used for the mandated representative of the parliamentary group. National MP Nikola Savic is registered in the electronic system.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u42966	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are considering a bill on amendments to the Transport Safety Act. Although we are living in a time of great and severe economic crisis and in many things we are lagging behind Europe and the world, there is one thing with which productivity we can boast, and that is this Parliament. We are somewhere in the middle of this year, and parliament has passed more than 140 laws, and given the fact that the other day, in principle, we discussed the proposal for a new Rules of Procedure and that it will almost certainly be adopted in the coming days, this productivity of this Parliament will be even greater. Is that exactly what it needs to be and whether it gives the quality of the law remains to be seen. This is the way this Parliament works and the productivity it produces reminds me of a communist time from the former Soviet period, when at the congress of Soviet writers, a delegate, thanking the progress of Soviet literature, said: "Today we have 30 writers in a clear field, and before the revolution we had only one – Lava Tolstoy. ". It is the principle by which this parliament is working and we see, as the government has nothing to boast about, then it is parliament that makes laws expressly and speedily, and then serves Serbian citizens so that they have the impression that something is done in the country of Serbia. As a result, it is not surprising that changes and additions of different laws are found on the agenda of this congregation, and since that is the case, it is obvious that you are not concerned with quality but with quantity. Of course, the most important thing is the quality of the law, and the quantity should be in a different plan. It is clear that some laws must, at a certain time and time interval, be passed, but the quality of the law is what should be first. The law we're talking about today was passed a year ago. Its application began half a year ago, and here we are doing his alterations and additions after six months of emergency procedure. I don't see any reason to amend and supplement this law by emergency procedure, by emergency procedure, especially I don't see it for the reasons the government has given in an explanation. In my opinion, these reasons are absolutely pointless. We had the opportunity to hear Minister Dacic who, in his opening statement, mainly presented statistics which essentially did. I agree that the application of the new law has led to a reduction in the number of traffic accidents, but I believe that this report should have been even more comprehensive. The reason for the amendments to the law states that these changes are being made because a directive has been amended there somewhere. I think that applies to the European directive, number 1992 through I don't know what number. I ask this question whether the laws are passed according to someone's directives, or whether you recognize that laws are passed according to someone's directives or laws are passed according to real needs, which should be. In line with what I said, whether the Transport Safety Act will change whenever a regulation is changed in the EU or in our country, however, a regulation that regulates the transport of passengers and goods in domestic and international traffic, or when a regulation relating to the categorisation of roads and vehicles is changed, when a regulation in the field of health is changed, when a regulation in the field of labour relations, regulations in the field of services, environmentals, linguistics etc. During the adoption and basic text of the law, you did not take enough care of the opinion of professional people, and I remind you, there were a lot of suggestions of well-intentioned and various objections and therefore we have an opportunity in one place in this law to see that his changes and additions are made by linguists and not by people of profession. The text of the Traffic Safety Act is large and in some things it unnecessarily penetrates areas that essentially do not have many touching traffic points. As a result, we have a situation that the law cannot be fully applied for the second year in a row, and we have things in law that are absolutely and completely inapplicable in practice. In several cases, however, the minister confirmed this, saying it was one of the reasons some provisions are changing. If we do a little review of the amendments and the additions of this law, we will see that the basic sentence in this law is the most used sentence: "A closer provision is prescribed by the minister responsible for traffic operations". This sentence does not go through and repeat not only in this law, but this sentence is drawn and repeated through all the laws proposed by this Government. Here we have, for example, the situation that for essential things from the field and domains of driving training, from the fields of curricula and the contents of the auto-school programme, from the field of characteristics of the vehicle for training, plan and method of passing exams, the way, the composition and formation of the examination committees is responsible for the police minister. Is he in charge of all these jobs, or is that very closely professionally related to the post of minister of police? Of course it isn't and it confirms this thesis that you haven't taken into account the opinion of the relevant people dealing with this problem. So we have a situation that the Traffic Safety Act was brought in when current high school students were the founding fathers, and as things stand, they will finish high school, and driver's license will probably come through the old system and the old law. It will take at least a few more years for the competent minister and the competent ministry to pass the proper regulations without which, of course, every law is a dead letter on paper. I think the Traffic Safety Act means about 40 regulations, and as long as they're all passed, at this rate and this dynamic, although I know that some of them, while all of them are being passed, may be the text of the basic law and the text of these amendments and the additions that we're considering today, which we've had a chance to see in some other laws. So I'd like to appeal to the Minister and the Ministry to speed up the rule-making process because really without the regulations, the law itself means nothing. What's the point of this traffic safety law? Of course, when it was seen that Serbia's budget was not filled with the dynamics that it was envisaged and that the government expected it, then it resorted to increasing existing and introducing new commitments. I wonder - what kind of expert from the government was so clever that, with this precision, it foresees that, for example, for the first ten months of 2010, only on the basis of one item, the budget would be charged by 432 million and 120,000 dinars of fines, of course, in accordance with amendments and additions, how does this law propose? I'm not quite sure that this kind of precision could have been achieved, especially for the reason that the penalties that are being dealt with are moving at certain intervals, let's say, some of the penalties range from 100 to 150 thousand. If you go a little deeper into the essence of this, then you can see and conclude that, in this way, judges are suggested to impose maximum penalties, because only with the maximum penalties provided for here can you get this figure that you gave here in an explanation. If this is how judges are suggested for violations, to impose maximum penalties, then the question of each other and the crucial question – what about the independence of the judiciary? Why is someone in this indirect way trying to interfere with the judges' affairs? I said, you have increased these punishments. I really don't mind that those who drive violently, I don't mind having that violent ride, too, a violation for that, can be replaced by a fine. But this is a matter that has to be seen in a comprehensive way, and I have the impression that you didn't do it. There are those people who keep driving violently. There are people who have money and who think they can pay for everything and maybe that's what's in their favor, but that's just a small number of those who fall under this violent driving regime. There are most of those, say, a man who may not have committed a single offense in his life, late for an important meeting, or, God forbid, he's stuck around and he's a little out of speed, and you're right here excruciating huge punishments. I think the fines should remain, but the reality in which the citizens of Serbia are located again, because 150,000, you will admit, for the citizens of Serbia, is a figure that can only be dreamed of. I don't think with this 150,000 figure you'll be able to achieve what your intention was, and apparently your intention was, I trust you, to fill Serbia's budget. Maybe these penalties should be less for a category of people in some cases. Of course, I repeat again, there are people who are constantly committing these violations, and people like that need to get a driver's license on a permanent basis. This is why the SRS intervened with the amendments in this regard. Next, let's get back to the law, take a walk through these members of the law. In Article 1 of this law, the term "weeks" is used, although I believe, and there the SRS intervened with the amendment, that the term "week" is more reasonable, more comprehensive, because it implies things in itself. So he means seven days, while Sunday is just one of those seven days. Since I work in education, we've had a situation where in similar regulations in the field of education where we're just treating the period, the calendar, all the terms relating to seven days are expressed as a week, not as a week, because it's simple and more practical. That's why I think the government should coordinate the terminology, regardless of which ministries it is. Article 2 The bill itself is contradictory because it extends the number of vehicles subject to the obligation to own a speed limiter. At the same time, pay attention, paragraph 3 of this Article is deleted, and that position 3 provides for the obligation to use the mentioned border guard. So now we have a situation to introduce the obligation that vehicles must have speed limiters, but at the same time remove the obligation to use them. You have to have a speed limit, but you don't have to use it. Indeed, I say, he is in himself contradictory and I think the government should consider and possibly adopt some amendments on this subject. We had something like that. I just cited this example, but I remember, we had something like that in the previous law, let's say, when it came to motorcycle helmets. There was also something similar about these contradictions and illogicalities in this law. Article 3 of this law introduces the small door of the auditor, and yet the reason for the law states that the reduction of the number of police officers required is one of the things to which it tends. This is where you reduce the number of police officers, and this is where the auditor is brought in. I don't see where there's any logic. We have members 333 and 334 who are correcting a technical flaw. In addition to the figures, the word dinars is added, which is fine, although it is understood that the Serbian Ministry of Transport is not the FIFA, the football Federation, so that penalties are pronounced in Swiss francs, but it is clear that they are dinars. When you were already making changes and supplementing this law, you should have seen some real problems that drivers are facing on our roads. First of all, I mean drivers who drive on both domestic and international lines. Let's say, when the driver stops the cop for control, look for a tachograph cartridge, if the driver doesn't show him the tachograph cartridge, he'll be punished, and if he shows him the tachograph cartridge, the policeman doesn't verify it with the seal, and when he goes to another country, he'll be punished there again, but because that cartridge isn't checked. So you should have thought of such things to make it easier for people who are directly involved in traffic. The bill provides for the Government to submit a report to the National Assembly on law enforcement and traffic conditions at least twice a year. But as far as I can remember, it hasn't happened yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u42967	The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u42968	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, adopted in May last year a very necessary, modern and modern law in the area of road safety, which largely regulated the needs of modern traffic development, improved the security aspects of all road users and gave much better results than expected. I remind you that when this law was passed, it was assumed that in the first year of its application, the number of victims would be reduced by 10%, and that the number of accidents was reduced by 32%, which is indeed an extraordinary result. Of course, such an important law, with so many members, of 353 members, certainly could not fully predict all that would come after its application. Today's changes and additions to the Traffic Safety Act on the Roads are not changes that essentially change the very essence and intensity of this law, but of course they are necessary. I would just remind myself, and then in my discussion on behalf of the list of ZES and SPO, whose MP I am, I said that this is the law that really has the least contact with politics and that it was not necessary to use difficult terminology in the adoption of this law, such as that this is police law, that it will not contribute to increasing the security of traffic on the roads, that it will not reduce the number of victims, that there are too many police powers and that a significant part of the opposition has not voted for this law. In doing so, as a national MP, I supported some amendments to the opposition, which primarily concern the expansion of the circle of opportunities for violent driving and the introduction of the principles of traffic confidence. In the case of amendments and additions to the Law, it is certain that the biggest dilemma and spears are being broken over whether the express provisions in Article 330, which provides that certain types of offences are necessarily subject to prison sentences, leave the possibility of being provided for as an alternative solution and a fine instead. In our view, this solution is quite good and elegant, not only because there are small facilities in prison, which 4,775 persons against whom a misdemeanor procedure for certain offences has been initiated should receive unconditional prison sentences, but also because of the fact that this is not an obligation and I think that this is a key argument to defend this position, is not the obligation of a judge to impose fines. In doing so, every argument of the type – here we will, with this change and addition of the law to those involved in the traffic that has a deeper pocket, who are arrogantly acting, who are making serious violations, that in some way they will be looked through their fingers and allow the prison to replace it with a fine, falls into the water. That's because I assume that under all circumstances, and that's also the obligation of the law enforcement authority to appreciate the gravity of the offence committed, and it certainly won't make sense that if in the slow traffic zone or in the neighborhood, where the speed limits are at 30-40 km per hour, and someone drives at 200 km per hour, there's no logic and there shouldn't be a law enforcement authority for such a participant in a car accident to impose a fine instead of a prison sentence. This is also another suggestion to the Ministry and the Government that it may be considered in the future as to violent driving whether only those two conditions under which there is a violent driving are considered, it is a hindrance to a double uninterrupted line and twice in a row going through a red light, is that all this provision needs to regulate. All other changes that are provided for, such as the change to be made, that an improperly stopped or parked vehicle which can interfere with both municipal services and inspection services, and the normal movement of traffic and prevent fire-fighting vehicles, ambulances, etc., if they are illegally parked and stopped, that, in addition to the police and the authorised inspection body, a solution may also be made in electronic form to remove such a vehicle from that place within three minutes. What I'm trying to say and to remind you, on behalf of the list of ZES, to express my satisfaction that to this extent, the number of traffic accidents, the number of deaths and the number of victims has been reduced. In doing so, it is, of course, minor material damage, although not negligible, but what is most important is that it is reduced to a significant extent by the number of victims and injured persons. When we passed the basic Traffic Safety Act on the roads, we pointed out in the debate that maybe investment in traffic security on the roads is the most profitable investment, because one invested dinar is ten times coming back. In EU countries, only material damage stemmed from the fact that a person died in a car accident cost a million euros. Some 1.5% to 1.7% of gross national income per year cost Serbia material damage resulting from car accidents. What do we do with that immaterial damage and the mental pain of a family of faces who died in car accidents? Don’t forget that often in car accidents, families suffer as well. What I would ask the Ministry, not just the ministry, but the professional public, is that with one media campaign that was extraordinary not to stop. We have witnessed the fact that only during the public debate on the Traffic Safety Act on the roads is a significant reduction in the number of victims and accidents. If the human factor, regardless of the cause of the car accident, is dominant, this means that education and the media campaign of that type may be as important as any other measure in the strategy of reducing the number of accidents and their consequences. That is why I will say that until the adoption of this law, Serbia has invested less in road safety even compared to 1990. Secondly, the intensity is to reduce the number of people killed in car accidents by about 50% by 2012, which, in addition to saving a large number of human lives, would mean that Serbia saves about 150m euros annually on this basis, and in six years, it would be about a billion euros. We should all now have developed awareness of what these billions of euros mean, besides saving people's lives, investing in road traffic security and in the strategy of the Serbian government's traffic policy. Therefore, MEPs from the list of ZES will support these good changes to the Road Traffic Safety Act. For the sake of the public, I'm going to say that these changes aren't some kind of shifts that change the good Traffic Safety Act on the Roads.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u42969	Nine minutes of MP time was used. There are no more logs in the electronic system. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Velimir Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u42970	Today we are discussing a law that we have recently discussed and where we have put amendments that need to be changed, that it is inapplicable, that the penalties are quite large and that they are not adapted to our conditions of reception in Serbia. That's what's happened now. He's got a lot of problems. However, we accepted all this on the Committee yesterday in principle, and we feel that the law needs to be improved. We're glad that the number of accidents and deaths has decreased. However, it is necessary to accept some of the amendments that have been made and which are very correct, so that in a few months we do not again have a similar situation for this law to come into the assembly procedure to improve it, and now there is an opportunity through amendments given by political parties and which will be in the second part of the debate. Therefore, I would ask the authorities and the Government to consider amendments that are fully justified and to accept them so as not to put this law back in the procedure in November-October because it would be extremely unserious for one such law to be in the assembly procedure three times in a year. However, I would like to point out one thing. It is true that it has been reduced due to large penalties and large controls that are now applicable, etc. The number of traffic accidents, but also our traffic cannot be safe and cannot be in line with the countries that adapted it because we have an extremely high traffic on certain parts of the highway. For example, on a master's road where traffic safety is impossible to happen if traffic is more than 12,000 cars a day. We have a case at Lazarets where the traffic is 27,000 cars a day. We have traffic on Gazela, which is 160,000 a day, and it's projected on a maximum of 40,000 cars. We have traffic in Cells 17,000 a day. I remember when we did the research, in Prelina 15,000 cars a day. Regardless of the laws, regardless of the penalties, regardless of the controls, to the extremely increased control of the people involved in this, it is impossible for traffic to be safe because it is an extremely high traffic compared to projected traffic on certain road sections. That is why it is necessary to build a highway and, therefore, it was extremely unserious to shut down the concession that had already come to an end and satisfy some of those who asked for it, ultimately set up to support the government and, of course, now go to this variant of building a highway with some tiny few billion from the NIP and some promises that a Turkish company without a tender will do with some free contract when it is projected, etc., that it will do the highway. If it were to work at this pace as foreseen by the means I see planned for this year, it would take more than 20 years to build a highway, for example, Belgrade-Preljina. The question is whether there is a need for that highway because traffic will go away, because that people will move too. Without highways in certain parts of Serbia, there is no life because it is impossible for traffic to take place, it is impossible to circulate traffic with the necessary intensity. Therefore, I would ask that this process of highway construction be speeded up and serious, and all of this that's done with free contracts and shut down public procurement really doesn't make sense because it's unserious. I remember well that the highway tender had 23,000 pages. Dulic recently said the projects were wrong, that he was asking to redesign it. However, as long as it is done it is impossible to sign agreements if there is no project documentation, if it is not done in accordance with the law. It's impossible to go to some free deals. I followed now, it's good to do a bridge on the Danube, it's good to connect Zemun and Krgnac, but it's also inexplicable that the contract started with 370m euros and was removed to 170m euros. Note, the Beška bridge in the Danube is for 56m euros that was on the international tender. So how is that possible? And it's too unserious to bid such figures without project documentation, with nothing and make some agreements. And it's too unserious if one state offers to do something for 370m euros, and that goes down to 170m. This is either a non-serious offer or a performer is unserious, or the project documentation will not be in accordance with the laws and regulations in force. Something's got to be wrong here. It shouldn't have shut down the concession. By concession, the highway would now be over 50% built and built. One story that Minister Dulic tells these days, not knowing the most basic rule of urbanism, that he is crossing to work on the side of New Belgrade highway towards the southern Adriatic and that he will cross the Sava bridge, and that this is a better variant, and criticises the variant that was across the Umka, is inexplicable. If the spatial plan is to take the highway across the Umika, it should be continued. It's true that there's a deep ice rink, but there's a glider, and we have to take care of it anyway because it's impossible for traffic to take place on the current highway. If we set up a complete traffic concept from Belgrade with two lanes towards Obrenovac, where the highway to the southern Adriatic will continue later, we will now go to the New Belgrade variant and do all that again, we will significantly compromise traffic and make traffic more difficult. Take the exit yourself to get on the highway to New Belgrade, to get from the Assembly to New Belgrade to get on the highway, you need more time than the highway to get to Preljina, for example. This is unexplainable, and that is why this variant has fallen off because the professional teams that did so have completely rejected that variant as an unpractical variant. No one has examined whether on this part of the bridge that is going to work on the Danube there are glides, whether traffic will be threatened tomorrow, as is the case with an old bridge in Vienna, where a glider appears and where a pillar slides in the Danube. These tests have not been done, and an agreement has already been written, but has been struck and a cornerstone has been laid. In my opinion, it's too inconclusive, and we need to get far more serious about building these cars in order to have a safe traffic tomorrow. We can't get traffic in order with laws and penalties if we don't maintain roads, if we don't do projects, and if we don't build highways, they don't stand there because of the intensity of traffic. We can work as hard as we want, but let's take the standards of Europe, for a mile of highways and highways, it takes 3,000 euros for one tape a month to maintain the road. We don't even do that, and signalling and everything. I ask the representatives of the Government, and in particular Minister Dacic, to make sure that this issue that has been pushed through the amendments, to define the settlements and to resolve this issue, because otherwise we will have to change it later in the law, because it is necessary now. If you take the Ibar highway, it turns out you're all over the inhabited area. And the same proposal that was made, which is extraordinary, we can't go where the school is marked, and when the school doesn't work at two or three o'clock in the afternoon, stop the traffic and bring it down to 50, for example, on a master's trip, and the school doesn't work at one o'clock p.m., and when you're stopped by a trafficker and a ticket, he's absolutely right, because there's a traffic sign that the school is there. All night traffic is slowed down, and there is no need for that, because these institutions that are defined in the law do not work on certain days, on holidays or on school holidays, especially at night, in nighttimes. Please accept part of the amendment so we don't get into a situation where tomorrow we change this same law, because it would be too funny to do it in one year three times, that the same law comes into congregation procedure. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u42971	With no more reports among the representatives of the parliamentary groups, I give my word to MP Zoran Bortic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u42972	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, respected representatives of the ministry, respected fellow MPs, how important for our country the issue of traffic security is the most brutal reminder of the daily number of traffic accidents on the roads of Serbia, whose annual balances are hundreds of dead and tens of thousands of injured citizens. In the past century, since the development of modern transport infrastructure and means of transport, in the accidents that occurred on its roads, if it is believed by statistical indicators, it has lost as many human lives as it lives in one of its larger cities. The number of injured, injured and permanently disabled persons should not be reported at this time, as this balance may be eroded against the number of deaths without exaggeration. Without any exaggeration, it can be said that there is a kind of war on the roads of this country on a daily basis, the outcome of which is a huge number of human victims, and we are faced with immeasurable material damage. Because of all this, as well as the fact that no country can be considered developed and prosperous, until it develops its own transport infrastructure and until it builds a traffic culture according to the achieved standards in developed societies, we needed a modern traffic safety law that would standardise the behaviour of all participants in this very complex and vital area of state life. This law was meant to establish completely new conditions in traffic and to provide assumptions for the creation of new awareness of all traffic participants, new patterns of cultural behaviour, greater responsibility and solidarity and a number of other elements that will fundamentally change the present reality on our roadways, which, as everyone knows, is more than tragic. Starting with such goals, the current MUP and the Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted a proposal for a new Transport Safety Act to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia last year. The National Assembly passed this law and its provisions began to apply since December 2009. So far, the application of the provisions of this law has shown very good results in this relatively short period of time. Traffic participants respect the legal standards to a much greater extent, resulting in a reduced number of road traffic violations, better vehicle correctness, greater solidarity and a number of other traffic improvements. Statistics also assure us that there is a significant reduction in the number of fatal accidents, that there are fewer injuries, that the material damage that has been caused as a result of car accidents has been reduced. Because of all of this, it is right to say that this law has been passed at the right time and is successfully fulfilling its function in this vital area. With a high dose of certainty, it can be said that the application of this law in the coming period will produce even greater results and that the behaviour of traffic participants in the next period will change completely and contribute to the preservation of human lives and material goods. Starting with such a goal, the proposer of the law of the Ministry of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia analysed how individual legal solutions affect the effectiveness of law enforcement in practice and observed that some of these solutions slowed down or made legal application more difficult and did not contribute to the speedy and energetic resolution of certain concrete issues that arise between traffic participants. In order to remove these narrow throats in the application of the Transport Safety Act, amendments and additions to the Emergency Procedure Act, which we are discussing today, have been proposed. These amendments and additions are proposed with the intention to ensure consistent compliance with the rules, greater safety of traffic participants, as well as compliance with relevant international rules adopted in the meantime. In addition, the proposed amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act will ensure better precision of the procedure, more effective application of the law on the one hand, as well as a reduction of the number of police officers that ensure the enforcement of the law and its application in practice, on the other. For these reasons, it can be understood that the proposal to propose to the National Assembly to amend and supplement this law by an urgent procedure, as there are objective arguments that failure to adopt these amendments and additions would have adverse consequences for the work of the national authorities, as well as for the security of traffic in general. It is also clear that by adopting new legal solutions, the Transport Safety Act will, to a large extent, contribute to greater traffic security and that all our citizens will respect traffic regulations to a much greater extent. For all things, the SPS-JS parliamentary group supports the proposed amendments and amendments to the law, and in the voting day we will vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u42973	The word has a folk MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u42974	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SNS in the time ahead of the SNS parliamentary group, I will try to explain the arguments why we have submitted part of the amendment to Mr Velimir Ilic's proposal for amendments to the Law on Road Safety and Supplements, and to point out the story of Mr Velimir Ilic to take advantage of the opportunity to accept all the well-intentioned and primarily amendments that are in line with the European legislation. In the context of this, it will also be my address, so I would ask you to transfer the representatives of the Ministry to the first Deputy Prime Minister of this argument, primarily those in line with European legislation. I have to agree with the fact that the existing Law on the Safety of Traffic on Roads in Matter of More than 360 members was really needed, that it was quite good, but that such extensive matter should be regulated in more detail. When this law was passed last year, well-intentioned amendments to all representatives of political parties in the Assembly should also be taken into account. Because the fact that after a year the government comes out with its amendments to its bill itself says that now all amendments related to such an important law should be accepted, that it will not be re-emerged in six months, because in the summer period it is necessary to amend this law, so that neither during the winter period nor all these conditions of traffic security on the roads go into a situation of changing the law. What is it that I want to point out primarily? It is that the members of the 17th and 18th existing Law on traffic security are prescribed on the roads to distribute fines in an appropriate percentage between the Republic of Serbia's budget and the budget of the local self-government whose territory has been committed, and that Article 18 primarily reflects these funds. Monetary penalties are classical budget revenues and they cannot be shared in advance by individual legal acts in this manner, as provided for by the Road Safety Act. Article 92 The Constitution stipulates that all revenue and expenditure financed by competences must be shown in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and the Law on the Budgetary System, Article 19, says that fines are public revenue belonging to the budget and thus are eliminated from this redistribution in the applicable Transport Safety Act on Roads in Articles 17 and 18. In view of this, we have proposed certain amendments to the amendments to these members of the existing law. Such solutions, where the funds for police work depend on the number and weight of applications filed and resolved by the same police, are not known in parallel law, not in any case in European countries. We are constantly seeking to join the EU, and with this regulation we are going in the opposite direction. At the same time, the police act is in conflict of interest. I mean traffic police, because it can't challenge the impartiality of law enforcement police in this way, as it is regulated by members 17 and 18, because it would violate its reputation, both with citizens and with judicial authorities who should act on the citizens' or traffic police reports. If such a solution is left in law, one reasonable question is asked – why should this principle not apply in some other areas of public life? For example, fines for crimes against life and bodies are granted to criminal police, penalties for work in the field of labour inspection, i.e. penalties for endangering the environment of the Ministry of Environment and numerous similar examples. Of course, in all cases, it is not disputed that local self-government from these offences is a proportional percentage, given the situation where the act is done. It is amazing that members of the 17th and 18th police are privileged by other authorities of the state administration. At the same time, the distribution of funds that are collected in this way, i.e. Articles 17 and 18, is not defined, because financing traffic safety improvements is a very large, broad and undefined concept, so it leaves the possibility for users of the funds to make it arbitrary, especially at local level. You now have the situation that because of the situation in which local self-government has been brought in over the past year, which is because of the halved transfer by the Republic of Serbia's budget to local self-government, you have one paradox, let's say, that the presidents of the municipalities can influence local traffic police to record as many traffic violations as possible, for the simple reason that as many local self-government budgets as possible are being collected. With all these arguments and arguments it is really necessary to delete the proposed Article 18 of the Law. I say, better now in time, when they're changed and complemented, than later in some of the possible changes and additions. Next, Article 2. The proposal really has to change. I will provide you or Mr. First Vice-President of the Government with copies of European legislation, indeed in English, and since the Government and its representatives are always praised for the European regulations and laws in this context, I will provide you with in English comments on the proposal for Articles 2 and 92/6 of 10 February 1992 and what they mean and in what way you have truly understood in the proposal of Article 2 of the Change and Supplement of the Road Safety Act. You did respect one part of this proposal, but everything else that Directive 92/6 in further discussion has not been taken into account for a moment. This Directive prescribes that speed limiters must have all cargo vehicles weighing more than three and a half thousand kilograms and all buses. Article 1 of the Directive provides that this obligation applies only to buses weighing more than 10 tonnes and freight vehicles weighing more than 12 tonnes, i.e. vehicles M3 and N3 of the category laid down by Directive 70/166. The proposed amendment is in line with the existing amendment and supplementation proposal with Directive 92/6. The proposed amendment also provides for deadlines and a procedure to comply with this law, because what would happen otherwise – tens of thousands of vehicles should be excluded from traffic after the law enters into force, within eight days of the day of publication. The application of this provision to already registered vehicles would have a feedback, which is contrary to Article 197. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Directive 92/6 in Article 3(2) provides for the possibility to further limit the speed of vehicles transporting dangerous substances, whereas Article 6 provides for exceptions, as proposed by the amendment submitted by the SNS parliamentary group. It is not necessary to specifically explain why the installation of expensive devices in urban transport vehicles and, for example, vehicles of municipal services and vehicles of the Serbian Army and their maintenance is an unnecessary cost. If this is an unnecessary cost for very wealthy EU countries, then Serbia really needs to see an even greater cost. The proposal that devices must be installed in all buses and all cargo vehicles, in particular in a manner prescribed by the disputed Article 2. The bill, it's really very problematic. It automatically results that law writers have not finished reading European traffic safety regulations and all traffic. It is possible that this is not the case, it may be another robbery by Serbian citizens, as over a few hundred thousand car owners must install this device even though the directive does not apply to those categories of vehicles. And of course there will be privileged individuals whose companies will be exclusively authorised to import, install and maintain these devices. The interpretation of the bill in no context and at no time contains an assessment of the costs which is otherwise required under European legislation, which the citizens of Serbia will have, and I hope you have understood from the proposed proposal, and also that the citizens of Serbia are indeed very high costs and a very large number of vehicles which, I say, the directive really does not need to be in this category of vehicle that you have provided for by the controversial member of the bill. What is the paper of the law that is still controversial and controversial from the aspects of traffic security especially? It is a member of 77, which speaks of the fact that during daytime traffic, short, or daylight lights must be included on all vehicles. We say, this is an opportunity for all well-intentioned proposals with this bill of amendments and additions to the Transport Safety Act to be adopted. We suggest that daylights can only be included on vehicles with passing championships when they are in intervention, which is emergency aid, police, firefighters, and motorcycles and bikes with motorcycles. I'll give you arguments that were made a lot a year ago, but once again, to remind you of a part of them more importantly, which is that driving with lights on during the day interferes with the drivers of the coming vehicles in an uninterrupted observation of the overall traffic situation on the way. This can also be said for distracting drivers who come behind you, it is with the lights behind you, and in principle or not well adjusted and automatically disturb both the driver's vision and influence the driver's concentration. I must point out that vehicles with light on according to perfectly normal situations have increased fuel consumption, which has both economic and environmental effects. According to officially published data in the MUP, the total damage in traffic accidents last year is about 2.7 billion dinars. On the other hand, if these aspects of increased fuel consumption are taken, the damage, but this time at the expense of Serbian citizens, is triple the amount of over 10 billion dinars. It should be recalled that this would be contrary to the efforts to reduce fuel consumption, which the government is involved in, as it has almost formed a special task force with this task. Not to mention, when using day-to-day lights, it reduces the battery use deadline, increases the consumption of light bulbs and environmental effects that are quite obvious due to increased consumption of consumer material, and harmful gases, and heating and light bulbs and an increasing battery deadline. This problem is evident in populated areas, particularly related and expressed in the city of Belgrade. The obvious problem is that this has a particular impact on the safety of motorcyclists, who, according to the old bill of law, had an obligation, i.e. bicycles with a motorcycle, to have daylight lights on during the day. This proposal, i.e. the existing law, also places motorcyclists in the category of all traffic participants, and practically cannot distinguish themselves because of this Article 77th existing law from all other traffic participants. By prescribing that only vehicles on intervention and motorcycles can have light on during the day, it is possible to automatically detect those vehicles and thus ensure that traffic is easier and safer on the roads. The ban on the use of lights during the day would also have additional positive effects on safety, as in current practice light is seen to be used mainly by uncertain or aggressive drivers, which give some false sense of safety and security on the road, but also automatically reduces the caution during driving. In view of this situation and of what I've been saying and the amendments to the SNS, I have to make an example of, say, Great Britain, where the number of victims is 11 times smaller than in Serbia, where lights are not used during the day. In addition, there are no such legal frameworks in most European countries with fewer accidents and good road safety and good infrastructure. What remains particularly unregulated, which are the following objections to the existing Road Safety Act, which the law did not take into account, the implementation of municipal activities. This prevents municipal services from doing their jobs, such as cleaning snow in yellow tape. The problem of stopping on the sidewalk of the legislator was not taken into account and this problem mainly concerns loading and unloading of goods. Probably, given the modernisation of laws and regulations, the loading and unloading of goods is expected to be carried out in Belgrade, for example, by helicopter traffic. Indeed, regarding the existing law, there is no legal regulation that the distribution of goods to retail facilities by distributors, wholesalers, producers are doing as currently provided for by the existing Road Safety Act. What's the matter? The situation with regard to technical examinations, i.e. the inability to register transporters for the performance of this activity, remained controversial. A whole system of large enterprises, including the GSP of Belgrade, Lasta and other large carriers, must open up some new companies fictitiously, as the existing Transport Safety Act prevents them from being both carriers and having registered technical checks, and we also know about the quality and practical brand of the mentioned companies in this area. The jurisdiction of criminal policy, especially for the owners of the firm who are in a position to take all the necessary measures, the penalties remain, regardless of the situation that drivers are being taken and trained, and education and all possible instructions, this part of the criminal policy is not covered by the amendment and the addition of the law, but there are indeed great penalties left, and we have a situation for very serious traffic violations in this law, which we will especially talk about when it comes to amendments, this law provides for the possibility of monetary violations instead of prison sentences. The specific area of health checks is to determine the mental health of drivers who deliberately commit the most serious traffic violations and drive under the influence of alcohol. In many countries, this system of health checks has proved to be a prevention and good regulation to prevent the most severe traffic and accidents. Infringements for which the driver is proposed to be sent to the checkup are completely alcohol-free driving, the maximum overruns of the permitted speeds regulated by Article 187 of the existing law and Article 330, and mainly relate to the permitted percentage of alcohol, i.e. the unauthorized percentage of alcohol in the driver’s blood, as well as to the fact that the speeds of more than 70 km are higher than those allowed, on the road outside the settlements of more than 80 km and in the 30 and in the school zones are more than 60 km away, higher than permitted, or in a situation where they do not operate motor vehicles for which they have a driver’s licence. Vehicles where they are located in the highest speed overrun from the mentioned Article 330 of the Law have, in all studies, a kinetic energy which is three times or even 36 times higher than vehicles moving at the speed allowed, a proportional increase in kinetic energy is also increasing the way of stopping, the possibility of accidents and, normally, that the consequences of accidents are far greater. Major excesses in speed practice suggest that usually they are not the consequences of negligence but represent a deliberate and conscious threat to their own and other safety, so that a fundamental question of the mental health of such drivers is raised. Practice has shown that this kind of driver continues to commit these crimes, regardless of the criminal charges and penalties filed, even after previous accidents. I have to mention a major accident that took place ten years ago in Belgrade in the Terrace tunnel when one driver was driving at a speed of 140 km per hour. The prescribed speed is 50 km per hour. Otherwise, over a very short period of time, 14 violations have been filed. What are the consequences of an accident? Three people were killed, and many were seriously injured, and according to the knowledge that we have mentioned, the driver did not respond until today, or was not processed for this work. Why am I saying this? For the reason that the introduction of a review of the most severe offenders and returnees in many countries has produced excellent results, and given this area, we have also submitted an amendment and it is necessary that both to practice and to the situations that are happening in us and in the world and to the legal regulations of other countries, this amendment and to adopt. Then we suggested to be a member of the 7th. The proposal is deleted for the reason that the question of the release of the perpetrators of the offence of liability in cases of extreme urgency has already been arranged by Article 14. The law of violations. So it's disputed that only this law has regulated this area, when it's already regulated by the Law of Infractions. What if all other legal regulations and all other laws in this way, in addition to existing and existing laws, regulated the question of the release of perpetrators of offences. A lot of media commentary these days, from Friday night when a proposal on amendments to the Law on Road Safety was sent to the assembly procedure, Article 10. We suggest that it be deleted for reasons heard these days in both the media and by some other experts in this area, not just experts who are at the Ministry of the Interior. (President: Time, Mr. Rogovic. I thank you. I'll end up in the next part.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u42975	Your MP group no longer has time for this point. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word, for Srdjan Milivojević is not there.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u42976	Dear Presidents, representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, as my colleagues said a year ago, we were in this National Assembly leading, in my opinion, one of the most qualitative discussions in this Parliament's session concerning this bill of traffic security law. The debate was given its quality precisely in the fact that a large number of amendments submitted by representatives of all political parties pointed out to the extent that everyone sitting here in the National Assembly is seriously dealing with this problem and how much editing this issue concerns all citizens. After a year, we face first changes and additions to this law. As we said at the time that following an anachronous law that was then in force it was necessary to pass a new law, we are now talking here and we believe it was necessary to approach much wider and much deeper amendments to the applicable Transport Safety Act. At that time, the opposition submitted about 70 amendments, our parliamentary group a large number and the DSS amendments were accepted, there were some 16-17 amendments, although a large number of amendments were essential and were to contribute to raising quality and better solutions in this bill. What we were saying at the time, we believe that it was an opportunity to remove itself as one of the problems. It was not disputed to consider tightening the criminal policy in the area of traffic security, but it was disputed that the law had stopped only to tighten the criminal policy, and the part related to improving driver education, working with drivers, raising the quality of auto-schools, tests and all that could contribute to raising the quality of driving, and thus traffic safety, was unacceptable for government representatives. Now, in the opening statement of the Minister of the Interior, we hear statistics showing that the number of traffic accidents has been reduced, but we can give one assessment that it has been reduced solely because of the fear that in the first year of the law's validity has been caused by a stricter criminal policy, i.e. The repression that defined certain violations of this law. The key question is, if it is not for passengers to improve the quality of driving, their education, how long in the future that fear will be kept by drivers and how good this statistics will be a lasting mark of road conditions and even in traffic security. We are deeply convinced that it will not be, because it is not only fear-solving enough, that everyone who deals with deeper law, whether a norm is applied or not, but it is important that this norm be part of the consciousness of one who should apply it. At the time there were criticisms and they influenced the discussion and the reasons why amendments were rejected, I would like to say that last year this law was defended by the Minister of Infrastructure, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, and now it is Minister Dacic and it is different to see the angle from which we are being observed and these solutions that I am going to say more about. In the debate itself, there was a difference between the traffic-related profession and the MUP that has a different dimension, the police dimension of the traffic security perspective. At the end of the line, a large number of MPs said this was police law and that a large number of responsibilities were placed in the area of the MUP. Some of the things that we presented at the time as problematic, which proved to be in practice, were not removed. One of the most important is that responsibility for the violation of the law, for the cause of the accident, is mainly to the driver. That everyone who deals with court practice knows that this is a huge problem and that proof in a procedure that is conducted by certain acts that are caused by the violation of this law to the greatest extent is the driver's problem, which is not true. Other elements that can affect that circumstance are excluded. We pointed out that the law had to be braver in this sense and that a kind of trust – we used that term here, introduced into the law. We were talking about auto-schools that, in addition to the fact of licensing, it was necessary for teachers to still be persons with a traffic college, not to be so broadly set up, because this is a very specific and very narrow area regarding the security of all citizens. We were saying that this training of lecturers and licensing is carried out by the agency, not that this whole jurisdiction is relocated to the Ministry of the Interior, because we felt that one body like the agency could have the capacity for this important job. As I said, it was necessary to make much deeper changes, but in this part I will stop at a few questions that are raised about these changes that are not generally controversial but can again, as a large number of norms of this law have shown, lead to problems in application. This solution provided for in the amendments and additions relating to the adoption of solutions in electronic form due to improper parking is in principle not a bad solution, but there is one question that points out in a way that the general government looks at the overall integrity of the legal system and at all the acts that are being taken. I would like to remind you that following this law in this National Assembly, the Law on the Communist Police has been passed, which in its provisions concerning the affairs of the municipal police, among other things, defines that the municipal police are engaged in maintaining the municipal order, including parking. Now the question arises – in cities where municipal police are formed, who will deal with parking operations if it is defined here that a police officer issues a solution in electronic form and effectively punishes a person who is illegally parked? Is that going to be done by a police officer or is it going to be done by a representative of the municipal police? We can now enter a chain of circuits and say – The Transport Safety Act was passed before the Law on the Communist Police, so since the Law on the Communist Police was passed after, then by legal interpretation, the "lex posterior derogat Priory" will be a municipal officer, but now a new law has been passed after that law, so it will be a police officer, so he will be in charge. I think the government had to make sure that the Law on the Communist Police entered into force, not to cause complete legal chaos and chaos in the area of jurisdiction in cities. We are now monitoring that the training of municipal police officers is under way, and when the communal police officer and police officer come in and they see illegal parking, and one and the other can pull the laws out and say, "I am in charge of solving this matter." So the big problem, and it would have to be defined differently by this jurisdiction, respecting the fact that it was passed by the Law on the Communist Police. In addition, the Law on municipal police defined the following – municipal police officers are being supervised in public, suburban, urban and other local traffic. What is local traffic and how this surveillance will be achieved, especially in light of this law, we did not get an answer to that question. Simply, look at the law, look at jurisdiction and do everything to avoid conflict of jurisdiction on the ground, not to argue with people who both have uniforms, because they will be in the interest of each other to show within their private norms that they have issued a solution and punished him for improper parking. As far as this section is concerned, not to initiate criminal proceedings in the event that someone who has effectively violated this law has acted in order to protect security or to protect and save lives and the health of people and property, it is a good norm and it cannot be challenged. But, left like this, it can create serious abuses and serious problems. This norm definitely has to be defined in some way. Because, left like this, it can allow people who appreciate whether there are such circumstances, and in all state bodies there are persons who are prone to corruption, to let someone go, even though he cannot fall under such a defined provision that it was an offence in order to protect safety or protect life, health and property. We've heard examples here that taxi drivers are transporting someone, so whoever guarantees that someone doesn't report that it was actually done in order to save someone's life and lead them to an emergency, and in fact, someone may have committed a criminal act of corruption, or because of some personal relationship, they let someone go that even though they committed a crime, they wouldn't be sanctioned. So the Ministry of the Interior would have to make this standard more precise and precise as to what are the specific situations. I know that general norms are used because the number of such situations in life is high, but wherever there is a possibility and doubt that the legislation can be misused, the norm should be specified. This question that now referred to the possibility of replacing a prison sentence with a fine is something that has actually caused the greatest controversy and the largest number of discussions here. I would like to say that it is absolutely unacceptable to hear from the government's representatives the argument that the prison sentence, which has been inaugurated here in the adoption of this law, has been spoken of as the greatest effect of the preventive policy of this law, is now saying that it is not possible to apply it because we do not have enough prisons because they are small. We listen, it's just a general story, always the police say there's not enough jail time, but now we hear it's estimated after a year that the prison sentence can't be effectively realised because so many of the violations that have been committed, which fall under this sanction, that it can't survive like this. We were saying then that she shouldn't be introduced. It was enough to threaten a high fine, and she has a preventive fact and she would have it now. I can't agree that this number of misdemeanors or crimes committed in the area of traffic is just because someone got scared of prison sentences, but if we were to say that these are too many sanctions, now such a solution can lead to major problems in its application. The question arises – will these sanctions also be realised in persons who are unable to pay this fine? Will it then be assessed on the basis of the appearance, based on the material condition, whether a prison sentence or a fine will be imposed on someone? Second, persons who are well-being, who have money, can commit crimes without fear of doing them, because they will be able to pay tribute to their haughtiness. This is mostly about the works that are on the edge of a violent drive, to say – well, to pay 100,000, I have no problem, I can drive like that. I can do those things and I can pay. The people who can't do it, they're gonna rot in jail. It was not taken into account either the material situation, nor the fact that the prison sentence was imposed was not taken into account when it was introduced. Citizens must put themselves in an equal position. We heard here during the Minister's statement that he said that the problem is to continue to apply this standard and that we will continue to apply it. I don't think this standard is applied by the government, but by the courts. It was necessary to hear the opinion of the courts in which such an alternative sanction would be created or applied in perspective. What is the ultimate effect of such alternative sanctions? Or prison or money. It's very problematic from the point of view of effective application. We hear the Prime Minister that it will contribute to budgeting. And even then, a year ago, we listened to how the aim of this law was to, among other things, be full of the budget by charging sanctions. Well, it's not the basic meaning of the law that needs to define and increase security and protection, in the extreme line, human lives. These are some dilemmas that the ministry's representatives, at the end of the line, should account for when it comes to the application of this law. At the end of my presentation, I would like to point out once again, it would be important in addition to this repressive dimension that, in this case, the determination of a prison sentence did not prove to be a solution, at the very end of the line, if you had respected our suggestions a year ago, this situation would not have occurred. Now you will see, in this application, it will be even worse, and to approach a deeper change in the bill's proposal and that the dimension, relating to education, to raising awareness of the importance of safe driving with drivers, education in the domain of drivers themselves and their participation in traffic, accept those amendments or these amendments are now being incorporated into the new bill and, in the long run, such good statistics become a permanent state, not that it ceases at some point when fear stops with drivers themselves. That fear will stop if, and I believe the Ministry's representatives are working on it, if, God forbid, corruption spreads. There is no fear if corruption spreads because there is no sanctions, if corruption is curbed to a much greater extent there will be more sanctions, there will be more sentencing and there will be, in any case, more effective law enforcement.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u42977	Seventeen minutes used by the MPs' group. The word has been given by MP Petar Jojic, followed by MP Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u42978	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, the Serbian Radical Party estimates that in the creation of a basic Transport Safety Act, in the first place, it was meant to participate and to be written by, above all, by experts from the MUP exclusively, by people with long-standing operational experience in writing this law. I believe there was an involvement in the preparation of this bill, but I have learned that the other ministry had its own author, who seems to have played a decisive role in this law. I would never agree with that if I were the Home Secretary. I'd like to ask, Madam President, come on, call the minister, because I have some important questions for him that we may be able to clarify some things in the course of the dialogue. It's not worth it without him. As for Article 156, which is amended and proposed Article 3, I think it is easy to leave this, the ministry's gentlemen, the other minister, to decide when it comes to the regulation which by the nature of the business should fall within the competence of the MUP, because the MUP is an operational body and whose jobs can be evaluated and more effective 100 times, but whether it is written by one or some environmental minister or for infrastructure, and has not had a single day of employment, nor has he been operationally covering any terrain in the state of Serbia. As far as article six is concerned, there's a very discriminatory question here. If we find a vehicle that's illegally parked, what happens? A solution shall be made if there is no vehicle owner, the vehicle remover shall be notified, and in electronic form the driver shall be informed that the vehicle will be removed on the basis of that solution. Now look what's controversial. In practice, it's very, very risky. To what visible place should the solution be highlighted? Is it on the lamppost, whether it's on the top, whether it's on the acacia, whether it's on the window or on the wiper or on the table? This can also be very controversial in practice. This will not be able to be very detailed in practice as well as how it was imagined to be applied. As for Article 7, he's well-regulated this area, but I'm going to ask you, gentlemen of the MUP, that he may give up the request to initiate a misdemeanor procedure when it comes to human health. Please, Mr. Transport Elder at the MUP, to take a step forward in this direction, to issue instructions to police stations on the ground, that in front of all health institutions in the Republic of Serbia where citizens come for sickness and health, a spider, often abused by local authorities, should be abolished. Agree this with local authorities, that local authorities no longer yell at citizens and do not punish them, especially when it comes to a serious illness and a citizen who has brought his father, mother or his child or his loved one to a health care facility, that he returns from a health care facility and has no vehicles. That local administration wasn't building those sidewalks right now. That's what people used to build. Don't patients deserve that attention when they come to the hospital so they can park their vehicle, put their patient in the hospital and visit him. I'd like to ask you a specific example in Panchev. I have already proposed an extra order for tomorrow's session of the Panchev City Assembly to cancel parking payment in front of health institutions. Agree with local self-government, and for me you are decisive and appropriate to order police stations and not listen to local self-government when it comes to human health. In that direction, there's a positive example we can't get around. The government has brought in one regulation that is punitive, harmful to citizens, and has raised high prices for carrying out improperly parked vehicles, doubled them, but you see, there was a man, the mayor, who said... Here's this time, don't count on me, please... There was a man who said, I don't want to respect the government's rules, Gilas said 50% off the prices. Please, everything that is effective for the citizens in any case has been assessed and it has opposed the government's decision or regulation. The minister provided statistical data, so I'm sorry here, because he's given some data in part. That data he provided was partially reported, but it remained unarranged when it came to traffic police. It's just part of a job run by the traffic police. There's not a word about the traffic police doing a number of other jobs, first of all revealing and lighting up criminal acts on the ground, catching perpetrators of criminal acts, catching faces on warrants, participating in numerous disclosures of illicit drug and arms trafficking, which are, gentlemen from the Ministry, huge jobs happening on the ground, but they're not being recorded anywhere, and you're not showing it in your reports, or today, the minister had to show that the traffic police didn't stop and not only figure out on the street. Road conditions; investors and performers have been using for the last ten years a maneuvering space for major robbery, major crime and corruption to take place in road investments. I will remind you, and for that I have thousands of witnesses, and you can take data from the Directorate for the construction of the roads of the Republic of Serbia, that from 1999 to today the Pančeva road from Krnjaca, i.e. Bridges on the Danube, to Pancheva seven times dug and changed and reconstructed. What kind of contractors were they? Who controlled them? Who was the supervisory authority? How much does it cost once, for the second time, for the third time, to the seventh time? Gentlemen, I believe you traveled from Belgrade to Novi Sad, between India and Banstol, in 1936 that part of the road was made. You'll see that the concrete part of the road is still in use today, and we have some criminals who have been entrusted with reconstructing and performing the works, the project is scheduled to be reduced to six meters. There's no 20 feet. Where's the money from those two meters to, say, 15, 20 kilometers? How big is the tampon? What's a tampon made of? What type and quality of material has been used for asphalting and changing? Now go to Panchev, you'll get a chance to see five layers of different colors. What's this about? That's why the police would have to take matters into their own hands to carry out the audit. Who has allowed this to go seven times through the road and change, has been building for the last seven years back from Panchev to Belgrade. Mr. Minister, it's nice to meet you. Just to remind you, Mr. Minister, you, in your address in the Assembly, have partially carried out the tasks performed by the traffic police, I have informed the audience, but a large number of jobs are being done by the police, i.e. discovers, sheds light on crimes and numerous violations, illicit trafficking in drugs and weapons, catches faces on arrest warrants, etc. So, a large number of jobs the police are doing, but it's not highlighted in your presentation. To avoid any damage to the traffic police, given that there is some experience and that I have knowledge directly from the operation, please value it to the members of the traffic police. Mr. Minister, there's a major crime in the travel industry. There's a lot of fire and fire. Take the price of a mile of road being built and built in earlier years, you'll see that something was paid five times instead of once. When it comes to regional roads, it is left to local self-government, but police would also have to cooperate operationally and take appropriate measures with judicial authorities, and to file criminal and criminal charges where certain people, managers and those who answer to travel, i.e. roads must be reconstructed and repaired, impact holes. That's what citizens pay for in the insurance and other taxes they give. That's why it's up to the police to keep this in mind despite all the other jobs and this in mind, and to potentiate and thus finally deal with those people who are irresponsible. Mr. Minister, help the country! Why are the police going naked and barefoot? Why is the budget of the Republic of Serbia not aimed at improving the material position of members of the internal affairs bodies, each of which is required by the minister and member of the government to arrest, chase, prevent etc.? Please see when the last uniform is received and the equipment in individual police stations and police. Why do people go to waste? That wasn't 50 years ago in the police force, then it was a national militia. Mr. Minister, I think you have information and that you know how many persons are being monitored in the Republic of Serbia today, which the person is being monitored and provided and on what legal basis, under which degree the person is being monitored, provided and on what legal basis. How many participants in the security of that person participate daily, weekly and monthly, which technique was used to provide individual persons. How much does taxpayers cost our citizens? Secondly, can any plan and level of security be revealed to anyone in this country? Is that a secret? Why would she be a secret? I was in the Republic and federal government, so I didn't let anyone provide me. He's just been sent to keep the minister safe, who was sent by the citizens. Now let's give him a squad of police. One day, Mr. Minister, remember, it may be understood as a joke, but one day it will also ask you to follow the militia orchestra if you allow it. What she asked for, Mr. Minister, the SRS, please, you're a serious man and you're responsible, but the SRS is not satisfied that you SRS didn't provide the information she requested regarding certain security. You deny it to the SRS and the MPs of the SRS. So it shouldn't be a secret to anyone, because we have every right to do so. (President: National MP, please, Article 107) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly - an MP is obliged to speak of the agenda. You know what, this is security. I have the honour that today is security and the only ministry that has come to the Assembly in full, and that should always be in mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u42979	People's MP, the subject of our work is to amend and supplement the Traffic Safety Act. Two minutes out of 15 you devoted the subject of the agenda. I ask you not to violate the Rules of Procedure further, with full understanding of the argument, but the fact that you are currently in the Interior Minister's office and his associates does not give you the right to violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and to consider, under the security of traffic, local self-government, and the security of the person and everything regarding the police. Please, Article 107.)
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u42980	Madam President, it's all in the post of security, from the locals to you as president of the assembly at the moment. It's about each man individually. (President: People's MP, when changes and additions to the Police Act are on the agenda, then you will have a broader topic to consider security. Now the theme of our work is to amend and supplement the Traffic Safety Act. I warn you because you are really forcing me to give you measures to which I am obliged if the MP violates Article 107.) May I continue? (President: In respect of article 107, you are talking about the subject of the agenda. - Of course. What I should have said, and I still have to add, it's about legal regulation when it comes to traffic security. Lack in the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia. What's wrong with that? You have criminal offences against public traffic security. The threat of public traffic is normised and foreseen in Article 289, and when it comes to this matter only two members are regulated in the Criminal Code, which is one serious matter – traffic security. In order to achieve adequate, Madam President, traffic safety, so don't mind me saying that these people who work on traffic security jobs work day and night and that they should have salaries and uniforms, and that if we provide them with salaries and uniforms and equipment, there will be no corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u42981	Sixteen minutes of the Parliament's time spent. The People's Messenger Mirko Munjic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u42982	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the Ministry, here is a little over six months after the application of the Traffic Safety Act we have the opportunity to discuss amendments and additions to this law. As you yourself say in the reasons for the adoption, i.e. the draft law amending and supplementing the Transport Safety Act, that practice has shown that such changes and additions are necessary, in view of consistent or consistent compliance with the rules, under one, two, for the greater safety of all traffic participants, and three, in order to agree with relevant international documents, which are, in the meantime, so to bring. The greater security of the participants is directly dependent on consistent compliance with the rules and indeed no one is slow. On the other hand, Mr. Minister, I really don't want to suspect at any point the good intentions of your ministry, for the good intentions of all the people who sit here today next to you and the others who took part in making this, both the basic law and this proposal on amendments to this law. So, to make our roads safer, to keep all traffic participants better protected on the roads and to keep as few traffic accidents as possible and those really creepy images that we have every day the opportunity to see, both in the printed and electronic media. That's what every normal man wants at this point, and that's what I'm saying is that at this point, it's really not a question that someone should be slowed down, whether he's a position or opposition. However, in both the basic Transport Safety Act and these amendments and the additions that you have proposed today and what are the subject of today's agenda, there are some things that are really not real, some things that are not suitable for our everyday lives, which are not suitable for our practice, some things that are not suitable for today's life. Indeed, sir, Minister, that on a very serious subject like this, I should say, I assume that all of you in the ministry, like you, Mr. Minister, know about the saying that says - all of you who know something should immediately report to the police. I'm sure all your associates and you, who have participated in the drafting of this law, have really used a lot of time, a lot of attention and probably a lot of expertise in making this law, both basic and these changes and additions. However, there is the impression that in some segments of these changes and additions, as we are now talking about them, there is a certain conflict with reality. Here, let me use an example that I'm going to be around for a little while longer. In Article 330(1), it was provided that cases below which were taxed may be sentenced to 15 days and 14 penalty points. However, it is now predicted that an alternative new fine is envisioned for a fine of between 100,000 and 120,000 dinars. I would like you, Mr. Minister, to explain one thing to us - one thing, whether it was concluded that from the position of traffic security, the security of all traffic participants, these measures are not adequate. He is talking about these two measures - the punishment of prison and the alternative punishment, i.e. the cumulative punishment of 14 points? Whether these two measures are common are not adequate in relation to these offences which seem to be and which are taxingly listed. Furthermore, will the newly prescribed fines from 100,000 to 120,000 dinars have a greater impact on the psyche or on the psychology of traffickers to refrain from possible future conduct of such a type of offence? Whether participants in traffic will apply this measure from 100,000 to 120,000 simply realize that they no longer need to commit such violations. Or is it perhaps a third situation which, I think, most of all marks this government, which is insufficiently filling the budget, or may be cumulatively met all three of these conditions in one common, let me say, fourth condition, all three: the inadequacy of regulations or prescribed measures, a stronger psychological fact for participants in traffic and better budget filling? I'd like to hear the answer to the question – what's really appropriate about these three things here? Mr. Minister, I've traveled hundreds of thousands of miles as an active traffic participant, as a driver. I'm sure you've been traveling a lot, either as a driver or as a passenger, maybe more like a passenger lately, but I suppose you've been involved in a lot of traffic and as a driver, I'm well-known security on our roads. Every day I have the opportunity to see for myself the many things that are a violation of traffic regulations and it is quite clear to me another situation, that it is very difficult to make a ratio between a general law on better security and the material-financial situation in which our citizens are located. However, in this fundamental law, and especially in these amendments and additions to this law, I think there is one complete disproportion between these two things – between the requirements for better security and the material-financial situation of our people. Mr. Minister, I think that as vice-president of the government, you should suggest a little bit to some of our ministers and at all some of our government's men to aerate a little, to come down a little bit, to descend a little among the ordinary world, to descend among ordinary people, to see how hard it is to live there, to see what it means when someone today doesn't give their child for basic purposes, to give him a minimum of existential conditions, etc. There is a strong desire in the government to establish some Western standards everywhere and in every place. I ask you, Mr. Minister, is the same punishment, is it adequate punishment for those who have two-and-a-half thousand euros in wages and will be fined a thousand euros in fines and will be fined 120,000 dinars, who needs six salaries to settle a fine? Secondly, have you considered another situation – who will be able to afford the privilege of paying the fine from 100,000 to 120,000 dinars compared to all traffic participants, to all drivers? It's going to be a very small number compared to the total number of drivers, one very small number, let's say, of dad's sons who will be able to replace jail time for a fine of 100,000 or 120,000 dinars. So they'll be able to buy the prison sentence. And the others? What about the others, what about them? They will continue to fill ours, as you say, which will probably be overbooked, shut down. We are for strict respect of the law. Normally, we are for the application of strict penalties, especially for these and such serious offences, such as, for example, everyday it is seen, boastful driving, violent driving, crossing over two full lines, and when a column of vehicles is being crossed, etc., and all that you have counted in this Article 330, indeed we from the SRS are normally for very strict penalties in these situations. However, we believe that these penalties should be appropriate to our real situation. In fact, more participants will be able to "repent their sins for the kind of offense they have committed, so it will probably be more appropriate for that kind of punishment to affect the psyche or psychology of that participant in traffic that he no longer commits such acts, and in the end, the state will also be more satisfied with the aspect of budgeting, because it's also normal for that item that needs to be considered in this situation. There's something else I'd like to say about this, which is that there are a lot of people who are boasting about our roads. I say I meet this kind of driver every day. However, in addition to driving boastfulness, there are people who are boastful and in ordinary life, and I suppose those people who are arrogant in driving are certainly boastful and in everyday life, boasting in their work, etc. There are people who are so boastful that, for example, They can qualify a man with all kinds of and ugly names like a monster, etc., without evidence, without his ability to answer. You know, though, people like this, like those blasphemers who cross those two full lines and cross the column of the vehicle, so are these blasphemers and they look like a stale bar, but believe me, like that bar of water, because unfortunately, water doesn't seem to be possible without freaks, and so they qualify as humans, they belong to the category of people. I sincerely hope that the state will really have a lot of power and a lot of energy and power to stand up to both these first and these others.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u42983	13 minutes and 15 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word. After him, MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u42984	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, these changes and additions to the Traffic Safety Act on the roads deal only with the status of professional drivers, i.e. more precise determination of driving time, as well as the duration of the rest of those drivers. This law provides for the possibility of paying a large penalty for a violent driving, for which prison sentences were also provided. Members of the law relating to the procedures for vehicles not properly parked by officials and authorised services shall also be amended. The fact is that a large number of amendments in this law are caused by changes in European regulations and directives and on this basis we always seem to have to change not only this law, but also all others, although what is the purpose of all this if we know from the EU that, according to its officials, there is nothing until 2018, and probably never, or later. In his opening presentation, the minister presented figures on the effects of the new law that has been applied since December 2009. It's good when you reduce the number of accidents, the number of deaths and injuries, as well as the material damage resulting from car accidents. My fellow MPs from the SRS talked a lot about this law, that is, changes and additions, so I will say something about something that and how it disrupts traffic safety, as far as cargo vehicles and their participation in traffic are concerned. When it comes to road traffic, I would draw Mr. Interior Minister's attention to a problem he probably didn't even hear about, because I'm sure that such a rude violation of this very law and perhaps a violation of the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia would never allow. The worst part is that last year, and here we are, talking about the effects of this law, the dragon's penalties, the prison for the arrogant drivers, that, let's say, someone who talks to a mobile during the ride will be severely sanctioned or pedestrians who do so at a walking crossing, etc. And I'm saying it's supposed to work like that, so I'm not counting now. Mr. Minister, you have very bravely entered into a crime deal, you have opposed those who have turned a billion euros a year in crime and I therefore believe that what I am about to present to you will be taken into account and that you will take all necessary measures to stop one embarrassment and disgrace from both the Republic of Serbia and road transporters in Serbia. I once talked about this in shorter lines here in the National Assembly, but apparently it didn't happen to you, and it still happens. You remember, Mr. Minister, and so do you, the citizens of Serbia who listen to this, that the Cypriot illegal government of Hashim Thaci is KIM to the so-called KIM. Administrative crossings harassed our carriers, took off plates, stopped buses, kicked out of these vehicles women with babies, old people, sick, children who were scared of crying, forced them to cross the checkpoint next to the KFOR children's cars, on the other hand boarded other means of transport, as Thaci's Shipari did not allow our carriers to perform their activities in that part of the Republic of Serbia. Also, you remember the savage destruction of mobile phone transmitters, resulting in tens of thousands of Serbs in the so-called. the enclaves were cut off from the world, and thus were life-threatening, because they were thus prevented from communicating with hospitals, with the state institutions of the Republic of Serbia, with each other and family. You probably remember those ugly pictures of cut cables, broken techniques, which is, in fact, the picture and opportunity of the criminal Shipage Authority on KIM. Now let's get back to road traffic. Mr. Minister, you certainly know what purpose the test tables are for. I've got a MUP rule here, and I'm going to quote to you Article 34, Chapter Four, which speaks of license plates, and in Article 34, it says, "For newly manufactured, re-produced and completed vehicles that are in traffic on public roads, test driving for the purpose of testing or displaying the properties of those vehicles, for vehicles moving from where they are manufactured to where they are processed, re-processed and sold, for vehicles driving for technical inspection, at fair or customs, as well as for vehicles moving from the place where they are to which they are to be registered, test plates shall be issued which are used for the temporary marking of those vehicles in traffic." Then they give drawings of how they should look at those tables. So we heard when you can use test tables. Mr. Minister, I've got three photos to deliver to you later. It's vehicles with kiM, owned by the Shipari, who get test tables in Prokuplje so they can do business. What's worse, on one truck that was accidentally photographed, I didn't even know, although I later inquired about my colleagues, believe it or not, in Albanian she wrote the pre-election parol of Hashim Thaci and Berisha Oxali from Albania, in translation, literally said - I keep a promise. Such a vehicle with test plates, which is absolutely against the law and this rule, cruised Serbia's roads. Can you imagine, Mr. Minister, that with the test tables on the freight vehicle, or truck, cargo traffic and economic activity can be carried out backwards, unfortunately, for several years, to trample our roads and destroy themselves, to endanger the safety of not only traffic users, but also other citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Mr. Minister, the Cypriots from Kosovo and Metohija, in violation of all possible laws and regulations, I quoted for a moment, here in Serbia they get test tables when they enter from Kosovo and Metohija to carry out this economic activity and thus participate in traffic. Such a shame and such a violation of the law is to me as a citizen of Serbia and as a national MP, as well as to all other citizens who know what is happening – it is absolutely unacceptable to me. For something like this, every other Serbian citizen would be followed by a dragon's sentence, an economic crime, a prison, a ban on driving, a confiscation of vehicles, and for the Shiptara who came by truck from Poduje or Pristina, it is a reward, but at the same time it is an experience against Serbian citizens who work as carriers. For many years, the mentioned carriers have been crossing the administrative border with Kosovo and Metohija in the first city in central Serbia's territory, and this usually happens in Prokuplje, taking test tables and such tables, which are actually one glued cardboard, cruises to Serbian roads. In particular, the most of them come to a cement pop-up factory, where they charge the goods first, while our carriers can only watch from the side of what's going on. Then they return to Kosovo and Metohija, throw on the border test tables that are purposely time-limited and place some of their own and move on. It's been going on for days, months and years. Now I ask, and I would like to get some answer – with which travel documents do these drivers travel? What I.D.? What driver's license and registration? Whose memos are on these permits and travel documents and whose seals? Also, I wonder how such carriers make up for the use of Serbian roads, since they register in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija and that money goes to illegal Shiptarian institutions? In Serbia, they can harm citizens, their property, they can endanger someone's life and simply disappear with those cardboard plates. Not to mention the daily use of Augustes with vehicles that weigh over 50 tons. The question now is how will the law treat the Kosovo and Metohija Cypriots carrying goods from Kosovo and Metohija via Serbia to the EU or another country? Under whose laws will they complete all legal transactions regarding international transport? Our country should maintain its integrity and reputation and not allow such persons to transit through Serbia. For Serbia, anything that bears the seal of the state authorities of Serbia or UNMIK, or the UN, is legal if it comes from Kosovo and Metohija. Otherwise, the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia is undermined. An interesting case took place a few months ago, just about those Shipars who with the test tables from Probasing the crusaders to our roads. You know very well that a large number of Serb exiles have escaped from Kosovo and Metohija. Many of them are forced to do everything and everything here in Serbia to survive somehow. That's how some of them used to work occasionally as drivers with entrepreneurs involved in the transport of goods. One of them among the Shiptars who came to Serbia's heart with test charts recognized a tough KLA member. However, after facing him, he was quickly and better lost. The cardboard plates were removed from the vehicle that was taken immediately from the parking lot. This is the best example for you, which is why I say that citizens' safety is at risk, not just traffickers. And what is the security assessment when Kosovo and Metohija are concerned and possible terrorist attacks, I think you as minister are well-known. Unfortunately, a Serb who recognized members of the terrorist KLA moved on with his vehicle and his job, not knowing who to report, under what registration number and what name. Because, today, logically speaking, the Mazrek brothers, who were convicted, unfortunately, released after October 5th, for raping a 12-year-old Serbian girl who was then burned alive in a cretin near Klecka, can enter Serbia under a false name, as car carriers, which their warlord and criminal Hashim Thaci will certainly give them. Mr. Minister, it's this big mess of ours that you have to stop and cut. One of your officials in the area of Prokuplja can say it's because of Serbs entering from Kosovo and Metohija. However, that is not true. The Serbs use our tables here, and the Cypriots from Kosovo and Metohija, if they recognise the state of Serbia and if they want to deal with transport in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, should report a place of residence in Prokuplje, Vranje, Raska, Krusevec, anywhere, and have them register their vehicles there and take their transport. When they cross the administrative border, let them do whatever they want. I'm also interested in whether the police are searching these vehicles that enter Serbia every day, where they get test plates for carrying goods, which, I repeat, is absolutely impossible if we stick to the laws and regulations on registration of motor vehicles and connections? Mr. Minister, I'm asking you - what would happen if, by any chance, God forbid, such an illegal participant in traffic runs over or kills a child on a bicycle, say, in Paracino, through which he passes on the way to a priest's cementery? In this situation, the state of Serbia should sit on the defendant's bench instead of the Shipara because it allowed it to come up with plates in such an unregulated way and reach Paracino with its own vehicle. Even worse, if that winer escapes the scene of the accident or destroys those cardboard test plates, or places others, he may not have put them at the moment of the accident and so someone won't be able to record the number. How will the judge take the case tomorrow to find out that the freighter's driver was loaded with a test plate and committed the crime of endangering traffickers, and there is no such thing in the law, and the state gave it to the Serbs and made it possible? I expect you, Mr. Minister, to take the appropriate steps tomorrow to stop this disgrace and shame from the Serbian state. Because then what prevents anyone in Serbia from taking test tables when they're going somewhere on the road? Because, say, what would transporters have to register their trucks when they could take that same recipe from Shipara? I hope you have understood the bitterness of my, but also about 500 carriers from Pomorava, who are looking daily at the shame of the state of Serbia and who are asking you to stop it, given that you have so far proven yourself to be a minister who is in charge and with far greater and more dangerous problems than this one.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u42985	15 minutes and 15 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. National MP Dusan Maric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u42986	Ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of the Transport Safety and Change Act today will certainly contribute to further increasing traffic safety and reducing accidents on Serbian roads, so this trend, which was discussed by Minister Dacic, will certainly continue to be a positive trend and that is good, and this is why such laws are being adopted. However, in order for these more severe criminal measures, some of which are too high, such as the one on the obligation to light on the white day, to deliver long-term results, it is necessary to meet certain preconditions. I'll only mention two. One is to improve the position of traffic police and police at all. First of all, I mean the material position and the conditions in which they work. Given the work they do, which is full of risk and neglect, I think police officers in Serbia are working for salaries that can be called miserable, and the traffic police are working with equipment that is obsolete and which cannot respond to legal solutions. A low-paid policeman, with a salary of 30,000 dinars, with a worn-out uniform, spoke of by counterpart Petar Jojic, cannot be motivated to do this risky job properly. This job literally carries the obligation to face criminals and people who commit traffic and other offences in one way or another. A policeman who has a salary of 30,000 dinars, who does not have adequate working conditions, cannot be motivated not to forgive traffic violations, whether he is generous because he is taking bribes or without bribes. Improving the material position of police is an urgent job, such as emergency work to provide traffic police with adequate, modern equipment. I will set a concrete example of the Grand Plan traffic police, which, in addition to all current jobs, has an obligation to control a 50km highway, and there is a section on which heavy car accidents often occur. That police station doesn't have enough human resources to do the job properly. People there are killed by work, and the additional difficult environment is the fact that they don't have any additional equipment. It's better if a car accident doesn't happen. That's why these laws are being passed. But when it happens, then it is extremely important for the police to intervene in a timely manner, to properly make an insight, to make a record, to establish all the facts. Another prerequisite for traffic security to rise to the desired level is for roads to Serbia to be brought into a bearable state. Serbian citizens have been listening for ten years, regardless of whether DS, DSS, NS, G17, SPS listen to fairy tales of fast roads, fast tracks, about Corridor 10. However, the fact is that most of the roads in Serbia are in extremely poor condition, covered with holes and patches. We here in the Assembly often listen to the talks of two ministers, one former and one present. The first argues that he has paved more than 400km of roads, he says, European roads, the current minister says it is not true that he has paved it, that he will pave the way for more, it often looks like that child's bidding. However, the fact that many of these roads exist only in the minutes of this parliament. From concrete legal solutions, I will look at only two. The first solution is that the judge has the opportunity to forgive the driver who earned the prison sentence of 15 days or 30 days and to give him the opportunity to buy the fine. It's the amount of, I think, 100,000 to 150 thousand dinars, depending on the judge's assessment of the violations. I think this solution, which was probably made with good intentions, will have a bad effect because it will lead to the decomposition of drivers, the decomposition of citizens based on their social status. We'll have rich drivers and poor drivers. Ninety-five per cent of Serbian citizens have no money to pay this fine. They will be forced to go to prison, and those remaining 5% will pay the fine, but they will not feel it because they have money and it will not have any educational effect. The budget will be increased, however, the basic purpose of the law will not be achieved, and this is a preventive fact. The next solution I want to point out is this speed limit next to the school and when schools don't work. So, at night hours, weekends and national holidays, during the winter and summer holidays, I think it's one solution that doesn't make sense, it's pointless that next to one school, which may be out of town, someone in mid-July at two o'clock after midnight has to limit speed, to reduce speed. I will take this opportunity to point out once again the extremely poor state of the regional road between the Great Plan and the Smederjev Palanka. The road has a length of 11km, and for 15 years it has been in an extremely poor state, in such a state that is objectively a danger to traffic safety, so I expect Minister Dacic to advocate his authority that this issue, which has been waiting 15 years on the table of a ministry, is finally resolved. For years, however, the road inspection found that it was not possible to keep the path in place in this way, that it could not be used for traffic in this way, but that its basic reconstruction was necessary and that the complete path, in the length of 11 km, was changed by a new layer of asphalt. According to the traffic safety law, when a driver comes across a impact hole and at that time the car is damaged, he has the right to remain at the crash site, at the scene, to call the traffic police to make a record and therefore the driver can collect the damage he has suffered. If drivers did so on this road between the Great Plan and Smederjevska Palanka, and similar is the situation on most other roads in Serbia, traffic would be paralysed because it is almost impossible this time to travel at a speed of 50 to 60km per hour, not do damage to the car. Otherwise, it is a very common road between two municipalities that have more than 100,000 inhabitants. People from the Great Plane go to Smederjevska Palanka daily, to the hospital there, several hundred people, workers and school children, daily travels from one municipality to another. This road continues towards Mladenovac and Belgrade, i.e. towards Arangelovac and Topoli, and on the other side of the Great Plan, includes the Corridor 10 and the highway and drivers of heavy trucks from Smederjevska Palanka, from neighbouring municipalities in central Serbia this time using as the fastest and closest connection to the highway and the Corridor 10. Minister Dacic pointed out here that the biggest car accidents occur in populated areas. This is very important for the topic that I'm talking about for the reason that this road in the length of five kilometers passes through the densely populated parts of the Old Plane and the settlement of Bresje. That's where about 4,000 people live. The road is extremely narrow. Houses literally go out into the streets. Even in the situation that the road is reconstructed, that it is in good condition, it objectively poses a great danger to the residents of the surrounding houses because it is the only street that passes through the settlement. I want to point out that the reconstruction project is over. That the council of the Great Plan did everything that was up to her. We've also done a sewer network that's going down the road. The regional road company has allocated all necessary resources, including money. The "Serbian" programme envisions reconstruction, however, there is still nothing to do, so I urge Minister Dacic to advocate his authority and help solve this problem. I believe that the state of roads and traffic security in any part of Serbia must not depend on politics and political parties. In the end, I'm going to get out of this topic a little bit. Excuse me, how much time is left for the SRS parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u42987	It was 22 minutes and 35 seconds in total.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u42988	I'll use the remaining time to point out another example. It's an example of impact holes on the highway from the Great Plane to Belgrade. In these two years, as far as I'm going through this relationship every day, I've identified a dozen blast holes, and every time I travel this route, I wonder if the people of the Road Directorate and the people of the "Serbia" are using the highway. I'm curious about when a driver drives 120 kilometers an hour, comes across a hole like that, it poses a threat to both the driver and the car, and I'm curious about what needs to happen so that the responsible people can separate one truck, three workers, 500 kilos of asphalt, and change these holes? The remaining time I have left I will use it to honor the minister and her associates, to give them as much time as possible to determine the facts relating to the big hoax about the false assassination of Tomislav Nikolic, a prank that is laughing at all of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u42989	The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go. The remaining time is 11 minutes and 45 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u42990	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, it wasn't long ago, about a year ago, Mr. Dacic, you remember, of course, what kind of praises you were telling us about the Road Safety Law, and we assured you back then that these weren't exactly revolutionary solutions as you claimed at the time, so you claimed there would be less traffic accidents, the fewer victims, and we almost couldn't believe that in just less than a year you'd be looking for changes and additions to this law. That, of course, is in favor of what we of the SRS were saying at the time and warned you that you had a bit of a run for the adoption of this law, not because it was not necessary, on the contrary, it was, but you were simply not prepared for all that you had foreseen in the law and it proved to be so. If it wasn't for us today, we wouldn't have a proposal to amend and supplement this law, but perhaps you would be here today to report on the positive effects of the application of this law. You remember when we warned you that you wouldn't be able to pass the sublegal act you're predicting in this law, even by that deadline until December of last year, when this law began to apply. Then you smiled at us and claimed that you would be able to do it, because all the sublaws are already done, just waiting for the law to be passed so that you could put that sublegal act into office, that is, to start to apply. You are telling us in an explanation, which is why we are now dealing with this law, that the Road Safety Act on Roads has been applied since December 2009, which we know, the practice has shown that in order to apply more effectively in the text of the law, certain amendments and additions that will ensure consistent compliance with the rules and greater security of traffic participants, as well as compliance with relevant international documents that have been adopted in the meantime. Mr Dacic, don't run for those international documents that are being adopted in the meantime, I am thinking first of all of EU documents, because I just remind you that the same EU made a decision in its parliament a few days ago that will try to force five other countries that are EU members to recognise the fake KIM state. In addition, Angela Merkel tells you nicely, clearly and loudly – after Croatia there is no more EU enlargement. So don't run at every moment to change the laws, but make sure the laws that exist in the Republic of Serbia are applied. Of course, let those who need to change, for one reason or another, change. Take care of the members of the internal affairs in the way you were told and fellow Serbian radicals before me, and of the amount of their earnings, and of the uniforms and working conditions, because you do know yourself, and you often say that there are big problems dealing with all these issues. In addition to this, you say – the reason for the adoption of this law is contained in the need to specify the procedure, and in order to ensure efficiency in the application of the law, on the one hand, and rationalisation and reduction of the number of police officers who provide for its enforcement, on the other hand. You've also been telling us here when it comes to this law, and often in public, that there's no point in rationalising police officers, given the size of jobs, on the part-line of their work, and we haven't made any objections to you at that time because simply, if it's the needs of the MUP and if you're arguing, who can seriously comment on something like that, because you are ultimately responsible for it. I do not understand the reasons for the adoption of this law by an emergency procedure, because you say that because failure to adopt the law would have adverse consequences for the work of the state authorities, as well as for the security of traffic as a whole, given that these changes would significantly contribute to greater security of compliance with traffic regulations. Mr. Dacic, if this is true, then someone in your ministry, I don't know if you or anyone else, has to take serious responsibility for why you didn't know that a year ago when you proposed this law. Mr Dacic, I want to personally ask you, as Minister, yesterday we had information in the media that you met with Tomislav Nikolic, since this law is on the agenda, we don't know if it was because he's often parked in places intended for disabled people or maybe you wanted to know whose angry cars he's driving, since the Anti-Corruption Agency has reported a boat over 20 years old. Generally, after that conversation, Nikolic again accepted that the citizens cost 300,000 euros a year, as he says it costs so much to provide one man's security. As for us from the SRS, we do not care who threatens Tomislav Nikolic, we do not care whether you provide him or not. If anyone threatens him, there he is, keep him safe, we are interested, Mr Dacic, that the authorised lawyer of the SRS and Dr Vojislav Seselj, us from the SRS, above all Dragan Todorovic, Nemanja Sarovic, Elena Christmas-Talijan and me, who have filed criminal charges against both some newspapers, and against Nikolic and Vučić, tell us what you told Tomislav Nikolic. We know he's not threatened by Vojislav Seselj or any of the SRS. I'm confident and we're confident that you know that, too, and that this is what the data has come up with, both your service and other competent services. Now, I ask you, Mr Dacic, that, first of all, for the sake of Vojislav Seselj, for our sake of the SRS, for the family of Vojislav Seselj, you say – what do you know and what you have learned in the meantime about the threats to Tomislav Nikolic and does this have anything to do with Vojislav Seselj? We claim not to, and we ask you to speak out loud and clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u42991	The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic, vice president of the National Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u42992	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would firstly like to congratulate the MUP on these excellent statistics we heard today. It's really nice to hear something's going better. It's really nice to hear that traffic safety has been corrected to measure it to a few tenths of a percent. However, you know what it says, statistics can be very creative, so if it were actually going to be from the fact that maybe that statistics were made with certain indicators that indicated that the traffic in Serbia was in a catastrophic position, then any improvement was really a huge improvement compared to the state from which it started to measure statistical data. All in all, it's still good if there's a shift. When we debated this Traffic Safety Act a few months ago, I think that even then we pointed to one fact, that the most burden is put on the safety of this traffic to drivers themselves, some direct traffic participants, and that other factors and other factors that are very important to traffic themselves, to traffic. Other factors include road conditions, roads, Augustes, traffic signalling, traffic regulation through traffic police. So all of the things that are kind of neglected about how and with what extent, with which they punish the consequences if some of these factors do not produce the results that are expected. It seems to me that the most sanctioned is the driver who is also a citizen of this country. That is why it is truly strange that such a good result has been achieved in such a few months since this law began to apply. As far as I know, the roads really aren't that improved. Traffic in Serbia has not been given to the quality of traffic signalling, as far as traffic police are concerned, as far as building new highways or at least highways are concerned. That's why if you just look at the way traffic participants acted and participants as drivers, I don't think it gives a good picture of what and what traffic is in the state of Serbia right now. Safety of traffic is not only security in terms of traffic taking place by drivers on roads, Augustes, master roads and highways. The security of traffic is, in fact, something that represents direct contacts between citizens with traffic taking place in their cities, in their streets. So if you don't have safe traffic in the streets of a city, somewhere inhabited, if you live in a street that suffers serious problems because of an unregulated traffic, then traffic safety is also disrupted. It's not enough to say that someone caused a car accident, that there's been some material damage or certain physical injuries, but that when you live in a house that's constantly under the pressure of one traffic, the traffic traffic, so your walls are damaged, your walls are shot, you're in a lot of noise because of that traffic. So, you have one life-threatening environment because of that traffic going through your street. We, for example, have started construction in Zrenjanin, which has been standing for two years without doing anything about it. We've got cargo traffic going on, cruisers going through two streets. All those cruisers coming from the south to the north or from the west to the east pass through those two streets of Zrenjanin. People living in these streets suffer unbearable noises, suffering and material damage, and indeed suffer and endangering their health, because in case one of these cruisers goes over some rainy sewerage, in which case the lid of it can simply rise up and hit the wall of some of these houses, which was usually happening, so there have been serious damage to the property. So this traffic has been going on for years without the authorities responding to it. Therefore, I would ask the Minister, among other things, if the Ministry of Transport, since it is responsible for passing such a law and amending and supplementing the Transport Safety Act, has contacts and is it working with other ministries that are responsible for travel infrastructure? Does the MUP take care of the priorities of building infrastructure, building roads, August, highways, highways? Does it also mean that certain territories in the country are simply left aside when it comes to building new roads? Do you know anything about the fact that, say, the grain municipality is classified in the sixth category as to the construction of the road infrastructure? Does the MUP take account, among other things, of the fact that it is currently at the stage of developing a spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia, which is also of great importance for road infrastructure and for road construction in the near future. All of this is embossed with this Transport Safety Act and with all the amendments that follow that law, I repeat again, traffic does not only make it a driver who is already an existing law, and only if it is threatened in this sense that every failure of the driver and how punishable, unlike all other traffic users, and that is also a roadway driver, and competent to pay the travellers everything that the state owes, and the ministries that are competent to make one plan and programme in which they think to build a road infrastructure in Serbia, and traffic police which is obliged to signal that there are not enough traffic police officers to carry out their work in an adequate manner. So, in Zrenjanin, let's say, there's a good number of traffic cops missing, so they can't control traffic in a good way where it's extremely frequent exactly that freight traffic, with those cruisers, which traffic is regulated in terms of speed limit of 40 kilometers, but it's not enough unless you have a traffic patrol that controls it, and you don't have it because you don't have enough traffic cops, so why don't you have enough cop numbers if you have such a restrictive law that and how you predict that all those who don't comply with the law should be punished. Therefore, it is good that it is working to improve traffic in Serbia. It is not good, however, that this problem is not fully covered, but rather done in a rather partial manner. Therefore, I would draw particular attention to the MUP once more, that the MUP has an obligation and that it has the right to create policy and road construction in co-operation with other ministries, and to ensure these roads and the security of traffic that will take place on those roads. Without that co-operation, there are no adequate results, no matter how positive and good statistics are, as shown by Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u42993	There are no more registered speakers on the lists of parliamentary groups. Before we go any further, let me give you a heads-up. Since this is the usual break time, today we'll be working until the end of this point, and then the next item of the agenda will start on Monday at 10.00 hours. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Zoran Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u42994	Mr. Obradovic, Vice-President, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues, unlike my predecessors, Mr. Minister, LDP understands in part or in moderation why this law was re-engaged in the procedure. After all, this is a law that has an effect on all citizens of Serbia, including those who are not citizens of Serbia, who pass through Serbia every day. All but immobilized and those who lie in hospitals participate in traffic in some way, either as pedestrians, or as passengers, or as drivers. When we fought with Minister Mrkonjic a year ago to fix as much of this law as possible, although Minister Mrkonjic was still your representative because he had the same people sitting next to him, you were Mr. Minister and then decided, we failed at everything, and that's why it's a good thing that after six months the law came to work. And then we said that for a country like Serbia, which is a transit country, traffic is one of the potential priorities, i.e. an important business branch, as well as agriculture, to force foreigners who fly through the country into prison is truly discriminatory. You yourself said that about four thousand people should end up in prison for 15 or 30 days and if they wait for such a punishment for 3-4 years because of prison facilities, the relationship is lost. We also understand the social moments that other colleagues warn of, but ultimately, it will remain for the judges to appreciate who they are going to jail and who they will punish with these great fines. After all, it seems to me that since January 1st, amendments to the Law on Infractions that give judges the right to replace prison sentences with work in the public interest. It used to be called community service. It may be an opportunity for judges to make some difference in practice, to punish foreigners, to send drivers to prison, or to replace them with prison sentences with this work, so let them boast, reckless drivers take off labels from traffic signs, help hospitals, patients who are victims of such drivers, etc. We understand that. Whether there will be abuses in the sense that the rich don't go to jail, and the poor go again, depends on the judge, but we understand that we can't force strangers to go to jail because simply no one will pass. The second is Slovenia, which earlier introduced those vignettes to six months in order not to be a transit country, so Brussels abolished it, and now they give it to them for a month, but it's their policy. We must be a transit country. Neither would we wish to pass through Macedonia, Montenegro, Bosnia, Croatia or Hungary that prison is the only measure, I say to me, we Serbian citizens, and those who drive in such a way deserve a prison sentence should be honored. As for the fact that this law is changing again, we understand that, but it would be good to take advantage of this opportunity to change some more awesome than the ones you've suggested, some things that are unclear, some things that confuse. After all, other things that are interpreted differently in court practice because I don't see why you would miss such an opportunity, if you say yourself that traffic and life are something that shows some results after six months and requires fine-tuning. Let's use it to fix something else so that every six months or a year the law doesn't come back. You were tough last time, and you pushed that fundamental concept that is unacceptable to us, which is that the law enforcement police are involved in his writing. It is a practice from some earlier times when uniforms were very important, more important than in civil society. In Western Europe, European value is not that the police write the law, it is written by experts, and it is conducted by the police. But, well, your concept has passed, but you've been around some things back then, i.e. Your associates, I'm not going to say "shut up," but stubborn people are going back to that again today. I hope this time, you'll have your influence as Deputy Prime Minister, the first Deputy Prime Minister of the government on them, and you'll give in to some things. Let's say, about that definition of the settlement. And then we told you that there was still a different definition, not as broadly as you defined in the law that the settlement was built functionally united space intended for the life and work of the inhabitants. Indeed, then everything in Ibarska was mastered by the settlement, and that's not the case. We only suggest adding tables that limit the settlement and that it is a settlement from table to table. Now you're gonna say it's worth it. Excuse me, this law, among other things, is one of the motives to fix the budget and the agencies a little bit, and local self-government and this administration of the traffic police, since that's where the fine is shared. I doubt that out of these four thousand people, everyone will pay the fine, so if anyone thought they'd make money from it, they won't, but there'll be money for those tables, too. Therefore, leave less discretionary authority to the police and everyone will be pleased. Then, the relationship between drivers and pedestrians should be clarified because the wording in the current law is unclear, so in court practice, it is already happening that some judge judges the driver if someone ran out of the way and this one couldn't predict, and another judge is acting differently. That's why it needs to be defined. We suggest that you still listen to us, last time you didn't, that in the law, you would define maltenes as the same, it's important that it's on the left-hand side. In essence, if we were to split up and bypass and if the flow was just passing by the vehicle moving along the August lane in the same direction and going faster than 20 km, and the circumference was passing by the vehicle moving in the same direction and going less than 20 km, it would in fact enable the full line to bypass tractors and multiculturals, which is in practice not a violation, because the tractor that goes 15 km is objectively as an immovable object. Why wouldn't that be allowed to visit? This is how it's all over the current law. We understand and welcome the need to reduce the number of police officers. When it comes to this 6th law, I have to explain this for the sake of the citizens, taking the vehicle to a spider, you here now predict that a police officer is not going with a spider team, but sitting in a command center, a spider being equipped with cameras, a spider recording a wrong vehicle, that the police officer in the command center sees this vehicle, estimates that it is improperly parked, giving an electronic solution to the removal of the vehicle, this one in the vehicle receives, that solution puts on the windshield and within three minutes carries the vehicle. All right, it's a police rationalization, it won't have to be a cop in every spider. We understand that, too. We suggest we put a little order in there, though. What's this about? We all know, at least that we live in Belgrade, that "a spider" carries by police orders, that's how it's going to be now, but we all know there's no rule, no order, to get a spider into the street and take the vehicle first from the middle, which it chooses. We all know that "a spider" in the morning when it goes where it's closest to it goes and picks it up, we all know that often "a spider" carries a vehicle on the periphery that's parked improperly, but absolutely does not endanger traffic, does not interfere with traffic, and in the center of town there's a jam and there's no spiders. It's done without a plan, it's done as easy as possible. I'm not saying I wouldn't do that either, but that should be regulated. That's why we're proposing to add to that article a position in which you won't be primarily carrying a vehicle that doesn't threaten or interfere with traffic, that there must be a priority in these other vehicles, not to meet the norm, then you're going around town, and it's easier for you to get the vehicle out of some quiet street that nobody cares about, but in the Terraces. With that in mind, Mr. Minister, as I understand it, a radar control plan is being developed in the traffic police department. This is even made public, in terms of deterrence, etc. So, the cops that go out with the radar come out with a plan, as planned, shoot in certain places, at a certain time. I can't do it when they feel like it. I can't do it when an elder tells them about the plan. We think that by law, when it comes to carrying out unsolicited vehicles, there must be a plan that brings local self-government, which the police are implementing, some annual plan where, I'm not saying, they're going to predict what day the street is, but there are going to be some priorities, just in what I've been saying, there's no selection, there's going to be no vehicles that interfere with traffic, there's going to be worn all the vehicles, not just some. As with police officers on the ground, so do those who carry unlicensed vehicles, less discretionary powers, making decisions that are personal, less corruption, less headaches for everyone. We think we should take advantage of that. Besides, we suggest we take advantage of it, and we'll try to correct it through the amendments, a number of misunderstandings in this law, and some of them are, I think, dangerous. I told you about the pedestrians. When it comes to children and then we warned you that you couldn't put a child up to three years of age to drive in a special back seat. Why? That means a four-year-old can sit in a normal seat and bond. However, European practice and European directives say children below 150 cm are dangerous to tie up a normal belt. Children under four years of age have less than 150 cm and can't tie their seat belts. We suggest that instead of three years for a special seat in the back we put six years. That's about 150 years old. After that, children can tie with a normal belt. The law now states that in the front seat, in that reverse extra seat, a child can be driven up to three years of age, under three years of age. However, there are already children of almost three years or two who are large, who cannot fit into that seat and cannot sit there. We suggest that instead of three years it stands - 13 kilograms, because it is the limit for that seat. Let's put the years aside. There's more, let's say, we missed both you and I that as a reckless ride we define riding motorcycles on the back wheel. Think about it, could it be? It's one thing in the parking lot to drive, and the other one's in the main street, which we often see. I'm not saying it's as dangerous as going through a red light twice, but think about it. Mr. Minister, you said that what you're proposing in Article 7 is that the competent police department has discretionary powers not to file a criminal complaint against the driver who committed the offence, if he acted in order to protect safety, protect and save lives and health. I understand. After all, if someone drives a injured person to a hospital and passes down the street in the opposite direction or risks it, then passes through the red light, he certainly doesn't need to be punished. Probably even in Criminal Law, I'm not a lawyer, there's some analogy, that if someone commits a crime like causing serious bodily harm or injury because they're defending someone, the police won't press charges against him. You say - go fast vehicles accompanied by security services, etc. in action, so it stays on these indelible radars, etc. All right, I understand all that, but that's why I'm suggesting that what we told you a year ago is not fair that it can only be parked by the police, we've been saying that we should leave emergency services and healthcare professionals right, because now, if you're looking for the right to not file criminal charges, for something you think, I hope there won't be abuses, you don't have to endure, and you're taking the privilege that only the police can illegally park, allow those who carry the sick on the carriers that they can illegally park, and not possibly be, the subject of a police offence. When it comes to tollers, that's where you've protected them. So we suggest whether by mistake or intention you did not provide for a sanction in the law for a toll which does not have a road marking project or puts signs past the project, say, should stand – 80, and it has 60 on the lager, so put 60 on it. There's no punishment in law for that. We suggest that this also be sanctioned, because it seems to us that the tolls are truly protected as white bears by this law and that they are never guilty, but they are always the drivers. Also, the tolls due to a wording in the law, which is plural, stand – the dead, which is plural, do not have the obligation to come out on the spot, on the way, commissions to determine the characteristics of the road and traffic on that part, if only one person dies. If only one person gets killed in the accident, the tolls say, "This is where the plural is written, and we're not going to form a commission to determine if it's a black spot." We suggest that even if one person dies, there's enough reason for that commission to determine what's going on with that place and whether it's a black spot. Generally, we support, we hope that in some way you will adopt not only ours, as I understand it, and other colleagues have submitted amendments and that we will have a better law and that we will not deal with traffic security every year, but this time I appeal to you to be less stubborn. The main thing is that you police are in charge of everything, and in writing, and in conducting and in car schools, you pushed it out a year ago, and there's nothing we can do about it. Now let's at least fix this a little bit because, basically, I said at the beginning everyone, absolutely all citizens are involved in traffic. This has nothing to do with the parties, and I hope this time Minister Dacic will take advantage of his many functions to make this law much better fixed than you suggested.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u42995	The word is Jasmina Milosevic, an authorised representative of the SPS-JS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u42996	I just wanted a brief notice. Mr Ostojić, while we had passed this law earlier, was extremely regular on the Traffic Committees, and what goes through Murphy, when you don't show up, then something happens. I wanted to tell you, when we had a Traffic Committee on Tuesday, that very definition of violence was prepared, that it would be amended, where the people of the ministry accepted and all with the consent of your and my favorite professor Vujanic, who welcomed it completely and something else from the amendment, so that part would be arranged. I just want to draw attention that people know why right now we can't talk about changing the whole and the amendments to all the members of the law, because they're simply not the subject of this agenda point. You have a subject. A number of members who are on the agenda and we can only act within them, that is, to correct them in amendment, those who are on the agenda. The people of the ministry promised us, again in the presence of Professor Vujanić, I note, because I know that you appreciate his opinion, that since September, they will have the opportunity to have other members of the law that have proved inadequate, inadequate or insufficient and not yielding good results on the ground, be corrected. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u42997	Zoran Ostojić, since he has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u42998	Thank you, colleagues, for the information, but yet we have submitted amendments, our lawyers are quite creative when it comes to amendments. We certainly know that we can't submit amendments to something that isn't the subject of these amendments to the law, but since we did it this morning, when you read them, I'm sure you'll be for most.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u42999	No more sign-ins for the word. I'm asking if Mr. Ivica Dacic wants the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u43000	First of all, I would like to say about the amendments that have been tabled, which will be discussed in the next few days, so until the debate is in particular, I have suggested to my associates that they look at whatever is acceptable in terms of finding the best possible solutions, that we accept it, regardless of what may be at this point and may not have been the subject of these amendments and the addition of the Law, if that is legally possible. There is an interpretation that when it comes to amendments and additions to one law, amendments can only be submitted to those amendments and additions made by the applicant in this regard. Regardless of whether these changes will cover all of this, otherwise I said in my opening statement that I believe that after one year of applying this law all the institutes that have been introduced here should once again be seen the way it all works. A lot of what you've been saying doesn't belong, in practice, to legal matter, more to the way you're acting under the law, whether you're dealing with a parking space in some order or priority, who's going to determine that priority of traffic interference, etc., that's the conduct of police officers themselves and others who are authorized to do so, in this case parking service and others. We absolutely agree that anything that contributes to the clarification and improvement of the legal text should be accepted. This isn't some text of a law that's theoretically character. It is primarily life-threatening and concerns each of the people, as Mr Ostojić said, it seems to me that he has used that the vast majority of citizens are in some kind of traffic every day. This law regulates traffic safety on the roads, but it practically regulates and has to deal with such issues as the definition of certain concepts, what bypassing is, what is a populated place, what when you translate into everyday life for people is a very important thing to know how to behave. Of course, as is still said in the time of the French Revolution, ignorance of the law frees no one from suffering sanctions for contempt of the law. And this time it really takes all of this to go through a big public debate. I think a lot of things have been done to get people to know new legal solutions first, even the traffic police haven't recorded too much of those violations in the first place, given that it took time for people to get used to it. Let's just get some things straight. An alternative option, or the introduction of an institute, that someone can pay the penalty does not mean that everything that follows is abolished. So, the legal provision will be 15 days in prison or so and so many dinars, and besides, eight months of protection measures for the ban on driving a motor vehicle and 14 negative points, and by 18 points, you know that there is a withdrawal of licenses, a ban on management over a certain period and a practical start-up. Also, just so we don't mix things up, this isn't about a violent driving institute. Violent driving can't be replaced. A crime called a violent drive can't be replaced by a fine. For this, it is a prison sentence that is greater than 30 to 60 days, 15 criminal points and nine months of ban on driving a motor vehicle. This isn't about that at all. Someone here asked if anyone could buy their freedom. It's not about that at all. Even the one who pays the fine won't be able to drive a motor vehicle in the next eight months. The second thing, there really is a practical problem, as I put it out there, and the problem is that 4,000 people should go to prison for the first six months of application of this law. I'm not a minister of justice, but it seems to me that the total number of places in prisons right now is just over 10,000. Another thing, if you have a situation for foreign citizens to pass, very often you have people's life problems, that whoever needs to go to jail leaves the family without having anyone to take her further to the destination. So, a whole series of specific problems that don't rule out the possibility of a judge here, because a police officer doesn't make a decision here, he just records that that happened, and the judge determines what punishment will be. Whether the judge will determine a legal sentence or a fine, it is up to him to decide. In any case, and if someone gets a fine for the first time, I'm sure if it's any kind of return violation, so to speak, it won't happen again. Furthermore, when it comes to budgeting, for the first time now it is happening that one part of the penalty money goes to the Traffic Police Administration, which should all invest in improving traffic safety on the roads. On the other hand, one part goes to the Traffic Safety Agency, and one part goes to local self-government. All in all, we'll just see what the effects are. It's not intended to charge fines, because police don't get paid on the basis of fines. In any case, the salaries are otherwise determined and they are low, as you yourself said. The material position of the police is very difficult, the uniform was last won by the traffic police in 2007. As of now, various processes are going on through a system of public procurement that allows different bidders to knock down different competitions, tenders. We have a situation that even some other organisation units in the MUP and for years have failed to obtain certain parts of the uniform, shoes or clothing to perform their basic activities. Besides, you see it when you look at what these cops look like and sometimes they try to get parts of their uniform themselves. Part of what we're talking about now - traffic police revenues will certainly not be used for wages or uniforms or anything else. It will be used to train the police to detect violations and to ensure more traffic safety on the roads. Of course, we're also investing in infrastructure. He'll see everything he needs to control. Unfortunately, there are fewer than 100 cameras in Belgrade. Not to mention how much there is in New York City, when I visited the NYPD, the director of the New York police told me that 250 million dollars had been invested in the surveillance system after a terrorist attack in New York, and yet it happened that recently, as you know, in the middle of New York City, they were driving with bombs that, unfortunately, were not discovered, even with such a video surveillance system. I think London is a world record by camera number. It's a matter of several hundred thousand cameras that not only follow traffic, but simply, as you said yourself, they can follow you from the moment you leave the apartment building to the place where you committed the crime. Besides, that's how they found the perpetrators of terrorist attacks a few years ago in London. When it comes to what you were saying about Kosovo, about the test tables, since I asked that question, by the department of the traffic police department of October 22, 2004, on the initiative of people from the government, probably those who were dealing with the Kosovo and Metohija issues at the time, such a decision was made. That dispatch defined that because we didn't recognize those plates, they all had to take test tables. I think that the question is right and that, as part of the adoption of all these sublegal acts that we have, different regulations, regulations, we need to consider all these questions how to avoid abuse of all these things. So this is one practice that has existed since 2004. As for what Mr Ostojić was talking about, I really don't want to talk about these concrete things right now – belts for children and everything else, I think it's already a professional thing to really have a serious debate, because we very often have big disagreements in the professional public and with different professors on all these issues. You know, that's what I told you last year when we passed this law, if we had one situation that was proposed to introduce alcohol locks, that would mean that all cars have to have practically new locks that can't start a car if the driver is under the influence of alcohol. It's an extremely good thing, but I think there are several million motor vehicles in Serbia right now, not all cars, but motor vehicles, which means there's more than a million of them, and that's a good idea, but until it starts to be a factory thing in the car production itself, and Volvo has already started selling such cars, it's just very difficult for us to introduce some portable solutions now, which don't even exist anywhere in the world as a practice. I would also like to add that all of this you've been talking about, these amendments, it is possible to be accepted in the course of the debate, there is still plenty of time to discuss details, and of course, the most important thing is that the law really had positive effects. We can now talk about details, we can talk about making certain provisions, but the law had a positive effect because it reduced the number of accidents and the number of deaths by almost a third. A year between 800 and 900 people died in Serbia. So, we're this law, if we've contributed something, when I say we, I mean the National Assembly that passed this law, and we who have proposed it, and those who have implemented this law, and I'd like to remind you that there is also the Ministry of Infrastructure, that is, for traffic, which is also responsible for the adoption of this law, I think we've done one big thing if we manage to keep this trend in the coming years. I say – if we succeed, since usually after the law is passed, one year after the law is passed, it takes this shock effect, shock therapy, and then everything goes back to the way it was, and the figures are about to go back to the way it was. So I think it's very important that, in the next period, we all proceed together and with prevention, with training, with education, with the creation of public opinion, and simply, indeed, a large number of people are involved here. Look, here's what we're talking about now whether they can pay the fine or they should go to jail, it's 4,000 people. They didn't have a violent ride, but they drove much faster than they were allowed. For example, next to school is allowed 30 km per hour, they were driving 90, over 90, that means they were driving over 200 on the highway. So they drove 80 over the limit. In these situations, you don't have to think about whether they have money or not, in principle, it's gonna be hard for someone to go over 200 unless they have money to pay such a fine, that we understand each other. Because if someone doesn't have the money to pay such a fine, I don't believe his car can reach that speed. Anyway, this isn't about someone avoiding jail time because they have money to pay. Perhaps the judge will only give him the punishment that he can't pay at all, but you have other penalties for various violations that are so alternative, it seems to me that Mr Ostojić said or I don't know who was talking about it, when these penalties are imposed that punishment can simply be done and, as it used to be called, by social-helpful work, there will probably be some other resolutions. The travel documents from Kosovo and Metohija, meaning that there is no dilemma, no one can cross our administrative line towards KIM with travel documents or personal documents. independent Kosovo states, that's impossible. It can only be with our documents, with documents from other foreign states or with UNMIK documents that we once admitted. Everything else is practically impossible. Even when foreigners have such a situation to first come to Kosovo, then cross the administrative line, where there is a seal so-called. The countries of Kosovo through which we strike the seal - annulled. It's simply a procedure that exists on the administrative line. Of course, life is like that, there are many problems that have to be solved and in some cases a certain understanding is necessary. It was probably the idea that because of the need for mutual trade, economic movements, test tables were introduced to bridge the problem. The second question is the corruption that you were talking about – how do they now have the advantage? It's a thing now for another police department, not for traffic police. To note, as Mr. Jojic spoke of it, this Department of Traffic Police, except for the exercise of its basic responsibilities regarding traffic security on the roads, but not only on the roads, is not only on land roads, but also waterways and others, in addition to performing regular tasks, has its other competences. For example, during the first six months of this year, 354 crimes were discovered, of which 153 perpetrators were discovered and caught on the scene. Ten guns were seized, four rifles, 145 rounds of ammunition, 60 illegal migrants. 96 people were found on the warrant, 73 stolen vehicles, 196 forged licenses, a few kilos of drugs, heroin, marijuana, etc. So they do other things, not just by keeping traffic safe on the roads. Finally, when it comes to other questions you've been asking, the police are not announcing their security plans for certain objects and personalities. As you know, it has the status of data that are so-called official secrecy, given that there is a certain danger to these objects and personalities and given that their security plan is never announced. So if it shows up somewhere in the paper, it's certainly not the police. We believe it directly endangers the safety of these people and objects. When it comes to what you asked about Tomislav Nikolic, the MUP is obliged to protect the individuals for whom there is information that there are security threats. We have been informed by the Special Prosecutor's Office, as we have repeatedly said, that certain statements mention the possibility of jeopardising the security of Tomislav Nikolic and, in that sense, the MUP has taken certain actions. However, the investigation is being conducted by the Special Prosecutor's Office, so all the information on this is in charge of the Special Prosecutor's Office. The police don't go into politics, so I wouldn't want to go any further into these discussions about these issues either. It is our obligation to approach every threat in a serious way, without disrespecting or misbehave and without bringing different information to the public that sometimes endangers the work of the police and the safety of the people, and endangering the verification of the truthfulness of the information itself. I think for those of you who are mentioned here, it's of great importance to determine the full truth about what's going on. That's what the D.A.'s doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-15-0.u43001	Thank you, Mr. Dacic. I am concluding a principled search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Safety Act. I've got a report from the Veterans of Radeta. On what grounds? (The Witch of Radeta, from the scene: based on an explanation.) I'm sorry, you've got an explanation. We'll continue our work on Monday, 10:00 p.m., by proposing a law on amendments and additions to the Anti-Corruption Agency Act.
