ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41428	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, today I will present a brief example relating to the case of the High Court in Zrenjanin. The Supreme Court in Zrenjanin in Case K – number 168/08 is subject to criminal proceedings against Zivanov Miroslav, otherwise the director of Agroziv from Pančevo and other persons. By the defenders Djordjevic Dragana, Djordjevic Miroslava of Zrenjanin's lawyers and by Jovan Ciric of Pančev, in this case in relation to art, remarks have been put on the case concerning the art process, the trust of the art of the Institute of Judiciary, which is registered in the Register as a company of action, not a professional institution, nor a state body. Therefore, the Department of Justice is not listed on the list of legal entities that can perform the craftsmanship of the Ministry of Justice. Some of the members of the skill team are not even listed on the list of permanent judicial skills at the Ministry of Justice, as well as that Professor Dr. Perisa Ivanovic as deputy director of the damaged "Vojvodjanska Banka" could not perform the function of the expert. On this occasion, the court's lawyers pointed out that they had obtained new evidence that indicated that when determining the art, the law was violated, causing major and inconspicuous adverse consequences. By resolving the district court's investigation judge in Zrenjanin Kbro – 70/08, since 18 June 2008, the art was entrusted to the New Sad Department of Judicial Arts. In the privatisation process of the Department of Justice, through the method of public auction, through the Privatisation Agency 70% of social capital was purchased by Tijana Djordjevic, be careful, please, from Novi Sad, Street Turgenjeva No. 1. The Department of Judicial Arts was enrolled in the Agency for Business Registers as a company of action, and the Central Securities Register shows that Tijana Djordjevic's largest shareholders are 55%, "Arious Limited" with 6.47%. According to internet data, the owner of "Arious Limited" - of a short company registered on the Virgin Islands, is Tomislav Djordjevic of Novi Sad, otherwise father of Tijana Djordjevic. You see the scandal – in the indictment of the district attorney in Zrenjanin, it is said that the company "Agroziv" a.d. Pančevo was taking loans from 18 business banks and that it used these loans to pay dividends to co-owners. Of all 18 business banks, only one bank has applied for damages. On 6 April 2009, Novi Sad, "Meridian Banka", also applied for damages of 128 million, as well as a second part of the claim relating to the damages of 225 million. So the Meridian Bank approved two loans, one in 2005 and the other in 2007. The founder and owner, co-owner, chairman of the Management Board and member of the Meridian Bank Management Board was Tomislav Djordjevic of Novi Sad. Art in the case, where "Meridjan Bank" a.d. Novi Sad, whose founder, owner, co-owner of the Management Board and member of the Management Board was Tomislav Djordjevic, and executive director, his daughter Tijana Djordjevic, was entrusted to the Office for Judicial Arts in Novi Sad a.d., whose majority owners were Tijana Djordjevic with 55%, "Arious Limited" with 6.47%, Tomislav Djordjevic. This is a unique example, Madam Minister. I don't know, you didn't know for sure about this, but you have a chance to find out now. So, this is a unique example in court practice that the art is entrusted to the injured in criminal proceedings, although it is a provision of Article 116. The Code of Criminal Procedure is prescribed, explicitly prohibited from determining the person or institution having the property of a damaged person, as well as that persons employed by the damaged person cannot be an expert, but must be excluded, as prescribed by the provision of Article 45. The Code of Criminal Procedure. How is that contrary to Article 114(2)? The Code of Criminal Procedure, because the art is entrusted to the action society, not to a professional institution or to a social body, because it is more complex art, that the Institute is not listed in the Office's Office of Permanent Arts as a legal person, that the skills were performed by persons not included in the list of permanent judicial experts, and that the skills were entrusted to a legal person owned by Tijana Djordjevic and Tomislav Đorđević, founder, owner, co-owner, president and member of the Management Board, and the Executive Director of the "Meridian Bank", who, by setting up a compensation claim, acquired the status damaged in this case, were thus violated the provisions of Articles 116, 1 and 2. The Code of Criminal Procedure, and how it was injured by the same member, that such a finding and opinion could not be based on a judicial decision – the defence demanded that the court within the meaning of Article 18(2). Code of Criminal Procedure, Article 178. The Code of Criminal Procedure provides a special solution to the identification of findings and opinions of the Department of Justice. Madam Minister, you have no record of this institution. These warlocks, which are artificially damaged, are not in accordance with Article 116. The Code of Criminal Procedure. The judge who is the President of the Higher Court in Zrenjanin is Bakoš Ilesš, so please check through the Higher Court and the Supervisory Board, as well as the competent body, as the question arises – is it possible that the damaged may be an expert in a criminal case? Not only in a criminal, he can't be an expert in any case! Namely, the provision of Article 116 shall not determine a person who cannot be heard as a witness, as prescribed by Article 97, or a person who has been released from the office of testimony, Article 98, as well as a person to whom the offence has been committed. And, if it is specified, his findings and opinions cannot be based on a court ruling. Madam Minister, you've begun to clear these things up, as far as the court's skills are concerned, insist on it. There's a mess and there's a crime. You have the right and obligation to settle these matters in the best possible way. As far as this law is proposed, one question is asked, because there is no provision in the law – to whom will the party in the proceedings appeal to the findings and opinions of the expert, unless it is satisfied or the finding is false and if it is false, and if it leads to the party being damaged in the proceedings? Will he have the right to appeal to the Minister of Justice or to any other authority, you don't know that here? And for that reason, it is certain that if this law is adopted as proposed, there will be shortcomings in certain segments, so it will be necessary to make one better, complete law, which will be effective and manage relations and thus prevent crime. Secondly, regarding the art of art, I don't know how far you've come and does the government intend to amend the rules on fees and rewards of bankruptcy managers? In Agroziv, Panchevo, if this is indeed appropriate, it is a shame for the government to bring one tariff, under which the bankruptcy manager in one case will earn and take money, rob creditors worth 600,000 euros. I don't think that's appropriate, but you have to fix it as soon as possible and stop it, because it's an irregularity. We know the case of the Belgrade department stores that the bankruptcy manager took 400 million dinars as a bankruptcy manager at the Belgrade department stores. You've had examples that it's become a very lucrative and very profitable professional profession for some bankruptcy managers and certain artists, and these individuals who were favored have been appointed along with those who were determined by the monopoly, and this monopoly costs workers and taxpayers, so it's necessary, Madam Minister, to make a C-section in relation to these items I've been talking about. There's a lot of crime! Stop crime! Clean up, get an iron broom, clean up the area of art. Clean up as far as the court's skills are concerned, but there should be another area in turn. I remind you, from my humble experience of 30 years in law enforcement, it will be necessary to arrange relationships in the selection of a jury in courts. Secondly, I don't understand how you could have appointed acting president of a senior court who reached a verdict for one... [[- The microphone's off. Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41429	Time. Since the lists of MPs are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion, I ask if anyone who has not used the right of Article 93 wants a word? (Yes) The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41430	I am using the right to, on behalf of the Prosperity Group, the Serbian-SNS, on behalf of the authorised representative, say what other colleagues have not said in an adequate manner or simply failed to see. What is generally accepted, even in this part of the opposition and part of the government, is that this bill has not resolved any of the key issues that burden judicial skills and has not offered any new solutions that would provide objective and quality skills. What am I proving to be my claim? Well, your Article 2 where you have defined that the work of skill is actually to provide the court of expertise in order to determine, assess or clarify some legally relevant facts. Mrs. Malovic, you're a lawyer, a kind of lawyer, an intellectual, and you know that the existence of expertise is not the aim of judicial skill, but of delivering an expert finding and opinions and that only the existence of knowledge is a potential that is not activated. The fact that he is an expert and has some knowledge is neither a guarantee nor a request, which the law would have to have that he would make an expert finding that would serve the court to make the right decision. In that sense, and in that part where I define your inaccuracy, I am also building this general assessment that this law has done nothing new and quality. Please, by accepting the amendments that we've given, correct only this first wording of "judgmental skill" and it's no joke if I tell you that the SNS legal team has told you – it would be easier for us to write new laws than to correct the ones that we get here in order, or correction. The find is proof of the existence of some knowledge, and in professional skill, we have to agree. Today I am fortunate to present my discussion when MPs are fresh, and I am counting on you, ready and open to accept objections, primarily referring to the quality of judicial expertise in the matter of non-accountability, which is extremely important, and to those who are willing to take 30-years' time off for treatment at the prison hospital, which is ongoing, according to data from the CZ prison hospital, for two to five years, and for all those who have been unhappy, for all those who have been raped, those who have been mourned for being killed, for all the damages that have remained unfairly damaged because of someone's declaration of non-accountability that the guilty is not punished as the law prescribes it. There is no right of the Ministry, which suggests this law, nor the Serbian public to accept that a neuropsychiatrist is responsible for assessing non-accountability, by giving or not giving its knowledge as a potential when it works a finding, but rather for it is a court which, rather than the expertise of the experts, has to use it to determine, assess and clarify legally relevant facts. We will agree that skill is not a verdict, but an expert assistance to those who make court decisions to assess in the best way whether and how much one should be responsible for the work that has been done in the court proceedings. This isn't a newspaper. The fact that the expert findings of the witch are misused by the daily newspaper inscriptions is witnessed by the pain of the victims and the damaged, but even the literary works testify to us. I'm a big fan of literature that really, as I listen to all the music, I read all the literature. I refer you only to the work of a well-known, widely read, writer Paul Koelj, who in the book "Veronica has decided to die" described how in our close neighborhood, in Slovenia, special institutions are being opened in order to abuse medical procedures and treatments, healing or declaring unaccountability, some people are left without property or some people are found innocent because unaccountability can serve it. In order for you not to defend yourself to me that the non-accountability of the law is defined as, conditionally, a liberating circumstance, I will immediately tell you that non-accountability is not used cumulatively exclusively as something that needs to be freed, but only alternatively, through, or unaccountable, where in Article 23. The criminal law sees well that the finding of non-accountability was left only as a possibility for an assessment that is widely misused and that is why I'm talking about it. It is said in point 1 that it is not a criminal act that has been committed in a state of inaccountability, but attitude 2 says – it is unaccountable that the perpetrator who could not understand the meaning of his actions or could not manage his actions due to mental illness, temporary mental disorder, residual mental development or other serious mental disorder. And then experts engage, those who are always in solidarity with their fellow neuropsychiatrics, even when they engage as independents to confirm the finding, that someone who has committed a serious crime is freed from punishment by being declared unaccountable, placed in a hospital, and as soon as the trial passes and the dust settles, the evidence moves that someone who has been released from prison sentences, usually long-term, has actually healed, cured or healed. And what we have in reality. The return of many such disturbed or uninterrupted, but thus identified as disturbed patients who commit crimes in return, and then we wonder who is guilty and whether we as a society have done something to prevent it or are just helping to get to cases like this. This example absolutely confirms that skill training is necessary and necessary, so that they can do their job, because they need to know what the position of the expert is in the process. It's not enough that you're an expert in medical, economic or any other field. We insist that the importance of the findings of the court expert, according to the rules, of the criteria that you will regulate as the Ministry, because you are responsible and formally and in any other sense, must ask the experts to also seek guidance in this part of the work, because they are doing a very responsible and significant job for the whole society. In that sense, there must also be conditions for the registration of artists, for the way they are elected, for penalties when they break the rules of the profession, not penalties when they don't change the phone number in the register where it's registered, to measure the significance of the offence, or to measure the punishment, adequately to what's called failure, violation or intentional abuse of the right of a judicial expert. To make things worse, in this part of the area I was talking about, these skills about insanity are very often entrusted to doctors who work in prison hospitals. There's the unsub and placed under suspicion of committing some kind of crime as mentally ill. These same doctors later assess those declared unaccountable that they were marked, freeing them from further forced treatment and preservation. Whether what I've just said is an open possibility for, I'm not saying and I'm not saying, directly and absolutely, but there is a very great possibility of creating conflicts of interest, corruption. This law has failed to prevent any rule from happening. Please, we've tried amendments to make it right, and that's what you have in mind. The fact that prison doctors are employed at the Ministry because they work in these hospitals, which you have legally counted as those who can do judicial skill, raises the question of whether the Ministry and the state authorities, even you as a minister, as an organ manager, may or may not be obliged to appoint doctors for individual skill. In light of the fact that money for art, even when a legal person does artificial work, the law does not specify that it is being paid to an organ, but to a natural person who, in the name of the organ, is also opening up a space for the abuse of discretionary rights. Well, this one who manages the organs, you as a minister or someone in the body you give the right to do the art now, can use his friend, not Mike, but Peru, because he's closer to him, to determine that he's doing these skills, and that he's actually abusing the need for society to work quality and professionally, and to be in order to prevent criminal acts and in general abuse of other people's rights. In principle, a big question opens up, should you at all allow state authorities and civil servants to perform skills? Please think about it, because there are more serious reasons for that. The most important issue is the question of the independence of an expert who has the status of a civil servant. Skill is a commercial activity, and you have to agree with that. The question arises: whether civil servants and state authorities are then unfair competition with judicial experts, natural persons who are otherwise to be enrolled in the Register, to be referred to all the rules of judicial procedure so that they can serve justice rather than work for money, rather than for justice. We know from practice that the mention of prison doctors, I focus for example, but I'm speaking in principle about the abuse of this kind of skill, come to trial as an expert, personally charging for testimony, preparation, but they do it at work. The question arises, if someone in the working time as a ministry worker or another state body is doing a particular job, is it just a copy of the practice that we have in this government, and God knows that even in some cases, that people in the ministries are members of 150 commissions in which they receive some responsibilities, and they're probably superhumans who can accomplish so much work in 24 hours, while we're talking about the unemployed, about the young people we think, who we train, etc. The kind of phenomena I'm talking about, they're destroying the credibility of an expert in general, but they're also the ones that need to be based on court decisions. Fortunately, one of my friends has the habit of making a joke – the reputation of the ministry cannot be compromised, because it is so reformed that this law and this conduct can hardly further endanger him. I don't think it's just a joke, I'm afraid it's a much more serious thing. I really ask you to take seriously the amendment that we have given about what I have stated in the principle discussion as an objection, because in each individual case we have explained, giving you as a minister the right that you should otherwise use by prescribing both the list and the areas of narrow specialities from which the skill can be done, how the work fee is charged, by issuing a fiscal account, with some record which as a state we must also have in this field of service. You must admit that the importance of the art of this law is trying to regulate itself, indeed, will not be arranged without the adoption of the amendments that we have given you as well-intentioned and very safe citizens of this country. I'd like you to show one measure of openness and a measure of well-meaning when you define this law, and we'll do it together in the discussion of details. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41431	I thank Mrs. Tabakovic. Is there anyone else who hasn't used the right of Article 93? Does the Rules of Procedure want a word? (No) The word has our minister, Mrs. Snezana Malovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41432	I thank the Presidents, the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the constructive debate on the draft law, which was prepared by the Ministry of Justice, which is a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. As we have repeatedly pointed out, we are implementing a comprehensive reform of the judiciary. Under judicial reform, the smallest segment, but a fundamental precondition for further implementation of the reform is the choice of judges and prosecutors, as well as other judicial professions. By law, I mean, of course, the experts. Furthermore, judicial reform also involves reforming work procedures, both at the level of criminal and judicial proceedings, then, executions, then reforming the work organisation itself within courts and prosecutors, but also the change of consciousness, which I would say is the hardest, and what I believe we will succeed. Major criticism has been raised by many representatives, even this home, in terms of judicial reform, but I will say that we will respond to all criticism with further work, and the very facts that we will achieve in terms of judicial reform will talk about how justified these criticisms are or are not. When we have a condemning judicial verdict, and we already have some, in relation to the actions that have been conducted, and even for decades, they talk about the success of judicial reform. As I said, the Department of Justice has prepared this bill on what we want to reform judicial professions, among other things, and skills. You had a chance to hear here that the last law that edited this area was brought in 1987 and it is anachron in itself, not only in terms of the language to be used, but also in terms of certain provisions. I would like to point out that this law and this bill cannot be observed for themselves, but also within the laws that treat the procedure, means, the Law on litigation and the Code of Criminal Procedure. Is there any change here during last year, but I also announced that a whole new law on litigation will be drawn up this year, as well as the Code of Criminal Procedure, and certain provisions on treatment and art will be found in these laws. Some MPs have apostropheded what the objective of this law is. I will be free to quote here Article 2 which says: ''The jobs of skill, within the meaning of this law, represent activities of which, with the use of scientific, technical and other achievements, provide the court or other body that conducts the necessary expertise to be used in determining, assessing or clarifying legal relevant facts. I agree with certain statements that it is the aim of artificially giving findings and opinions. Also, I agree with certain statements here that have been made, that skill should not be a verdict. Unfortunately, we've had situations like this. I've had the opportunity to watch and craftsmanship by some international artists or organizations where they really give their findings and opinions, and it's the court that makes the verdict on that basis. In some cases, we have had criminal practice, but the law is something that is generally governed by a particular area, and the way it is implemented often in some cases there is a eviction. But, of course, as has been said here by some, there is no need to generalise. There are certain negative examples. They are often visible in practice, much more than they are positive, but we will try to encourage more presence of those positive examples. When we approached the draft of this law, we didn't go down the toilet. I may have missed my opening statement to say that we did a comprehensive analysis where we found or wanted to determine which number of skills and what professions are being conducted in Serbian courts. We also went one step further, so we determined something that was also highlighted here, which is the appearance of certain skills in certain judges. The reasons for that can be double. I want to believe that it was because of their expertise, because they were able to help clarify certain facts during the proceedings, but we also had those other negative examples that ended even with convictions condemning in criminal proceedings. I would like to point out that there was also a proposal to put the conditions for performing skills and the criteria of dignity and we are very open to this proposal, so that, in careful consideration of the amendments, I will propose that such an amendment or amendments be adopted. As for the criteria for how we're going to get to the data that the number of experts and what professions we need, I'm going to tell you that, even though the current law has been very general and has not given such specifics, in order to enroll the experts at all, we've asked the courts for the needs in certain areas, which they need, and on this basis we've written down. The current law does not prohibit or prohibit the possibility that you can determine the number of artists you need to enter, but whoever applies and whoever has the conditions, he must be entered under the law of the minority. In the future, there will be no more cases, but based on the need of the court, we will ask the court and the law as well as predicts, the needs in certain areas for which they need to call a competition for the experts, will be discussed and, on the basis of this, through the contest, the experts will be enrolled. As far as the deadline is concerned, I would say that the deadline is neither short nor long because there have been remarks by some MPs that the debt, too, was also a remark that it was short. I think he's responsible, so there won't be a delay in the proceedings and that the trials could go on uninterruptedly. It has also been made clear that certain civil servants should be experts. Generally, somewhere, and I agree with the fact that it exists, that there may be perceptions or an illusion of the appropriateness of their skill, so to speak. But there are areas where, simply, only such people have knowledge. I will say, for example, in the field of forensics, where people working at the Ministry of Interior have those knowledge and they can be adequate experts to give an opinion and an opinion in those areas. But in terms of working time, that they can't be present at the same time in court and being kept at work, I totally agree. We have taken certain measures, not only in relation to the artists, but also in relation to the interpreters. All amendments that have been made will, of course, be carefully considered by the Justice Department. We've had a very open relationship with all the proposals, unrelated to which side they came and everything that can essentially contribute to a better text of the law we'll accept. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41433	I thank Minister Malovic. I am concluding a principled search on the draft law. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for an Amending and Complementary Law on the National Bank of Serbia pursuant to Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, on the basis of a thorough review of the draft law on the 5th item of the agenda, I have invited Mr Radovan Jelasic, governor of the National Bank of Serbia, to attend the session of Dusan Lalic, Director General of the Lawwork Directorate at the National Bank of Serbia. You received a bill amending and supplementing the National Bank Act from the National Bank of Serbia. You have received reports from the Legislative Committee and the Committee on European Integration. Before we open the original search, before we begin, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours and shall be distributed in the following way: Parliament's Group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; SRS Parliamentary Group – one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; G17 - 18 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliamentary Group Forward Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; DSS-Vojislav Kostunica's parliamentary group – 24 minutes; SPS-JS - 18 minutes; MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds; PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they haven't already done so, to file an application for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that MPs' groups have authorised them to represent: MP Zoran Kasalović – MEP Group SPS-JS; MP Vlajko Senic – MEP Group G17 plus; MP Vesna Pesic – MEP Group LDP, MP Zoran Krasic – MEP SRS. According to Article 142, paragraph 1. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Do the officials of the committees want a word? Excuse me, does the proposing officer, Mr. Radovan Jelasic, the governor of the National Bank want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41434	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable Members of Parliament, the text of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, which the National Bank has proposed primarily to comply with this law with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but also to strengthen the independence of the Central Bank in accordance with central banking standards, i.e. principles and suggestions of international financial institutions, such as the European Central Bank, the IMF, the World Bank, etc. In addition, the aim is to remove ambiguities, i.e. to specify provisions in relation to which there have been doubts in practice, in particular those relating to capital, loss coverage, or distribution of profits and statutes. The proposed legislative solutions should also provide for further convergence of the provisions of the EU Treaty and of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, and in particular with the provisions of the Statutes of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank, given the strategic definition of the Republic of Serbia to join the EU. The key newspapers in this law are the following: strengthening all four key criteria, independence and independence of the National Bank of Serbia, which are: the functional, institutional, personal and financial, the establishment of the Executive Board towards the National Bank of Serbia, which assumes all powers of the current Monetary Committee and which is delegated part of the authority of the governors in the area of the supervisory supervision of financial institutions, the improvement of the supervisory role of the National Bank of Serbia's Board of Governors, the precision of the provisions on the selection and termination of functions, as well as the conflict of interest of governors, vice governors and members of the Council, the regulation of the more comprehensive and clearer provisions on the determination of monetary policy instruments and other functions of the National Bank of Serbia, the prohibition of public sector, the precise definition of property of the National Bank of Serbia and the way in which its profits are distributed and cover the losses, the improvement of the national governance of other issues and the national governance. It is important to point out that the principle of independence and independence of the Central Bank, which I would like to point out, is not in itself a goal, but a means to achieve its basic objective, which is to achieve and maintain price stability. Given the first functional aspect of independence, the first unequivocal relationship between the goals, i.e. the primary objective remains, the achievement of price stability, and the objective of financial system stability is specified. In doing so, the responsibility of the National Bank of Serbia for achieving these objectives has been clearly established. The Executive Board and the Governor shall, within their jurisdiction, be responsible for achieving the objectives and the Supervisory Board. Secondly, in order to strengthen the institutional independence of the National Bank of Serbia, in addition to the prohibitions in this bank, its authorities and members of those bodies to receive or seek instructions from the national authorities and organisations, as well as from other persons, it is explicitly prescribed and banned from the state authorities and organisations, as well as from other persons, to endanger or influence the independence and independence of the Central Bank, its bodies and members of those bodies in the performance of their functions. Such a relationship with state authorities has been accurately established, providing for their mutual co-operation, not jeopardising the independence of the central bank. The proposed amendments concerning the choice of governors, the extended term of office of governors, vice governors and members of the Council, from five to six years of age, the precision of the procedure, the resolution of these persons, as well as the explicitly established right to review the resolution decision should contribute to the third personal independence of the National Bank of Serbia, i.e. to prevent the influence of the state authorities on the performance of its functions. On the other hand, provisions provide for the prevention of conflicts of interest, excludes the influence of other persons, especially those controlled by the National Bank of Serbia, or co-operated in their affairs. At the end of the fourth, the financial independence of the Central Bank of Serbia, which is a prerequisite for achieving its and all other aspects of its independence, is provided with provisions specifically stipulating that the National Bank of Serbia, in order to achieve the objectives and perform the functions set out in this law, is independently determining its incomes and expenditures and has its own assets, as well as provisions laying down new rules regarding capital, the allocation of profits and the coverage of losses. I would like to point out that strengthening the independence and independence of the National Bank of Serbia does not exclude co-operation with economic policymakers, but puts it on a more precise and legal basis, which can contribute not only to quality coordination but also to more efficient implementation of economic policy in general. At the same time, strengthening the independence and independence of the Central Bank also increases its responsibility for decisions taken and measures taken and implies the need for greater transparency of its work, which is why the law prescribes more intensive reporting of the National Assembly; the Financial System Stability Report, the half-yearly report on monetary policy and others. As regards the management of the operation of the National Bank of Serbia and the supervision of these operations, new provisions are redistributed to the authorities. The Executive Board takes on greater responsibility in the area of preserving and strengthening the stability of the financial system and the control function of the National Bank of Serbia, as well as the responsibility to settle certain important issues and operations of the National Bank of Serbia, such as tariff, property, the proposal of statutes and the development strategy of the National Bank of Serbia, and secondly, which was mainly in the governor's jurisdiction so far. The governors' council is also entrusted with additional powers, particularly in the area of financial business, which should contribute to better quality and more effective supervision of the work of the National Bank of Serbia. In the end, I'd like to highlight a newspaper that refers to a ban on monetary financing. The law contains an explicit provision that the Central Bank cannot finance authorities, regardless of what level of government, republican, regional or local, and in what form the government is represented, directly or indirectly, in the form of public undertakings, agencies or other legal entities, whose founder or in which it has control rights. This provision has key importance for achieving the basic objective of monetary policy and also for maintaining the necessary fiscal discipline. I thank you for your attention, and I am ready to answer all your questions and any concerns about the proposed changes and additions, which will contribute in the long term to improving the business of the National Bank of Serbia in achieving the objectives and also contribute to Serbia's well-being. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41435	I thank the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Mr. Radovan Jelasic. Do the officials of the committees, Mr Ratkovic and Mr Varga, want a word? (No) Does MP Petar Jojic, who singled out his opinion, want a word? He's not here. Mr. Momir Markovic is not here either. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Mr. Momo Colakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41436	Dear Presidents, a respected presidency, respected to the governor with a co-worker, respected MPs, the PUPS parliamentary group considers the National Bank of Serbia to be one of the most important and important state institutions in our country. First of all, it should be turned towards this Parliament, according to the highest legislative authority of the state, more than the executive authority, and we, in our assessment, think it must be changed. In this respect, the statement the governor has now made is considered positive, which is that as little executive power is interfered in the jurisdiction of the National Bank of Serbia. Our assessment is that it has not been achieved in the right way and in the right sense the control function of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in relation to the functioning and function of the National Bank, in part, if nothing else, as the governor put it - co-operation with this institution. We had to welcome the governor's resignation in order to have the draft law on amendments and amendments to the National Bank Act and the possibility of saying something about the basic functions of the National Bank. In our opinion, it has to change. It would be very useful if we were previously informed about monetary policy, especially about the movement of the exchange rate of dinars during this period, i.e. in 2010. With regard to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, the PUPS Group believes it is acceptable and points to several basic principles for which it has built that position. First, a formulation of independence in conducting a dinar course policy. We think it's a good thing to work with other authorities, as the governor pointed out, especially with the finance ministry. When it comes to the authorities of the National Bank, we think, too, that a good solution is that individual functions, which have been performed so far, and the powers of governors are transferred not to monetary ones, as has been so far, but to the future executive board of the National Bank, and in this respect we consider this solution acceptable and positive. We think it's a good thing that this authority should make regulations, above all the statutes and other regulations and decisions that the governor of the National Bank has made so far. When it comes to the term of office and extending the term of office from five to six years, both the governor and the Governor's Council, we also consider it a good solution, both because of the continuity and the continuity in performing these functions for a longer period of time. The Board of Governors shall consist of five members, as so far, elected by the National Assembly. In this regard, I underline that it is very important to achieve greater co-operation and communication between the National Bank and the National Assembly. Article 43 removes the position that removes the possibility of the National Bank crediting the public sector and the budget of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, I mean liquidity. In that regard, I think this attitude should be supported. We think it's very good and positive. When it comes to income and income distribution, it is also a positive solution that above a certain limit, as said -- 20 billion dinars, the difference will be paid into the Republic of Serbia's budget. At the very end, I would say that it is very important and positive that future decisions and all acts of the National Bank of Serbia will be found in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", available to the public and accessible to all who are intended. Our PUPS parliamentary group, as I said at the beginning, supports this bill on amendments and additions to the National Bank Act, will contribute to a principle and individual debate in order to improve the text of the law, and in the voting day it will support this legal solution. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41437	Thank you. There is a word from MP Zoran Kasalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41438	Dear Presidents, honourable governors, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the effects of the great global economic crisis were such that many theoretical and economic postulates were completely shaken, destroyed, so that currently a large number of countries in the world create specific answers to the challenges of the global economic crisis, because simply there is no one universal response to these effects. It is precisely in the context of the topic, and I think that the ideas and intentions of the Proposer of the Law on the National Bank of Serbia in relation to the creators of economic policy, I would like to list certain indicators that speak precisely about the results of the measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in late 2008 and 2010. Of course, there are indicators in 2009 that encourage, as well as indicators that show certain difficulties, problems to be addressed and, of course, key challenges that will lie ahead of economic policymakers in the future. In 2009, the Republic of Serbia had a decline in gross social product of minus 2.8%, but what is good is that it was significantly lower than projected and that when compared to countries in the environment it was much better than those countries, except Macedonia. Inflation was at a level of 6.6%, also lower than projected, savings increased by some 26%, which was good for the financial sector's stability, and the reserves also increased and here, according to current data, they are at a sufficient level to meet its purposes. When we talk about the projection of gross social product growth for our country, they say our recovery should be something faster than the countries in the region. According to projections, between 1.5% and 2%, and now the latest projection says it will be 1.5%, and here, the latest data from the Republic Statistics Office says that exports in April 2010 were 28% higher than the same month of the previous year, which shows a good trend. The big problem was and remained a high unemployment rate and average net earnings, which is also somewhat lower than the region. What is quite clear to all, and I think all economic experts agree, that both the Republic of Serbia and all its citizens will feel better, we will not be sufficient growth rates of 1.5 to 2%, but growth of gross social product at levels of 5 to 6%, in a continuous period and, of course, economic policy that must be socially sustainable, a policy that is not theoretical but simply applicable. I would like the creators, or the government of the Republic of Serbia, to take care of it and not ignore the parable of the famous Canes – that we are all long dead. A key challenge for this policy to be conceived and implemented into action will, above all, be to achieve macroeconomic stability, the issue of inflation and course and, of course, what I wanted to bring all this information and to make an introduction – to achieve all this, it will be necessary to work on further strengthening of state institutions, its responsibilities and thus creating a favourable environment in the state of Serbia. For this very reason, and because of the intention and idea of the legislator of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, the SPS-JS Parliament Club believes that this bill is going in this direction to strengthen a very important state institution and in principle we will support this bill. The reasons for the motion itself were quite detailed and I would like to mention only a few topics, and above all, they concern issues of strengthening independence and independence in all the parts that the governor has spoken of, then, defining and defining the objectives of the National Bank of Serbia in relation to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the way of financing, so that this law, as we have heard, affirmates the accepted international rules of financial law, where the National Bank of Serbia, committees, members of the Committee, the Government, other bodies cannot give advice, nor they can seek certain advice, while the National Bank of Serbia has its own incomes, as well as property, certainly to enhance the independence and independence of the National Bank of Serbia, which is, as well as the empirical research, a prerequisite for Serbia's national bank to achieve the best possible goal of achieving and maintaining price stability. Of course, it seems to me that the second complementary objective, therefore, of achieving the stability of the financial system, is not possible to separate with this first one, but it is therefore possible to clearly and precisely define the relationship of the National Bank of Serbia and its authorities with the authorities, in that sense that the National Bank of Serbia is certainly cooperating, on the condition that it does not in any way compromise these basic objectives set and that it is not excluded from the process of implementing state economic policy, respecting market conditions. I find it very important, which the governor also spoke of, an explicit provision prohibiting the monetary financing of the authorities at all levels or in any form, it goes in favour and that research is speaking, and that is already mentioned, in that sense can also lead to certain fiscal instability, i.e. certain tax evasions. I want to say that the data also says that in the Republic of Serbia we have up to 30% of gross social product tax evasion, while some standard in highly developed countries is about 15%. Of course, by respecting this provision, it is in this way indirectly affecting the reduction of tax evasion, i.e. the strengthening of fiscal discipline. However, while respecting this information, I consider it certainly necessary for the tax administration as an institution to be strengthened, along with the necessary and announced changes in the tax system and tax legislation, respecting the fact that the tax on income can carry out the least evasion and that data speak, while in income tax, for example, these evasions are very possible and today they are at a significant level. We expect the Ministry of Finance's announcements in this direction to be implemented soon. Of course, the announced law on the introduction of fiscal rules will certainly strengthen our institutional environment and I think it is time for fiscal rules to be established by law, because the data already say that the projected deficit of 4% can even come to 5%, that we should define both the relationship and the salary and the public investment through fiscal rules. The law should solve a burning problem in the Republic of Serbia -- a reduction in public spending. I believe that without one such law in the middle of the medium term in the Republic of Serbia, it will be a problem for public spending to be brought to the needed level, and the experience of many countries shows that such a law in the medium term gives very good public spending planning, which is certainly the problem in the Republic of Serbia. As far as NBS authorities are concerned, there are certain changes, instead of the Monetary Committee, the NBS Executive Board, which has extended certain powers, accepting part of the governor's powers so far. We consider the process to be operational, mode of work, decision-making. What is very important is that this executive board will be able to function better and thus establish monetary and foreign policy. The governor, as an organ, will continue to run the business of the NBS, organize the work. What appears to be in this part is in line with constitutional provisions on the choice of governors, in this case on a proposal from the President of the Republic, most of the votes take place his choice in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We think it's good, which the governor himself pointed out, that the provisions on conflict of interest are precisely and in detail defined and they are passed on to everyone, both officials and employees of the NBS, including vice governors. As far as the Board of Governors is concerned, it is being strengthened by the authority on the supervision of the business of the NBS. Members of the Council shall be elected, as provided for in this Act on Amendments and Supplements to the NBS Act, on a proposal from the Finance Committee. I would like, in short, perhaps, to compromise with some public inscriptions that existed in the press or some expressed views, above all, that this body might be political character and make political decisions, drawing them out of the election process of the Council members. I cannot agree that this is how we will get candidates in the Board of Governors, just politicians and politically defined. First of all, there is a good provision here that ensures that a minimum one member of the Council is a man with ten years of work experience in financial and audit affairs, which is certainly a limiting factor and promotes the professional capacity of this body. On the other hand, the very claim that the Finance Committee will be managed by political objectives, I don't think it stands, because so far the Finance Committee has been the committee responsible for proposing the governor himself, so we haven't received in this sense a governor who was just a political figure and implemented political decisions, so I believe that the good work of those remarks does not stand. And since the decision on the course regime is being removed from the Executive Board's powers, I also think it does not appear that it is possible to produce certain problems, because the course regime determines the Council, on the basis of a proposal from the Executive Board, which determines the course policy, so that the regime's proposal must be in line with the course policy, is not possible, and of course with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I don't think there are any objections to this guy in this part. A reduction in the number of vice governors, too, I think it's good and will lead to more economic, operational work and the Executive Board itself and the NBS itself. Of course, this law on amendments to the NBS Act and a large number of provisions deserve attention, but appreciating the very theme of my discussion and the importance of strengthening the institutions of the Republic of Serbia in general, in terms of creating a favourable environment, merits this part of attention. Finally, I would like to repeat once again that the SPS-JS Parliamentary Club will in principle support the law on amendments and additions to the NBS Act. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41439	Thank you, Mr. Kasalovich. The word has a folk MP, Dr Vesna Pesic, and then a National MP, Mr Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41440	Dear Mr. Governor of the National Bank, the esteemed president, the esteemed colleagues, first of all, to say that I would use half the time of the authorised exhibitor, because I think we'll probably continue the debate on Monday or Tuesday, because as far as I've heard today, it's only one or half of two, so we can keep one part of the time to continue the debate. I'd like to point to two problems first. The ruling coalition often points out that "stability" is one of the most important objectives of Serbia's overall policy. I must say, if we look at the statistics in the region that we have most often changed the governor and this whole situation to re-elected the governor, although the governor has not expired, as well as the overall context that appears, that there is one key instability in Serbia regarding what it wants, well, now, and when it comes to monetary policy. For this instability, which comes from what we're doing today, I'd like to point out two arguments. First of all, I don't know why the Serbian Parliament allows this key law, such as amending and supplementing the National Bank Act, to be followed by an urgent procedure. I was able to personally determine that the professional public, and this, our top economists, had never seen this law, nor had they been informed of it, that the MPs had received this law on Friday, that we were exposed to criticism that people were asking us – did you read the Law on Electronic Communications or the Law on the National Bank, that no one could prepare, master, because they were filed on Friday, and the session was scheduled on Monday and that this violation of the law, such as this one, indicates that we are indeed managing and what we have managed to build from our institutions and that these key institutions have been questioned. So I would ask, if the President of the Assembly can defend the reputation of this institution not to allow laws that have no basis for an emergency procedure to be passed when it is not their time. The emergency procedure itself has been determined. No law we're considering right now would satisfy that condition. We feel that we are damaging our citizens if we are considering these laws in an emergency procedure. This mugging also shows the crash head we can take, precisely, with these changes and the supplements that we've got today. I will now point to several arguments why this LDP bill is considered inappropriate, here for the following reasons. First there were words in public that according to the new law, which would be passed, the governor would be part of some collective body, and then there were words – no, no, there would be no change of law, a new governor would be elected under the old law, and then waited. Mr. Jelasic, who is here and I thank him for being with us today, had enough time to prepare, if the law was changed, for a regular session. What were you waiting for? Was there an approval waiting? Why were we waiting for the last moment to get rid of this law now, instead of getting it on time? The second thing I resent in this context to Mr Jelasic is that he resigned for such an important and essential function as the governor of the National Bank, with an explanation that he gave it for personal reasons. I think it's illegal for him to have to say in what context he resigned. Because it's the public's impression that he was exposed to great pressure and the executive authorities, that he lost political support and that, we all could see, our pseudobiscism of the elite, what they call tycoons here, was pressured to spend foreign reserves, that it was expected that through monetary policy they would get some sort of fixed course of dinar, that this pressure was unsustainable and that he had to resign. It's a total part of what the public felt was happening when it came to his resignation. Now that we see this context – that it was a great pressure to introduce a fixed course of dinar, I'm not an economist and I'm not giving a lecture, so it's an absolute disaster to introduce a fixed course or something that looks like a fixed course of dinar and that all the negative consequences of that would be. We believe that the policy of the fluctuating course has been good so far, with intervention on the foreign exchange market only for daily oscillations, but it is obvious that more has been asked of the governor – that he defends a certain level of course and that foreign exchange reserves are needlessly spent, and that, we all know so many economies, this course of dinar cannot be defended only by spending our reserves. During this year, the National Bank sold a billion and 108 million, and the dinar continues to fall. We know why the money's going down, that it's other problems, not the monetary policy that's been going down at the National Bank. When I did this introduction, I see now that this is why you, Mr. Jelasic, had to resign. These were no personal reasons, but you could no longer endure the pressures that were put on you, that this law now enabled what they wanted. This law introduces the politicisation of the National Bank. I'll try to show you what it's made of. In that sense, the LDP has divided the amendment into Article 23 and some other members, but that is the most important thing that we wanted to say. You have now introduced and given greater authority to the National Bank Council where, without any procedure, you have prescribed that the Finance Committee of the Assembly chooses by majority vote the Council with some service criteria, which is not important at all, but you have opened a single channel through which it will now be able to influence the executive and other tycoon authorities on the work of the National Bank. And then you gave that same council permission that he would determine what the course regime would be, with the government's consent. That's in Article 23. Here it stands – and on the proposal of the Executive Board, which so far was called the Monetary Committee, and now it is called the Executive Board. One political body, I must say to a political body, which is now called the Council, in which we do not know at all what criteria people will be proposed, and since we cannot close our eyes to the experience so far, of course we know that it will be the political council that is now entering the National Bank Council. In what way this Council, in which it will be determined, will be chosen, there is not a single word in this law that will be the procedure. Secondly, which I also consider to be an element of politicisation, is that, in principle, it would not bother the President of the Republic to propose a governor, because it could be in accordance with the Constitution, but we have repeatedly pointed out that our president and president of the DS, which is not allowed, so when he proposes to function, he proposes in the capacity of the President of the DS. In addition, we believe that even when the president proposes that a certain procedure be put in place on the basis of which and who he consults, how the governor proposes. It's not a small matter, and it's the governors and the procedures to be chosen by the governor. This channel of openness now made to have a council that dictates the course regime, and then in some way the course policy, we realized that now, whether it's the influence of the executive-tian government, that channel will be opened in the future. You have stated that the Council is making a decision on the regime of the dinar course, with the consent of the Government, in Article 23 or on a proposal from the Executive Board. In Article 14, when it comes to the responsibilities of the Executive Board, it is clear that the Executive Board has no jurisdiction at all to propose a course regime to the Council. The question arises – why is this confusion being made that, allegedly, the Executive Board is proposing to the Council, and I repeat once again, members of the council are given the highest authority and are not employed by the bank. They are not subject to that responsibility, but are people who are elected on the side, who will be elected politically and who will carry out, above all, the political influence on both the course and the regime. It's very difficult to distinguish between the regime, as a broader concept, and politics, if this kind of involvement is made, that the Executive Board is allegedly proposing, and there's no such jurisdiction at all. So I pointed out that we were asking for a change in Article 23, and I am now ending it, therefore, to be expelled – that the Council can decide on the regime of the dinar course, rather than remain, as it has been, above all, in the jurisdiction of the Bank. And, as you eventually formulated, when it comes to economic policy, it is certain that the NBS is in consultation with those who are leading economic policy and certainly does not do anything quite the opposite of what is the economic policy of the state. That co-operation has always been open. You were able to attend government sessions and consult and arrange for that, of course. But when it comes to the course regime and what has been said so far, we believe that the intensity of the course being fixed and that there is a change in that regime that is seen in public, as well as the politicisation of the bank will not bring stability, nor the well-being of Serbia, but I think it can bring you down into more economic problems than we have today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41441	Thank you. Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41442	Thank you. I've had more variations on how to start a debate about this law. One of them was from one of those interesting children's exchanges, that those powerful for nothing might get something, and that all of us would get nothing by this law. However, I did find the most appropriate statement by one of the prominent economists in this city, who said that instead of this law, I should suggest, in fact, the privatisation of the National Bank. I say - how do you privatise it? She says - nice, let's sell the People's Bank and be clear with it, because she, in fact, is privatized by this law. I'm saying -- they probably didn't propose such a law because they didn't agree, I mean the power. Where's he going with the money? He says: "Who says that privatisation means the collection of income from what we privatise?" I say, what do we get? Then I understand the essence of your law. He says – by privatizing, by belonging to a bank, we would legalize a person's state of affairs, we would clearly show what we already have in use, and indeed it is. I called the law scandalous. And the scandal comes and goes, and this law, if passed, really represents the ultimate loss, not monetary sovereignty, but the economic future of this country. It represents a very arrogant and selfish law, and a self-loving law that cannot be subjected to the specificity of an institution like the National Bank, to write the law for itself. You, Mr. Governor, have written it as governor in resignation, to cover all mistakes made, not to answer for them and to answer for yourself, in this House, with 126 hands, literally, protection against all the damages that have been done. And it's not just a story. Your twenty members of the law come from decisions of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court, where the behaviour of the National Bank, the decisions of 2007 and 2009, seem unconstitutional and illegal, result from the fact that you are as the authority of the National Bank, or governor, do not consider yourself employed, and you are not personally responsible for the damage you are doing, but the Authority, or the National Bank, answers in your name, and you are now legalizing this law and are asking that the governor be protected even if he is no longer governor, that is, in that position. You're asking that there be no court jurisdiction, when it comes to the National Bank, because everything where you damage employees from the National Bank, I'm also talking about the verdict, you point them to an administrative dispute, but by this law you say nicely, that where the jurisdiction of the National Bank is, the court cannot judge, even in this administrative dispute. And what is it called, Mr. Governor, an institution that is above the interests of the Serbian citizens, above their right to the Constitution that they are not slaves, but to be employed, above the government, where any co-operation, objection or advice is defined by the threat of independence, where you are above the courts, because where you are, the court can't judge, even in that statistical law, you've brought your citizens and your right to give information to others, yours, exclusively, the law, above all? And this is not an accident, because what you're doing here in this law, you've done in the public debt bill, which we're going to talk about, but not in this session, so it's not obvious, but in one of the following. Not so tight, it couldn't be discovered. Not so skilled, it couldn't be punished. I am convinced that this relationship, covered by the Central Bank's independence mask, will, in fact, be exposed as an attempt for the National Bank to, the moment it stopped the SRJ Constitution, until the National Bank was a state body, cannot be so inconspicuous and unknowable as to get out of the state over the state, an institution over the institutions. And that makes this law possible. So, under the cover of the story of independence, which is, and theoretically very well processed as something that has evolved over the past 20 years, so the National Bank is instead of dealing with development, employment and working with the government as executive bodies in this respect, which does not mean, unequivocally, only to print money and say – a, old banks, and how it was, and rows for gasoline, and oil, primary emissions, etc. Please don't use those arguments. Under the mask of it, you have agreed to completely and theoretically, and what is worst, practically, predicate in independence which means – that someone gets something for nothing, and that the rest of us get nothing. A billion and one hundred and eighty million dollars were spent to maintain, apparently, a stable course, which is your goal of maintaining the stability of the system, inflation, and you didn't preserve either. Do citizens know how much money it is? That's 10% of the Republic's budget. That money is twice as much as what the MAP spends a year on budget. That's five times as much as the Department of Justice spent for a year, and we care about justice and security, to protect. We also care about the stability of course and price, but how much does this expert policy cost? That your behaviour of burning and creating fires to be extinguished by repo operations and introduced by newspapers, unknown in any country in the environment or beyond. Federal reserves are private, and we know they are, but at least they're transparent to the citizens. You, Mr. Governor, in this law have put everything secret, and when you negotiate with the IMF and with all other institutions. Without any restraint, brutally, you blatantly said – everything is a secret and will be punished by anyone who gives it away, no matter how he finds out. I transfer information from the law, not hyperbole. How can it be a secret for the Serbian Parliament to ratify that agreement with the IMF, in which you accept the obligations that concern all of us?- I'm sorry. Now you're valorizing it with this law. It is natural, even, that you can negotiate for the government on behalf of the government. Is it natural for you to charge government services and, on the other hand, ask to be released from VAT because you are like state authorities and others? You may not know, there's an opinion from the Ministry of Finance that you're tax-free, but that's why by deciding on court fees, because you've had a lot of litigation, you're not free of court fees. And it was appropriate for you not to be released from court taxis, because you are a special sui generis institution, so you can be independent of everything else, and most of all in the fact that we are the only state that has a 'private coin', which makes extraprofits, of which Mr. Šoškić referred you to the Council how to present what you do not have. The document, right here, is what we get from the Council. The fact is, you didn't transfer to the budget any of the only dinars of your profits and evidence of your success, expertise and knowledge, you attributed interest to the deposits that the state holds with you. In which part of the world and the globe of the Earth, in the entire cosmic space, there is an institution that the government only needs to cover the losses, as defined. So, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens need you only when they need to fill the budget that needs to cover the losses of your smart and well-timed decisions, or that they are eventually printing out securities of value, so they are handing you over to cover those losses again, but you are asking, in Article 100, that the property (the Republic of Serbia, which the NBS uses in accordance with the Law) will be yours on the date of entry into force of this law. And what does that right mean to you, as governor or any future Radovan Jelasic, to sign management, management, sale or purchase of property? What's so important to you about success in your work and whether someone loses something if you get it or you invent a "perpetum cell phone" that we all win. Or do we start from the National Bank, what we felt in the succession, is the property of the one whose territory is found? So, you've provided yourself with an unseen secret that everything you're doing can be prosecuted, that the property is yours, that you can decide for yourself if you can't get three people together as vice governors. Having experience with telephone governments, well, why don't you, otherwise, decide the way in which Mr. Stojanovic, who resigned when you changed leadership in the Vojvodjanska Banka, without his knowledge, he was the vice governor, responsible for the control of banks, said – and who of you to ask for consent is not a monetary entertainment committee? It's a statement from an honorable man who resigned and left the National Bank. I quote not a private conversation, but a published text in "The Voice of the Public" at a time when, as an announced bank manager, you came and gave her permission to deal with castods of affairs, for which she had previously been rejected by a previous governor. What kind of independence are you talking about? What kind of well-meaning, achievements in the financial field are you talking about, and who are you talking about? You count on the ignorance of the largest number of citizens you say – do you remember the gas can, do you remember the lines, empty shelves, etc? What was the result? Some sanctions of a political decision, but also abuse of the financial system? Yes, but also abuse. Is it short when you ask yourself to print long-term securities? What do you want to do, repeat it to Dafina? How many printed securities have been printed yet? How much money did you broadcast, Mr. Governor, paying interest since 2005 and beyond for repo operations when you offered interest higher than inflation and by a few percent, clacking, in the meantime, so that the business banks were getting, because here's the only financial system operating with profit? But to repeat the issue of fellow SPS colleagues, my friend from the Finance Committee, Mr Kasalovic, the question he did not work on further elaborate, specific problems and conditions require specific answers. You, Mr. Jelasic, did not offer these laws no specific answers, no recognition that we had traditional banking in the world as economists, would not have brought virtual financial products into a situation that we all suffered from the financial crisis. You can't make anything out of anything. It's the law of physics. Only in banking is it possible to create something from nothing, and that is, to write down a few zeros and to create an opportunity to charge interest. The students of the first year of economy know that. This is what our citizens know about virtual life that they can't feel, and they're very imaginative and intelligent. If such a law is passed on to the National Bank, I really think that raising and building a foundation will require a lot of effort and a lot of work. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41443	Thank you. National MP Radojko Obradovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41444	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Jelasic, Mr Lalic, an extremely important law is on the agenda, a law that regulates the Central Bank. This law is proposed in the form of amendments and additions to the law, however, when you look at the amount of these changes, what the number of members that are changing and what the structure of the changes is, this is de facto one new law on NB and it is more important that we have a quality and good debate, because the role of NB in the system is extremely important and important. We need to look at the whole thing with a lot of optimism, because it's quite clear, especially from what you've been saying, not just today, but also from your conversations about both the economic situation and the problems, that the key to solving the problem is always with us and that there are many solutions to our problems here and not elsewhere. The role of NB is regulated by Article 95. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, where NB is said to be independent and subject to supervision and solely to the National Assembly. The National Bank has been in the public eye for the last few years of several different things – foreign exchange rate issue, interest rate issue, foreign reserve level issue, for the past few months, it seems to me that it was March 23rd or 24th of this year, by resigning from the governor. Today we are discussing the law, and we have not yet elected a new governor and we have a governor whose council has already resigned and whose resignation has been established on the Finance Committee. The paradox of our situation is best reflected in the reasoning of this law. We have two procedures in the Assembly – standard and emergency procedure. In the light of why this law goes according to emergency procedures, there are two reasons. The first reason is to comply with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and the second reason is to create conditions for the election of governors. I would remind you that you resigned more than three months ago, and the deadline for harmonising the provisions with the Constitution was December 31st, 2008. That's a year and a half ago. There are also reasons why the law enters into force, i.e. the Constitution provides for the law to enter into force on the eighth day following the day of its publication, and this law proposes that the law enter into force the next day. So these seven days are very important to us in this case, and these years, six months and seven days is something that is extremely important. On this very case alone, we see what our problems are and what we all need to deal with, not only in the Assembly but in Serbia at all. What is key to every central bank, including the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia, is its independence and independence. The constitution says independence, the law says independence and independence, and the first question is whether these two things are connected or enough to be independent, or whether it is enough to be independent, or whether it is necessary to be independent and independent. The governor has repeatedly explained the difference between independence and independence. His son, six years old, is completely independent, because he feeds, gets up, brushes his teeth, dresses, but he's not independent at all, because he also affects and depends on his parents. It doesn't matter if the National Bank is alone, but it is necessary for this law to create conditions, in addition to independence, to be completely independent. What's the question for us is, is this law creating possibilities and is the National Assembly on its way to allow for the independence and independence of the National Bank? In addition, for all of us it's extremely important, are we creating conditions that we have, or does the National Bank help us all trust what the Central Bank is doing? Of course, in answer to that question or to all three questions, there is a counter-question – who is the greatest threat to the independence of the National Bank and where is this main struggle for independence and independence? The answer's pretty simple. The main problem of the National Bank is the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the main problem of each central bank is the government of the respective country. Do the Government and the Central Bank have a common goal, or may their objectives be quite conflicting? The law says that the Central Bank's goal, which this member has been slightly modified in addition to the basic objective, which was price stability, is also the second goal of preserving and strengthening the stability of the financial sector. This is fully justified given what has been happening in recent years, especially in recent months in countries around the world, the role of the National Bank in preserving financial stability is extremely important. But let's get back to this first goal. Wouldn't it make sense if that was the government's goal? That's exactly where the central bank's main secret of independence is in relation to the government. The National Bank should not be involved in politics and should be completely deprived of politics. On the other hand, the political parties in the government are sitting in order to have a better rating, to have voter favors and have to do things that their voters will justify. They have to do many populist things, populist measures, and in the government, they differ to the extent to which it is less or more pronounced. Of course money is needed to finance various projects, always the government will say that all projects are needed. Here we often talk about investing in agriculture, infrastructure, well, if we don't do 50 kilometers a year, then, next we promise 350, that sounds very nice. On the other hand, if you say whether pensions are small – of course they are small. Whether salaries are small – of course they are small. It takes resources to fund all of this. The moment the National Bank opposes subsidies, donations, borrowing and spending of these funds, a key problem arises, and this problem has arisen here as well. So there should be no dilemma. This is a key problem, and it is obvious that these two targets that are seemingly to be matched often come into the situation that they are on different and opposing sides. The goal that the National Bank sets for itself, which if it wants to preserve independence, independence, professionalism and preserves the financial system and goal set by the Government, perhaps even unconsciously, but when you look at what we are in charge of and what we all finance, I am absolutely sure that the Central Bank does not approve of any part of it. This law introduces a newspaper. It's a key question for us, and that's what, there's no day without a few texts showing up, what course should be, so you'll find half the analysts and businessmen who say the course is overrated, and the second half will say that the course is underestimated. We had a very characteristic situation that Mr. Jelasic was the most aggressive official until he resigned, and from the moment he resigned, all those who attacked him said he was a dam for exchange rate stability. We now have a situation, this part is unchanged, since the course, policy and course regime determines the NBS with the consent of the Government and that part is unchanged, and now from the jurisdiction of the governors, or the Monetary Committee, it is transferred to the NBS Council. I don't think that's good. We believe that the previous solution was better, for the simple reason that the influence of politics in the Council is far greater than at the level of the governors. Although we will say that the law has a number of provisions, colleagues will talk about it in the follow-up to this debate, which speaks of independence and independence, and incompatibility of functions and everything else, it is clear that the influence of politics on the governor is far less than it will be and than it is on the members of the Council. Instead of the Monetary Committee, the Executive Board shall be formed. I think it is a better name, although it is not too important, to me personally it was much more suited to the term – Monetary Committee, because the Executive Board is something that has a commercial bank. The central bank, however, is something completely different from the commercial bank, even though it is declarative, it would be good if that part differs. It is possible, as a member of the law defines, if there are certain urgent matters, that the governor makes a decision on behalf of the Executive Board. In doing so, meetings of the Executive Board shall be held once a month, and it shall be said, if there is a prevention of certain members from attending, then the Governor may make a decision if the achievement of the objectives and the performance of the functions of the National Bank is compromised. If it is a risky situation, if there is an urgent problem and cannot meet the Executive Board, then the Governor assumes responsibility, and it is said below, that in the first next session within a month, the Executive Board can confirm or put out one such decision. I think it's a very dangerous solution for the governor, because if it's a critical situation, then the answer to the critical situation is a critical answer. And what happens if, say, that committee finds that the decision wasn't good? And according to this, as it says here, nothing happens. I'm not sure there should be a situation where three members can't meet, if they're a collective body, or more clearly define a situation in which that decision can be annulled afterwards, and all decisions taken by the Central Bank also have an impact on the entire financial system, on insurance, on the banking system. Special news is Article 19. Article 19 provides for a different way of running for governor. There are different models in countries in the world, there are no two same models. We have so far had the situation to do so by the Finance Committee, now proposed by the President of the Republic. I agree that the solution so far has not been good enough and that there has been certain shortcomings, so I guess we're making the law because we have a better solution. If we are already going for a better solution and we are going for a solution in the spirit of democracy, then why didn't we go one step further, so if we want to strengthen the function of the National Bank and if our goal is to strengthen the function of governor, then why does the candidate for governor not submit his programme to the National Assembly at the session in which he is elected? He needs to go out and present his program. As soon as Mr. Jelasic resigned, we had a large number of statements from party officials who said, there are more candidates for the governor, we talk to them, we wait for him to present his programme, and we will go out with his candidate. And if we want the governor to be independent, then I guess we need the Assembly to present its programme to the party officials. The second thing, what is lacking in our democracy, the proposed legal solution does not foresee at all the possibility of the governor not being elected. What happens if the governor doesn't get elected? It's in the spirit of democracy. The President of the Republic proposes a solution, I guess MPs vote on their conscience on the basis of the programme. The law would have to say, in case the governor is not elected, a new candidate will be proposed within 30 days. It's in the spirit of democracy. I don't suppose there's any one-mindedness here, and there's no vote in the dictatorship. A team before we had the situation that the governor, or candidate for governor, and we will see if the president of the Republic will remain on the proposal, the Prime Minister suggested, because the prime minister said he was a candidate for Governor Mr. Soskic. In what capacity he did it and what authority the Prime Minister is in all this, I don't know. We have proposed an amendment that we suggest that the governor propose his programme to the National Assembly, because we believe that the governor's question should not be just a personal question, but we must choose the governor on the basis of his programme. If that's a program thing, then MPs will vote for him on the basis of the program. The law reduces the number of vice governors and is proposed from two to four vice governors. We think it's not bad if it's regulated by the Statute of the National Bank and that's a good solution, so before the Statute comes to the Assembly's attention, each of the vice governors has clearly defined powers, because the way the Executive Board of Vice-Governers has been defined has far more power than they have now. The Executive Board, consisting of governors and vice governors, makes decisions by majority of votes, has much more jurisdiction than under the previous law and, if that is the case, it would be logical when the Governor proposes candidates for the Vice Governor's Council, they are elected by the Board of Governors, to state exactly what their arguments are. Governor Jelasic pointed out that the law introduces a significant newspaper, which is the report by the National Assembly, which is true. Several members of the law are introducing and taxing what all the obligations are in reporting to the National Assembly by the National Bank. That's what my colleague Mr. Colakovic was talking about. It would be good to predict, one of our amendments predicts, that a session will be held once a year at which the governor will address the National Assembly with some of the main objectives or a draft plan for next year. It is also being introduced, and this has been the case so far, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted its opinion on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, but it would be good for the National Assembly to have the opinion delivered by the National Bank to the Government, in order to simply have an insight into what the relationship is and what the position of the National Bank is on such an important issue, regarding macroeconomic policy and on the memorandum on economic policy and on the budget as well. The important change is about borrowing. There is no longer a possibility of funding for short-term liquidity by the National Bank of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. However, there is one problem. Members were left with the possibility that the National Bank would be in debt on its own behalf. Is the National Bank part of the Republic of Serbia or not? Does it have anything to do with the government or not? The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, unfortunately, says something quite different, Article 93. The constitution: "Republic of Serbia, Autonomous provinces and units of local self-government can be in debt. '"Where's the National Bank? On the other hand, when we look at official borrowing statistics, on the one hand, the Ministry of Finance, on the other hand, the National Bank. I don't agree with that at all. In these two examples I have, one is 31 March 2010, as regards the National Bank, and the other is 30 April 2010, as regards the Ministry of Finance, when I only talk about external public debt. The difference is no less than two billion and 700m euros. Is it possible that in the Republic of Serbia we have different statistics? In one case, the external public debt – 7.5 billion, and the other is 4 billion and 700m euros. On the other hand, what's going on with the IMF deal? The Serbian Parliament has never discussed the arrangement because it is the signatories of the National Bank, and when it was once in the National Assembly, the Prime Minister told us that it is not actually a credit, that it is not a debt, that it is money to strengthen foreign reserves, and that they are only changing their form. Let's say, when you intervene on the foreign exchange market, then you change the euro into dinars and then you actually still have dinars, so it's no problem to return. Now you explain to us – is it possible that an agreement has been reached with the IMF that when the time of payment comes we can return the dinars? Do they now want to receive these dinars or will there be a situation when the time comes to return those billions and some euros – will we then, again, have a problem with course and destabilisation as we have now? Obviously, the problem with this imbalance is more than clearly expressed. What's a fact, that's that you're the only one in the financial sector who says there's no cheap money. Whenever a loan is explained, they tell us – all money is cheap. Let me tell you an anecdote about two economists, once in front of a pension and a very young one with a college degree. They are walking the Prince of Michael, from the National Bank to the Serbian Parliament. The younger one bends down and says: 5,000 dinars stand in the street. The older one grabs him and says, "Wait, that's not true, you see how many people there are, if it were a five thousand bill, someone would have taken it a long time ago, it's imagination. Therefore, there is no cheap money. That's what we need to point out in every situation. That's what the National Bank alone pointed out. When we look at what has been happening in the last few months since Governor Jelasic resigned and we closely follow what happened to the course, then it is a very clear answer to the question why Governor Jelasic resigned. And as for the independence of the institutions and the reputation of the National Bank and the relationship to the National Bank, more than anything, the fact is that no governor in the last ten years, including Mr Jelasic, has left office by running out of office, all have been either replaced or resigned. So much for independence and independence. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41445	National MP Vlajko Senic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41446	Mr Jelasic, respected presidents, respected MPs, before I speak of certain individual provisions of this law that I think are good, the predecessors have already spoken very well of it, I would like to make a brief political review and I would say that the National Bank is, and we as MPs must recognise it, in a period, somewhere, at the end of 2008, and ensure the stability of the financial system in Serbia. Unfortunately, no one's going to say it publicly. I remember as a folk MP, though, sitting in that second building, several hundred meters from here, panic calls from the National Assembly's pay phone at the time of the escalation of the global economic and financial crisis, about how Serbia is threatened by a financial breakdown, how banks do not have to pay more than 500 euros, how lines are being made, and how Serbia is approaching that period before 2000, when banks did not serve to save money, but to steal it. I think it's important that we all remind ourselves together that the best policy is the one that delivers results, and in a very difficult temptation then the NBS policy has produced results. I think that we are one of the most successful countries in the region, as far as the banking system is concerned, and that through this difficult crisis, we have shown that what has been done in the past ten years, with different major or less objections, is something that may be the most successful reform that has happened in Serbia in the past ten years. Simply, the challenges the banking system faced showed that it survived and that it was completely the opposite of what it represented before 2000. So it was then a black hole in this society and this economy, and today it represents one, I would say, of the most stable points, and I think citizens see and respect it. Also, I think it's, uh, it's time to say, to a large extent, the merits of the work of all NBS governors since 2000, so here we go. The position of the NBS and its independence also depends on these acts that we will adopt, but I would say, depends on our mutual will that the NBS, as MPs, as members of the government, as businessmen, is truly an independent institution. The policy led by the NBS cannot and will never be able to satisfy all individual interests in this country. It is impossible for all of them to be satisfied and those who have been in debt over the past period, and not thinking about the fall in the value of national currency, of course, of course, have secured the loans in some way and paid them in euros, here I am talking first of all about people who deal in business, of course, and citizens, can't be satisfied with what I think, and maybe this law is going to change it, not enough of the basic role of the NBS. So it's not the NBS institution that meets them every day and determines that the course of the dinar is that big and that big. NBS, and it's good that this law explicitly states that it is an institution that has to take care of price stability. NBS independence is a means of keeping the NBS in line with price stability. It's not about the independence of the NBS to write it down in some law and that we here, as MPs, repeat it for each other. So it's just a means for the National Bank of Serbia to take care of price stability. It is not the purpose of the independence of the National Bank of Serbia to write it down in some law and to repeat it here as MPs. It is only a means to achieve a basic goal, which is stability in Serbia. This law also made it clear that the main instrument through which price stability, namely targeted inflation, is the reference rate. Because of this, it is important that we as MPs, as well as the National Bank as an institution, through the process of communication with citizens clearly state what their role is. In the last few months, we've been facing a decline in the value of dinars, in one, I'd say, quite a skillful way. The majority of the dissatisfaction in this regard is directed towards the National Bank of Serbia. Like I said, it's not a daily offer and demand devising something dictated by the National Bank. The foreign exchange market functions as well as any other market, and this role of the National Bank can be as said in the proposal for this new law, to limit in the system of the fluctuating exchange rate, i.e. some kind of corrective factor for daily course oscillation. I think it's important, and it needs a hundred times, a thousand times here, that stability is the price and targeted inflation of the National Bank of Serbia mission, and that then comes stability of the financial system and contributes to the implementation of the government's economic policy. The government has interests in growing industrial production, increasing employment, reducing unemployment, increasing wages, but these are goals that can sometimes conflict with what is the policy of the National Bank of Serbia. That is why it is good for us to further ensure the independence of the National Bank of Serbia with this law. I want to look back at, and I would say, the biggest dilemma that exists in public, and it concerns the way in which the exchange rate regime is determined under this new law. I think it would be good for Mr Jelasic to inform us of the support, for example, international financial organisations, the IMF, the system of European and central banks and others about the way that the triangle was arranged between the National Bank of Serbia's National Bank Council, the governor and the National Bank Executive Board. It is the triangle within which the exchange rate regime is formed, as is said, at the proposal of the Executive Board, the Board of Governors, with the government's consent, determines the exchange rate regime. It seems quite simple in the bill, but if we all look together at the Executive Board, in fact, the Governor plus Vice-Governors, that the National Bank Council - five members we choose on a proposal from the Finance Committee, that the Government is 25 ministers and 10 political parties, then there can be one concern about what the process and mechanism of forming the exchange rate regime is. I believe that transparency in funding the exchange rate regime is a step forward and will relax those attacks that have so far been focused on the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. Someone has noticed this well – I think the course has been moving more percentageally since the governor officially resigned, and there is no such thing as a big hack in the media. Therefore, it is important for the public to be informed, first of all, professional, because part of this professional public has credibility, these people have the credibility to present their doubts, about how this formula is applied and what the role of all these bodies within this law is. What was also interesting to me, which is that the Council is also making a decision on the exchange rate regime by voting, and there is no "golden vote" of the governor in the Council. The council has five members, and there can be at least three. There may be a theoretical situation for the Council to attend four Council members. I don't know how the Council will choose the exchange rate regime if the vote is 2:2, but I suppose there's a solution to that as well. In any case, concrete changes to this law are a step forward in determining the independence and independence of the National Bank of Serbia's institution and I think there are several very important things that guarantee that the National Bank will be an institution that has complete independence. In my view, the most important provision is an explicit ban on the government's monetary financing, in general, of all levels of government in Serbia. It is clear that the National Bank of Serbia cannot and is forbidden to finance the public sector. I think it is good that this explicit provision is clearly included in the proposal for a law on the National Bank of Serbia. It is important that in the part concerning the intervention of the National Bank of Serbia on the foreign market, it is very clear, I will read it, in order to be absolutely accurate – that interventions on the foreign market are carried out to implement monetary policy and in line with the established dinar course regime. Therefore, not as has been the bill so far, interventions on the foreign exchange market are being carried out to direct the course of the dinars, but in line with the established regime of the dinar course, interventions on the foreign market are being carried out. So focus is monetary policy and price stability, not dinar course. This is important, I repeat again, because every Serbian citizen must know that in the course formation process, which hurts all citizens of Serbia, the National Bank of Serbia is just one link to the whole process and we cannot take all responsibility to the National Bank. If the economy is in decline, if we have a decline in the social product, if we have less direct investment, if we have a higher degree of borrowing, it is quite logical that all these economic things that are happening in the real economy are being poured into the foreign exchange market somewhere and it is quite logical that the National Bank of Serbia cannot, contrary to economic movements in Serbia, waste foreign reserves to defend some course that is not real. And that's why it's important, too, so I think it would be good if Mr Jelasic told us more about the intensity of the daily exchange rate defence, not the defence of the exchange rate, but the intervention of the foreign exchange market, because there are also more in the media, and of those who know it, and most often of all of those who have no idea, is talking about a catastrophic scenario – that we are going towards the full exhaustion of foreign reserves and that this can lead to dramatic results. So, what is the pace and intervention on the foreign exchange market in terms of spending foreign reserves, what is the rate of the inflow, because of course there is an inflow, there is not only an outflow of foreign reserves and what is the projection by the end of the year, with which we can count on the amount of money that the National Bank of Serbia can intervene on the foreign market. What was important for me and the G17 Group of MPs plus was that it explicitly introduced a provision on salaries of employees in the National Bank of Serbia, that these salaries are linked to the banking sector, that at some point we have to step out of some, I would say, but I would say, demagogy and to enable people who work in the state administration to do professional jobs, to get paid properly, to keep people or attract them to work in the state sector. I am sorry that we did not apply that logic to the State Auditing Institution, where we could also justify more salaries, for example, by making them in line with the salaries in Serbia's audit sector, and these salaries are, believe me, much more than what is in our State Auditing Institution. The bill no doubt represents a step forward and represents and enables much more transparency in the work of the National Bank of Serbia, and is a very important member of Article 2(4), which says: "The state authorities and organisations, as well as other persons, cannot endanger the independence and independence of the National Bank of Serbia, nor can they influence the National Bank of Serbia, the authorities of the National Bank of Serbia and members of these bodies in the performance of their functions. "If this Article 2 were to be retroactively applied, I think there would be a lot of those who in the past have tried to do exactly what this Article 2 of Section 4 forbids. It's a good thing that's clearly said now. We give full support that this works in practice as well. The only thing we do not know is how this will be done in practice, in terms of who it is that can assess whether it is a state body, whether an organization or an individual person has affected the work of the National Bank and has disrupted its independence. Except for one of our common awareness that the National Bank should do its own work, I don't see which other guarantee can provide it. The question of the National Bank Council and the influence of political parties has also been raised here. I think the best proof that it was almost not or that it was minimal is the fact that now, practically, it's not official yet, but it's more than certain, we're bringing into place the new governor of the National Bank and we're likely to support a man who's currently head of the National Bank Council. I have not heard that anyone has expressed any objection to his expertise, but I would say that it does not seem logical to me that after ten years and all that has happened positively, I am talking about this financial sector in Serbia, any ruling party may think that the National Bank Council delegates people who would have no mission here, that in the name and account of any political party affecting the course. I don't think that's how it works, I'm not so naive that I think the course will be formed in some ideal conditions, and there aren't many people who will be interested in affecting the mechanism and the role of the National Bank in the whole process, but we're voting for a new law here, we're going to choose a new governor, we're going to choose transparent members of the Finance Committee, members of the National Bank Council, five people who are still looking for a certain quality in the draft of this law, the exact same qualities of a man who should be headed by the National Bank of Serbia, plus one member who has to have experience in accounting and audit. And until that moment, we have the right to present all our doubts to both the candidate for governor and the candidate for members of the Council and to question them here in the Assembly and ask what their intentions are, what their knowledge is and what their expertise is, but once that review has to stop. If the Assembly as a competent authority to support people who need to be in certain functions for six years, it is very easy to calculate that another government will also have to deal with the people we choose to be members of the council and to be governor of the National Bank of Serbia, then we must assume the elementary independence, expertise and ability of these people to do their job. So our role is in law-making, our role is in the eventual acceptance of some amendments. I believe the government will hear about the good amendments. Our role is in selecting individuals or banks for amendments, but our role ends when we give trust to people to do their job and that is quite logical and that is the essence of the independence of the personal, financial and any other National Bank of Serbia, and that would end it. It is all in our hands, and the vote of this law, but also the awareness that in this way we leave all these ingenuities to the people who will choose this assembly and that we should have an elementary confidence that they will do their job well and quality. I am convinced that what has been happening at the National Bank of Serbia in the last ten years is the best guarantee that they will, regardless of who is personally in charge or in the Council, continue to work and that is why we will, of course, support this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41447	Thank you. National MP Zoran Krasic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41448	Many of the things you've heard, respected citizens, you can freely forget, as if they weren't said. I'll remind you, the simplest job you can do is to be governor of the National Bank. In the history of the Republic of Serbia, the best and most successful governors were people who were not economists. The best and most successful governors were people who weren't economists! In Serbia, the best bankers are people who are not economists. You remember Mr. Kostic, the deceased, he was a machine engineer, and Borka Vukic was a lawyer. This is what I'm telling you to do to simply remove that fog -- waist, waist, waist. What black waist? There's no "s" on the waist. And Mr Jelasic, through our congress there in America, was their student, chosen to prepare him, etc. You remember in 2000 what kind of profession was needed, someone put a sock on his head and went into the bank. There's no profession. The profession is represented there by the vice governor, the director of the department, etc. There's no profession with the governor. What's the National Bank? It's a state body. What state organ? I'm a stand-alone guy. Is she independent? It's not! The constitution says you can't be independent. And what's been going on with our National Bank since 2000? She's acting like a third government. They have the exclusive right to negotiate and negotiate. Our banks wiped out, came this way. The pay traffic is with foreigners! Who controls that pay traffic? Governor! End of story. What waist? What are we talking about? Do you remember the sunflower that started in 2003? A new governor was to be chosen, Cory Widowsky. And that's when this concept came that the governor was proposing a Finance Committee. Nenad Bogdanovic was the chairman of the Committee. And that's when you pulled yourself together as a coalition. Kori Udovicki, the worst governor in Serbia's history! Who do they account for? No one. According to this, in order to promote practice, they more correspond to a Vienna Agreement, the IMF and the headquarters of Europe's largest banks, and it would be no wonder that they have fantastic statistical results on the stability of the course, and that people die in the streets. Mr. Jelasic, you're a world recordman, at a time when you, governor of Serbia, are quite in charge. More of us now, like this, "Fildjan Serbia" are in charge than the former SFRY. Foreign banks, please tell me which is the domestic bank? If it's domestic, the governor takes the license. It started with Mladjan Dinkic. How many times has the Federal Court in the administrative dispute annulled the governor's decisions? You never wanted to act on the federal court's decision. The same thing you have continued, and now you are asking (in the position of the 2nd member) that if the administrative court invalidates your solution that there is no way of metrically solving it, only you can solve it. Well, how can he do that? You don't recognize this country's judiciary. Which judiciary do you confess? No, the administrative court will be empowered to measurely resolve the issue from your jurisdiction because you do not want to resolve it. What happened over the past few years? Insurance companies with them, investment funds, life insurance, financial leases. Where's the money?- I'm sorry. Everything at the National Bank, and control and all other functions. So, what's the government asking? What kind of economic policy can it run when the National Bank policy defines the IMF and someone else or the interests of the owner of capital in Serbia? Unfortunately, it's just an attempt at reform and it's purposely designed to be halfway, let's be, something, that the president proposes, because it has a basis in the Constitution and that we stop there, but that the National Bank has its own property. Well, how is that possible? I don't know, Lalich, who could have written this?- I'm sorry. How could this go through with the legislation? Is there a state body that has its own property? There isn't. Property rights are exercised, on behalf of the Republic of Serbia, by which authority. But no, you put in the game – assets, capital, etc., etc. Where's your foreign reserve? What's with all the foreign exchange reserves? What's he doing with us?- I'm sorry. How much did you contribute not to doing anything?- I'm sorry. Now someone's boasting about it, and now some Shoskic will come. Well, he's in conflict of interest before someone even wrote that he's a candidate. Well, how can the President of the National Bank Council be at the same time an economic adviser to the Prime Minister, please explain to me where it can be, more?- I'm sorry. What country can it be in? You're talking about some kind of expertise. Well, that Kovacevic of yours was on that council, he's a mathematician, he's not an economist, he's a statistic mathematician. So you had a solution, without the Council there was no solution. Oh, he can't. If he chooses the National Assembly, the National Assembly will be resolved. Who controls the banks? Ask a question to the National Bank of Serbia about the situation in the account of a legal person at a bank. He says we don't have that information. How is that possible? Well, how is that possible? But, eagle untouchable, for God's sake, it's the National Bank, please, you have to qualify to knock on the door. Untouchable, great experts. Well, more expertise needs a Perry Locator than a governor's man. Money is like any other slave. Well, the banks were created on the market, too, when one realized that instead of money, he could write a certificate. What are we talking about here? For months, he's been making some preparations. In this country, man has become manipulative, resigning, and the exalted head comes to the National Assembly. That's what Milko Stimac does, and that's what Governor Jelasic does. Did you resign? You took it. Well, go home, what are you gonna do? No, the law says - until a new one is chosen, I am in office. Well, why did you resign, then? And now we make little gods, when it was this, it was like this, when it was that, it was like that, and we all broke. Everything's broken except your lawn mower and your villa. They said they'd buy it under the same conditions as you bought it. You know, people come on the side, there's no puppy to bite them for, Djelic comes in with bags, and after two years, 11 million. Please. And we make 126. That's how it was, Srdjan, he admitted it himself. I didn't say anything, I'm just stating the facts for comparison. Who's representing this country? Do any of the state officials love this country, do they like the work that they do, do they commit themselves to this job for the sake of this people and this state? Nah, my people, it's just wax figurines with halo, this bought out those newspapers, this bought out these newspapers, ordered some economists there. It was once expelled from the government, not to enter such an economist. Today, economic analysts are people who don't have a degree in economics. Medojevic has an electrician or something, this Prophetic is a sociologist. What the hell, people, aman? Everything it uses to be the most correct – the National Bank of Serbia is the property of the Republic of Serbia! And there's nothing more to talk about. These improvisations of yours on the subject - we'll take the foreign exchange funds, so we'll keep those foreign funds as a reserve. Where - in America, England, France? And why did we get so much foreign money? Well, if there's any change or instability in course, we'll sell it. Why sell that? In order to pull the Hipo Alpe Adria Bank, because it broke up on that project about the Universal, the apartments don't sell, they're falling apart, and the tycoons have to stay. Mr. Jelasic, you know that one man owed, took a 50 million loan, which was impossible, and you keep quiet, you don't care. Why? Where are you allowed to hit the Intensa Bank and wipe you out of Draginja? You won't be sitting in King Peter for five minutes! Well, we know that. I took part in the adoption of the first National Bank Act, in this room, in this place in 1993, so I thought, my people, Spanish villages, something complicated. Oh, what's so complicated? Nothing complicated. The easiest thing to do is trade money. Well, there's proof on the streets of "devisions, foreign exchanges," so these big exchanges. Everyone knows how to trade money, and who knows how to do something. That's what this is about. I'm going a little wide on purpose, because we've submitted 40 amendments, so we'll have plenty of time to explain some solutions. This should come back, because it started with something half-way, and that's what I have to say, to satisfy the President of the Republic, that he has the right to be a proposing, which I don't argue is in accordance with the Constitution, because this solution that is now, that the Committee on Finance is proposing to the National Assembly of Governors, it's a crazy solution, because that Committee doesn't even have a legal personality, but it's just the working body of the National Assembly, it doesn't have its identity. I don't know how it could work, but this job was done when it took Cori Udovicki to come and when Mr Jelasic was supposed to be here for the first time. And these are modern European fluids. You see, they haven't endured the test of this modern European fluid. And then, under that law, under that Constitution, it was illegal in 2003. Look at the stenograms, I repeat the same thing I've been saying. Next, why isn't the Council a second-degree organ inside the NBS? The NBS Financial Business Supervisory Authority? Do you know what the financial business of the NBS means? I make money, so when I make money, I can write whatever I want, and income and expenses, and plus and minus. Isn't that right? Make sure it's not like that. One year minus, two years plus. What's changed? Nothing. They're not going to be second-degree organs, not, but, some, supervisory etc. What's the solution? You can choose the governor here under the new law, but you can't get rid of him. Why? Because the Council assesses whether the conditions are met, well, if the conditions are met, he sends, if the conditions are not met, he is silent. That's impossible. The organ chooses and cannot resolve. We tried against Jelasic, I ran the procedure twice and everything got stuck in the Council. And running away from Dafina and Jazda, we're hit by an elite conservatory. Isn't that right, Mr. Jelasic? When there was an affair with that "elite-saver," did the savings bank, at least it doesn't matter, do you know what the governor says? "It's not in my jurisdiction. "Do you know what the Ministry of Finance says? "It's not in our jurisdiction either. "Those poor people say, how true, I don't know, 400m euros are gone. They filed criminal charges, the D.A. says, well, if we catch him, there'll be something. We're going exactly according to what used to be, maybe you don't know, you're young people, there was some savings bank from Paracino, the bank, I guess "Inos," there was this guy Bora Kostic, the famous director, and when they hit him, these guys, to get the money back, he says, "As soon as I turn it around, I'll get them back." "It was that expert in Vranjska Banja, I hear he's returning something now, from his debt. Now we've made the bankers look like geniuses. You see, "As soon as I turn them around, I'll return them right away. "It is also said by Mr. Jelasic, only in a slightly different way, since he is from the North, and this poor Bora, down from Paracino. The difference in diction, the accent, but the same message, exactly the same. Mr. Jelasic, NBS, I agree, is responsible for price stability, I absolutely agree. I've had so much trouble at work with those prices, I could talk to you for 16 days. There was nothing I could do when the NBS could print money and do whatever they wanted. I could've just sat on the bench and cried. There was nothing we could do. When Vlatkovic makes money, the whole market goes to hell. But, please, I appreciate it. You have repeatedly openly warned citizens not to be in charge, to take care of how they are in charge, etc. Too much authority in our National Bank, too big! So, the complete financial system is practically in the National Bank. What's the insurance company control gonna do? What's the investment fund control gonna do? What's the use of controlling voluntary pension funds? What's he gonna do? Just a classic monetary area and banking. Run away from other things! That shouldn't be with you. You have made the third government in the Republic of Serbia and because of these relations with foreign bankers, with the IMF, none of these can tell you – aman, wait a minute to look at what's going on, something needs to live in this Serbia. How are we doing with the fine statistic? There's no point in fine statistics. The SRS is one of the few parties that absolutely supported you to keep as much of that course as possible. Why? Well, all our citizens have these obligations calculated in euros. So if the euro goes crazy, people won't even have bread. Learn how to get into that ambis. Internal over-indebtedness. No one can talk about it in this country, no one can talk about it. Which is an ambis, only, that blocks us so we can't lift our heads. I don't know, I just don't understand why the Council isn't the second-degree body of the National Bank. There was a big dilemma – whether this executive board, regardless of its name, should be a management-co-operation team by its composition, or should it reflect something that could even be a conflict? Why am I saying this? Sometimes, for example, the vice governors were elected to the National Assembly on a proposal from the governor. The governor was elected to the Federal Assembly, to be precise, on a proposal from the President of the Republic. I agree, it was a federal state, two republics, so maybe that relationship was, but at one point it was desirable to hear a little different opinion in that group between four vice governors and governors, and to get away with it. Today, we really support the concept that the governor with the vice governors should be a team, because if he's not a team, then there's no job, but the bills have to be made to the National Assembly. And in order for the National Assembly to be safe, the Council must be the second-degree organ of the NBS. And the Council can't block certain things that go towards the National Assembly. There, you see, how, perhaps, even, beautiful ideas in us in practice turn to the opposite. We've submitted a few dozen amendments. We will try to make the amendments a little more serious and more concrete, which has a little more to do with the profession, I agree, and this in principle debate, we just wanted to do a little digression and to point out that the best bankers in Serbia were not economists, the best governors in Serbia were not economists. Don't make your own name around the National Bank and your positions in the NBS. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41449	The word has been made by MP Dragan Shormaz for five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41450	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law is absolutely not to be supported. Here, and the professional public says, we can see it in the media, that the law is such that it introduces politics into the NBS. It's nothing new, it's a practice with this executive power. She's politically trying, and largely succeeds in controlling independent regulatory bodies. We saw what happened to the independent judiciary. There's no "n," and there's no justice. That's not just what the professional public says, people's MPs say, the European Commission says. We are full of the EU's mouth, and the European Commission says the whole process should go back, i.e. At the beginning. You know, you've been dealing with this already, for more than a month, you've had this problem and you've been trying to solve it, so this NBS bill bill hasn't surprised me, and even some of the authorities have heard some stories about how it's all good in Serbia, how it's managed to stabilize. We heard from the Prime Minister that Serbia came out of the crisis, though, statistically, without the people feeling it. On the other hand, just a few days ago, the president of Europe's largest government, Mrs Merkel, says - there is no getting out of this economic crisis! It also says that the German state and the German economy must adapt to new conditions for the country's making; that the state must become cheaper, that banks must change the way they work, that they must all get used to much less earnings than they have so far been, profits, dividends, etc. Angela Merkel says one thing, and in Serbia, what kind of a crisis we've already ended up with. It is also said by serious economic analysts in the United States who announce that in 2012, there will be a new blow and a new economic crisis, when all these subsidies come toll, which were given in the previous year. What is the situation in Serbia? In 2008, it was the worst of macroeconomic indicators of external trade in Serbia. In 2009, there was a significant reduction in imports, leading to a reduction in the payment deficit. In 2008 and 2009, the dinar weakened 20%, causing major losses in the exchange rate gaps in many businesses, among all businesses in Serbia. It's a worse situation now, because it's already been half a year. What's the solution? What's the exchange rate policy? As we heard, we should not move to a fixed foreign exchange or to the euro, as it would not have an impact on reducing the inflation rate would continue to worsen the poor position of the Serbian economy. The scenario was applied in some countries in the environment, whether a fixed course, whether to move to the euro, Montenegro, Bulgaria, Bosnia and Herzegovina and did not stabilise the currency. It's a stable currency, but it's not a stable economy and prices are on the rise all the time. A flexible exchange rate today is impossible, apparently, to preserve. Yesterday, that 80m euros was released. All of this is expected and related to future depression, leading to price hikes. You can see that. And, of course, we're being threatened by some kind of hyperinflation, probably not like the 1990s, but we see what's been going on lately. What's the solution? The solution is one that has a large number of EU member states, which are much more stable than those we see with problems, such as Greece, Spain, Portugal, which is a policy of flexible belt. In other words, the Central Bank should control the course through a flexible belt mechanism at an interval plus minus minus, say, 5% and only when the interval is compromised, then intervene on the foreign exchange market, but that is something that would allow companies to plan a business year and not fear a change in course. About what foreign reserves are and what needs to be done on this issue, whether we should keep them this way when we can use them, by all estimates just how much they are, for the next three years, and by theory it takes three months, I'll say when we move on to the amendments, according to the amendments they've submitted, in the time that I'm at my disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41451	The word was sought by Governor Radovan Jelasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41452	Dear Members, first of all, I thank you for all the remarks you've made. I would start from the beginning, first of all, Mr. Colakovic said, so the National Bank has several times launched an initiative to make her voice more taken into account and that she has direct communication with the Assembly and that she exhibits much more often. It depends solely on different committees. The National Bank has always been prepared to come at the invitation of individual committees to explain what is going on in the macroeconomic sector, what is going on in the negotiations with the IMF, etc. Also, as far as Mr Zoran Kasalovic is concerned, I can only confirm that all that concerns the ban on monetary financing is one of the key things that are listed in this law and which are crucial to achieving price stability. The moment the National Bank buys some securities from the state's worth, that's when we make money. I'll talk about this later, about the remarks of another MP. Very short, just, the answer to Mrs. Pesic. Why didn't it get so public? First of all, we felt that there were not so many fundamental changes in this law that it would take one too long debate. On the other hand, all the changes mentioned in these laws are certainly in line with IMF representatives. And that's why there's been a certain delay, and that's why it took, more or less, to remind ourselves, we also have a legally undertaken obligation as part of the IMF programme. All that about the amendments and the key laws, certainly to hear their word, and regarding the course regime, I'd like to take a later look at each other's remarks. As for Mrs Tabakovic's remarks, I would like to say explicitly once again that the National Bank has respected each time, and of course every time and acted on every court's decision. As for the consumption of these reportedly, one billion and one hundred and eighty million, close to one billion and two hundred million euros, to remind ourselves that every time the National Bank sells foreign exchanges, it does not sell for pears or apples, but sells for dinars. It automatically reduces the amount of money in circulation. Of course, it automatically works the same at the same time and disinflation. Let's just remind ourselves, almost half of that amount of money, about 500 million bought from the National Bank from the Government of the Republic of Serbia at the end of last year, so that all commitments based on the budget, which was voted here in this assembly around 30 December of last year. That's when the state came to us. She sold us foreign exchanges, both the money she received from the IMF and the money she received from the EU. For that money, of course, we gave them dinars. Instead of taking them out to the market once and creating enormous turbulence on that market, we gradually sold them slowly to ensure stability. Let's remind ourselves, the national bank's reserve level today is about 10.7 billion. Just to remind ourselves, I really appreciate the assumptions and assurances of certain MPs who impose such great authority on the governor, but neither I nor the National Bank negotiates with the IMF. I am one of the signatures of the Memorandum that is signed with the IMF. In addition, he is also the prime minister and the finance minister. That memo is passed by the government. The process is very transparent. There is no memorandum that, following the adoption by the IMF, was not a site, both in English and in Serbian. One more time, it's not the National Bank that's negotiating with the IMF. You're assuming it's us who's running this whole procedure. There's probably been a lot more program with the IMF before and a lot more. As far as the court taxis are concerned, we're paying for them. As far as, very briefly as ZINA is concerned, I really expected that someone might even commend us, that the National Bank played a key role in entering the White Schengen list at the end of December of last year. We bought out all the equipment that stood unpacked for three years. We've taken the responsibility. Even though we knew what would happen after all, and what criticism we would get, because of taking over the production of passports, we deliberately entered the business. We've produced over two million passports so far. These are one of the best passports on which so far there has been no single objection, nor have there been any ID cards and everything else ZIN produces, now in much more commercially, and to a large extent also abroad. We're certainly proud of it. As for the use of people's ignorance, I'm sure that esteemed citizens understand much better, not only what is the basic function of the National Bank, but how it works. I just want one simple thing to explain, I hope to succeed, is that the intern who wants to enter the National Bank, if he were wrong, would probably be on the street within five minutes. When the National Bank emits securities of value, we act disinflatively. We're pulling the money. Once again, we're broadcasting records of value. That's what we give to institutions, investors. They give us dinars for that. I was saying that inflation, once again, I think that if someone responds to the entrance exam at the economic college, they probably won't accept it, except from the entrance. In this law, it is now explicitly said that the National Bank, to remind ourselves of what inflation is – inflation is when the state emits securities of value. When records of value buy you out by the National Bank, the government and the government spend it. So far, every time the National Bank gave the government money, we did it exclusively, we're talking about the National Bank, when they gave us the foreign exchanges, which is why we gave them the dinars. That's inflation if we didn't have any basis, if the government knocked on us and said, "Good afternoon, good day, here, I need money, here's some paper ten, twenty billion, you give us that money, and we'll spend it." Now, that's, like, the simplest thing, inflation. To remind ourselves, the vault records issued by the Republic Government, they are not sold to the National Bank, but sold to other business banks, natural persons, businesses, and they are the ones who buy it. Also, there's no talking about inflation. As for virtual financial products, etc., I think that all those citizens who use financial services, who perhaps seven, eight years ago with a non-believer, saw whether they could even get financial products, it became quite normal, as with a baker selling bread, as with a butcher selling meat, as well as that there is credit in the bank. As for the profits, the National Bank, since there was no coverage of its loss in previous years by the government, has used some of the profits in the past year, as well as in the previous year, to cover previous losses, but regardless of which, we made a profit out of our business without exchange rates, some, four billion. Of which 2.5 billion were paid into the budget of the Republic of Serbia, already, there, about two months ago. As far as the suggestions, namely the opinion of Mr Obradovic, are concerned, I want only here, once again, explicitly to point out, it is very good that the National Bank has a legally prescribed goal. To remind myself, I don't know if there's any law that says what the government has to do. I think it's very good that there's one such law for the National Bank. Once again, it explicitly says, this is your first goal, i.e. the primary goal is price stability, in addition to the stability of the banking sector, and thirdly is co-operation with the government. Of course, since the National Bank has only one and only one and the primary goal, and the Government has, depending on which, when and in what conditions, different objectives, here, of course, there can be different gaps. As for differences in debt statistics, I want to point out here that the National Bank is using the IMF methodology, that methodology used in all countries. Of course the debt to the IMF is part of the public debt. This difference, as it is conducted and the methodology between the Ministry of Finance and the NBS, has lasted longer. Once again, we use the IMF methodology, and the debt to the IMF is included there, and we literally lead the public debt volume on the principle that we follow what laws this valued house adopts and therefore fill out the forms and calculate what the liabilities of the foreign currency will be – euro, dollars in the upcoming period of time. By contrast, we have a legally required obligation to follow up on all matters concerning the private sector. The private sector has an obligation to report to us and the state as such does not, although we follow it from what decisions are made in the Assembly. It's just a very short one. As for the respect of the NBS and the program with the IMF, that's what I said, it's here, as it would say – who hairs, it's the government, and in the end, the NB is the one he's carrying. It is known here on whose shoulders are largely one program with the IMF. Mr. Vlajko Senic, only very briefly, as regards course and course regimes, our proposal was to remind ourselves that our regime is currently 'handled by swimming', which means that we are trying to put much more importance on this'swimming', but also in the future, as far as the regime is concerned, it will be proposed by the Executive Board and, with the agreement of the Government, will be determined by the NBS Council. We think that for this level, as far as implementing our monetary policy is concerned, this is more than enough. I think it really needs to be pragmatic and to find that one "handled swimming course" leaves us with an opportunity, a wide sphere for your activities, because you can put 5% on the run, 95% on swimming, and you can also set it in another way – and what is key to you. As far as the course is concerned, the course is a picture and an opportunity for everything that happens in Serbia, everything that happens abroad. Let me give you a concrete example, in the last few days, it's certainly the international environment that's making a lot more of a course, at which level it's being established. The government has decided to meet the requirements regarding the fourth revision of the IMF arrangement. It's certainly positive, as well as all the measures that the side is working on, they're certainly positive. So if we stick to this program and there are no external shocks, there are more chances that we have a stronger course in the second half of the year, but I stress, it depends not only on explicitly and only on the program that the government will bring, but, to a large extent, that's the kind of life when you integrate into the world, and on what's happening abroad. As far as intervention is concerned, we have pointed out here several times explicitly. More than once in this country's history, it has been proven that it was not, quite, responsible for defending a certain level of course in the long run, since we all know how it ended. There have already been several attempts to defend a certain level of course. Of course, for the personal and personal profiling of governors, that's always very nice. You walk the Prince of Michael and he says, "This is the emperor, no matter what happens in the world." Let's stick to one fixed level. I'm always saying that I'm too young to build a system that has a certain duration, and it's certain that with a flexible course, no matter how much harder it seems today, on a medium or long term, we'll live much better. As far as Mr Krasic's remarks are concerned, I don't want to get into the details of whether it's difficult, easy, simple or not, just being governor of the NBS is easy. You can only estimate it based on the color of my hair that it was six years ago and how it is today. I would explicitly like to point out that the NBS is not a state body, and in order to achieve its independence it is certainly necessary to have the property, it is one of the key assumptions that you should be independent. As far as the objections to who wiped out this, let me just say, we're not a bank, we're not an insurance company, we're not a licking company, we're not a voluntary retirement fund. We are the ones who oversee, who need to provide one hundred percent security, that all of our citizens who use and service, all those citizens who put their money to sleep peacefully. Once again, what kind of ownership structure will be, we are forbidden to tell the law – we prefer Mika over Zika, domestic, foreign, etc. As far as payment traffic control is concerned, everything about any malfeasances, of course, that there is a law on the prevention of money laundering. The NB has respected all decisions of the court. As for the foreign reserve, from that money Mr. Krasic has in his pocket, I'm sure, in his alarm clock. So we have foreign exchange coverage. Of course, if Mr Krasic should be going on a business trip tomorrow, so when he comes to the bank and says – instead of the dinars, give me some grain I invested in and if he can buy a plane ticket afterwards or buy something in Vienna, Brussels, etc., we, to make a joke, might be able to use it. But I've never met a man who was ready in this country to go to the bank and when he brings his own dinars to answer the bank – you know, those foreign exchanges we gave you those dinars for, now they're employed, put there, you can't use them, come tomorrow, or maybe we can offer you some canoes, some mirror, maybe some iron, lead or itison, choose, here's a long list. I think it was in the 1990s. I don't think that created much trust for our citizens in the banking sector. Just for the end, as far as the advice of being a second-degree organ is concerned, we've had an example in our history that the Council was a second-degree organ. That's how, among other things, the second-degree board of governors returned the Dafiment Bank license. The professional services said we were subtracting, and afterwards the Council decided that it should return it to the bank. It cost taxpayers quite a bit of paper. That's one thing. The second question arises, on the basis of whose opinion the council has again decided, the Council would again appeal to the decisions of the professional service which it has made and such a proposal to withdraw a permit, i.e. to grant a permit, etc., and therefore we have decided to be the court that will have and represent the highest instance. Lastly, what Mr. Shormaz suggested was that this law introduces politics into the NBS. That would only be valid if this law were proposed by the government. The NBS would never propose one law if it introduced politics, since we proved ourselves fairly and in practice to what extent we were also politically independent. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41453	National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic is in the electronic system. You want a replica? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41454	Thank you. I'll be very brief. To say that you've always acted on the court's decisions says you've had problems with the courts and now you're trying to solve this problem by amending and supplementing this law, as you say, now I'm reading the law. You say – an administrative dispute may be held against the NB's administrative act in the performance of its functions. You allow judicial protection, but you say that the lawsuit does not prevent or delay execution, so that in the second position it is written (let the citizens hear well) – in the administrative dispute of the Act of Position 1 the Court cannot resolve a administrative matter for which the resolution of this law establishes the jurisdiction of the NB. You're putting yourself above the court because you've had problems with illegal decisions to take licenses to banks, insurance companies, and on the unconstitutional basis that you didn't have a legal basis to make a solution for anything, so you've solved it now by this law. I have failed to say that you have not failed to resolve the issue of your salaries, so the profits and fees of your officials are in line with the movement of earnings and the remuneration of your employees in the banking sector, in a manner established by the Statute. You don't want to share the fate of the people, you want to pay as the banks you allow to earn. The statutes now want not to be adopted in the Assembly, which, as a supervisory authority, you understand by letting her know your report. It's the height of cynicism, and maybe it's not. We monitor you by informing us that you've done something. Cynicism is when you say you sold foreign reserves – not for pears and apples. Who is now serious about accessing the subject let the citizens judge, and I will quote Friedman – always and everywhere, inflation is a monetary phenomenon. You mined your own intentions to maintain a stable course and inflation, when you gave repo papers 25% interest in 2006, and inflation was targeted at 12%. Double to the banks to earn, you made a loss that year of 376m euros, according to the report you provided us, and worse, you taught the business banks on easy and safe earnings, not to lend loans to the population and businesses, but to trade with you. And, you us who ended the economy, and from us you had even less experience, than many economists, when you came to that place, you can't...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41455	Three minutes. Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41456	I don't know how to define it, but if the NBS isn't a state body, I'm sorry, please, why is this the agenda point? The National Assembly... (President: National MP, please consult the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. ) Well, that's exactly because Mr. Jelasic said something like that, that NBS is not a state body and called for what I commented on... (President: National MP, for the second time I ask you to consult the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia so that we can continue with the right to reply. Have you seen what the Constitution says? (President: Messenger of the people, I am, but you are not. I'm not what? (President: Please use your right to replica in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and without making the lies that lead to error... ) Mrs. Komic, Mrs. Komic, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, if we exempt those provisions on human rights, etc., all other provisions are dedicated to state bodies, the organisation of state authorities and the functioning of state bodies. The NBS is in exactly that. Please, look at what's written. The Constitution does not contain hunting societies, the President of the Republic, the state body, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the state body, the entire system of the judiciary and the prosecution, the Constitutional Court, the Protector of Citizens, the National Bank, the Army, and now a man comes to us and says, the NBS is not a state body. What isn't? Well, you're gonna lecture me that NBS is not a state body...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41457	The People's MP, he writes in the Constitution under Part Three, Economic Affairs and Public Finance. So there's no talking about anyone giving a lecture to anyone, it's about telling the facts and the truth. Right on line, MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41458	Dear Mr. Jelasic, I didn't suggest that the law, what term you used, was political, no, I suggested, and that's my opinion and my feeling. I said in my speech that it wasn't the only one of mine, I read the opinion of several professors of economic college who said so. When there is a debate in particular, i.e. The amendments will prove that. If the President of the Republic proposes, it should not be considered political law. Given who we have the President of the Republic, he is also the party president, and then I cited examples of an independent judiciary as to what the European Commission says about it. The same president of the Republic and party president said the whole process was transparent, good, democratic, to guarantee an independent judiciary. And then the European Commission, where it wants to be led by that same President of the Republic and the President of the Party, says there is not a word. That's what I said. You haven't spoken a word. You told Mr. Senic what he was criticising, what he said he didn't need a fixed course, that he shouldn't, I don't know, move on to the euro. I said something similar to you, flexible, but with that belt. Because we need to think about the economy. Here in this country, only witches with monetary policy, and it's economical in collapse. I'm sorry, for the last two years, you haven't challenged that. 20%, without this year's money fell from the euro, the value of the dinar, and you didn't dispute it. We still have plus six months this year. Then how come there's no inflation? How's the defense course? What the foreign reserve was spent on, and no exchange rate was defended, and it was said over a billion and something was spent. In my opinion, I need that belt, it's not my mind, I've read it somewhere, and the professors, the businessmen, who advocate it, have given me examples, the state, for example, Slovakia and several other countries that do it successfully, plus-minus that you determine as NBS whether 3% or 5% on an annual level. It is important that the economy needs to know what is waiting for it both for export and for imports, and for production, and for wages, and for consumption and everything else, so as not to get into the minuses, because many have entered because of the course and had negative balances payments at the end of the year, almost all businesses in Serbia in 2009 and 2008.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41459	The word is Governor Radovan Jelasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41460	Just a very short one. As for Mrs. Tabakovic, you have indeed found the best man to quote. It's just not clear to me, if, as you said earlier, Mr. Friedman said that inflation is only a monetary phenomenon, then you should commend me and the NBS for reducing the dinar mass by a billion and 180m euros in dinar equivalent, since we, with the sale of these devisors, have drawn about 110-120 billion dinars from the market, and thus we reduced, of course, the money in circulation and, of course, we acted disinflationably. Besides, of course, the NBS has other ways to pull it. It's one thing to broadcast securities of value and withdraw dinars with it. Of course, the interest rate should be attractive each time, or banks should make voluntary decisions, not under duress. To remind ourselves, all of this went exclusively to achieve the basic goal, which is, in the media as well as obviously the least story here, and that is, whether the NBS achieved price stability. We are currently, at the end of May, going to have an inflation month by month, so, compared to May last year below 4%. It is one significant achievement of the NBS and therefore it should be measured to the extent that it has been effective. As for Mr. Shormaz, yes, and we've been thinking about introducing a belt, but in the end, if you put in some class-related belt, it's a fixed course for you on a little bit. Then you know in advance how long it will go, until it goes. In such conditions, indeed, then you better transfer money to the speculators right away, because if you know who the belt was, that's where pretty many people made good money and it's also not proven to be a more effective way. So, on that belt, a lot of people got rich, and that's why we don't want to go ahead and say it. As for the economy, instead of going to know in advance what the course will be, it would be much better to watch how to minimise exposure to the course. So for the dinar part, on the one hand, the dinars, on the other hand, or the foreign exchange on the one hand and the foreign exchange on the other hand. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41461	The People's Messenger Velimir Ilic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41462	Madam Chairman, Mr. Governor, what shall I call you now, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I expected today to have a serious debate, to have the governor turn around, to see the current situation in the National Bank and to suggest what to do and how this law can fix certain matters. It seems that the governor has come to this empty parliament, the MPs have gone home, there is no interest in hearing the governor, a very small number of MPs remain...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41463	People's MP, please take care of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please listen to me when I address you with instructions for compliance with the provisions and Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You cannot speak of any Messenger of the people with disdain, nor can you make claims from any MP's personal life. Please, and I warn you, you are required to listen to me while I give you instructions. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly make it clear how and how we can treat one another. I warn you that the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly must be respected, there are no negotiations, when I warn you that you are obliged to listen, based on a member of the Rules of Procedure, to warn the chairman. Please reapply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41464	Excuse me, I'd like to know what your problem is. Do you have any problems today? Do you have a problem or are you in charge of this session? What's your problem?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41465	People's MP, I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41466	I warn you to respect the MPs of the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41467	National MP, you cannot conduct a dialogue with the chairman who cares about the application of the order, on the basis of Article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I repeat, the kind of offense that you have committed in your speech by giving views on the behaviour of other MPs about: where, what are they, whether they are in the hall or not. You cannot disrespect any MP, whether he is present in the O.R. or not, and you cannot express the views concerning their private lives or other activities, it is forbidden to the Rules of Procedure, as you must listen when the chairman reminds you of respect for the provisions. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41468	Madam Chairman, I have no intention of harming any MP, but I am presenting one fact, when the governor of the National Bank addresses parliament, however, deserves one more attention from this home, one more seriousness in the work. Half an hour ago, I had a Committee on Traffic and Relations, with an extremely important topic, and no MP from the ruling coalition sitting here in the O.R. did come to attend the Committee's session to be eliminated. Why? Because it doesn't suit you to adopt an amendment that doesn't suit you. So I ask you to let the discussion develop properly. Don't just cut it, don't find the reasons why someone hurt someone and insulted them, to piss someone off, to get into some conflict, etc. I really ask you, as chairman, to be very correct to the MPs, to let MPs and political parties say what they think, what their position is in this case. I reiterated that I expected a serious debate here, however, I found the governor extremely moody, smiling, came a little with us to talk and, of course, go into an extremely difficult state in this country, in the most difficult state perhaps in the last 20 years in the economy, especially in agriculture, in public enterprises, in inflation, in a series of problems. The governor retreats as if a stone had fallen from his heart, after 10 years the authorities of him and his predecessor from a political option, who literally worked in finance what they wanted, at the National Bank, what they wanted and, here, where they brought us. They brought us here today, where we have brought Serbia into major problems, brought us millions of unemployed, brought us to 720,000 citizens who feed in folk cuisines, led us to have such a growth in agricultural production that it was a disaster, brought us to the price of the apple to be three dinars in ransom last year, led us to such a monopoly in the trade by leading our economic policy and financing certain projects, and brought us into one state of total hopelessness. Now, of course, they brought in foreign banks, they did everything they wanted to do. They abolished concessions that were a rescue for Serbia, to go into real investment. They built a NIP, put it under their party control. There's no NIP anywhere in the world with a bunch of money, who literally does whatever he wants. Today, someone from the NIP appears in a certain place and says, "We're going to give you five billion, three billion, two billion." It's nowhere in the world, not in any normal state. It's not in the Budget Law, it's nowhere to be found, that someone can afford such resources on their own. They put us in a position where huge investments, housing, construction, four highways were promised, are on the move right away. Here, it's summer, it's summer break, gentlemen, and none of the investments have started. How many cranes in Belgrade are spinning and how many in Serbia? It's all stopped, everything's blocked, and, of course, now the governor's going to rest a little bit, and the president's going to get right under the new law to bring in some governor, to stay there for a while, neither guilty nor due. And all those who have been obliged to file reports on their work will step aside and step out of their story and, they've finished the job. They've done a big job for someone and not for us. We've had thousands of investments here, thousands of different jobs paid without a tender. Here in this House I have asked countless times a variety of questions – how did "Nuba Invest" without a tender? Now, it's been said by RATEL the other day that they had no right to do that job, and that's why they're going to work SBB, and these are going to be subcontractors, etc. So, Mr. Governor, I still call you that, you're leaving, we're staying here. Someone else will come, I don't know who the president's bringing, they'll bring someone to stay, because the job's over. The banks are privatized, it's all arranged right, as you intend, it's all over, the giants are gone. The economy is completely ruined. "Prince Milos" is destroyed. One Magnochrom, one Petolet, one Electric Industry, one MIN. With the flag. What is it? None of you have explained to us what you've done, what a combination you've made...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41469	National MP, please, in accordance with Article 103, speak on the subject of the agenda and bring up everything you have mentioned and concerning events for this or the past year in connection with the draft law which is on the agenda. Our common obligation is to respect Article 103.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41470	I'd like to ask a few questions to the governor. Why didn't he react in time to get to this mess? I remember, Mr. Governor, when everyone was looking forward, when the IMF was leaving in time, you said -- thank God, they're leaving, now we can breathe and do what we think is right. Now you've got a hold of him because you've got three billion, to maintain the course of the dinar. You can't keep him. You can see that prices are rising, and there's an announcement of excise collection. Mr. Governor, when we were together, when I was in the government, oil was 76 dinars and milk was 34 dinars of liters. Now oil is 120 dinars and milk is 16 dinars. How can he survive?- I'm sorry. Now, that is the crown of your success, your and your associates. Here's where we came from today. We have the most expensive energy in Europe. We have an extremely difficult situation to come from. Every day we have fun – who arrested, shot, whether because of the mistress, whether because of the wife, fell in, great successes, we make deals with Brazil, Argentina, who we didn't make everything with. We've got a bunch of papers coming in daily on signed agreements. And we're not leaving?- I'm sorry. We wanted to hear one of your visions – what are you leaving for the heir? How do we get going? What's the state of the National Bank? What's the status of the foreign reserve? Can we hold a course for the dinar? How far is he gonna push? Are we going to take back some extra credits and artificially maintain it? Should we artificially maintain it?- I'm sorry. What do you think the real price of the course is compared to the production currently in Serbia? How can these questions be solved that are extremely current? I liked to hear your opinion, because here in parliament we heard two ministers, one from the economy saying: to increase credits, to give, to borrow, to increase the purchasing power of the population, and to the minister of finance who says – in no way to increase purchasing power, not to borrow, not to lend, not to any credit, nor, now, what is your opinion? Do you agree with the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Finance? We've never heard of the Prime Minister. He comes in, he keeps a letter for two minutes, then he leaves and says he's too happy with the situation, that the crisis is over. I haven't heard from you whether the crisis has begun or gone, or if it's half past, or if it's going to be two years or a year. The prime minister here said that the crisis has passed, that citizens no longer feel that they live better, but they live better, but the people don't feel it yet. And now I don't get it. You're leaving. Of course, you'll be doing a quieter job, you'll be back in the financial sphere, and what else can we go on? Therefore, who will come and how can the president now propose? And let the president suggest that he be the responsible president for what he proposes. You haven't told us anything about any of the "Satellite" affairs. I don't know, I'm for being responsible for every little thing. It's impossible for anyone, and your party, whose leader you are, to get into that story, and we have to pay for it. Your party has entered some vaccines that, again, we have to pay and we'll pay, big pay. How? I don't know, and in a number of other duties this country will have to pay. How many Serbia now has complaints and disputes on a variety of grounds, and many of them will lose and will have to pay for them. And as far as the bank is concerned, we have a lot of lawsuits, Mr. Governor, which remain unsolved. So I expected one seriousness, your concern, not one leprosy, one smile, and you were about to say happy – people, I'm a free man, I came here to talk a little and go away. I'll do some work, I'll be happy to no longer have that zooming, calling, etc. Where I brought you, I brought you, and that's where I'll leave you to someone. I don't know if anyone's going to do anything or not. You can see for yourself. But very big things have been resolved during your term of office, extremely big things. Many Serbian banks have disappeared, which were the pride of Serbia! I was in Bora yesterday. There are debts, debts, banks, trusts, ecosystems. Nothing's been solved. A city that's falling apart! He was left for mercy and mercy. A city that doesn't have more than half the roofs. It's sneezing everything. It's all about one mess. Your associates said they'd found funds, urgated, finished building a new smelting plant. It's not made. She didn't even start to pretend. There's a big problem, walls are biting, roofs are falling apart. People got sick, the first in Europe to have cancer. No one does that. The important thing is that yesterday your boss put his helmet on and went down to the pit, as did the president the other day, and they didn't visit any settlements. It's important for the Public Service, for the media, to put a helmet on your head, get down to the pit, get out of the pit, go to lunch, get in the car and go home, of course. And the people should be pleased that the high officials of the state put a helmet on their heads and come down. Some branches we swore we would support our banks, such as agriculture, energy, travel infrastructure, construction stand. Tourism has been announced, you remember perfectly how much money has been invested, as a major development branch of Serbia and none of it. It's all stopped. Where she cares, there's the rest. There's nothing going on in construction anymore. All the giants went bankrupt and went bankrupt!
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41471	People's MP, I remind you of article 103 and the obligation to talk about the agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41472	Ma'am, the agenda point is...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41473	People's MP, I remind you, you are required to listen to the chairman under the terms of the Rules of Procedure. I reminded you that we are obliged to talk about a point on the agenda. Now I ask you, indeed, to explain before the National Assembly an act on the agenda, amendments and additions to the bill. Here you go. Just sign in and you'll get your word back.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41474	Mrs. Komic, I know that everything you say, and what you don't care about, you don't give a shit, and you don't give a shit. Brake development...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41475	People's MP, you came in with a speech that required seriousness from all of us. With that part of your speech, I completely agree. The seriousness is that you respect the provision of the Rules of Procedure which obliges you to speak about what is on the agenda. The National Assembly works in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and in order to be serious, you and I must respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm really asking you to start doing this, because I'm doing it. Sign up and you'll get your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41476	Thank you, Mrs. Komic, for what you're doing, but the other day, I asked you to respect the Rules of Procedure. You can't finish the principle debate, and after that, the resolution board, after an hour, which discusses the problem that was in the principle debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41477	National MP, you are the chairman of this committee. You're scheduled for a session.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41478	Madam Chairman, please listen to me. I scheduled everything on time, and you scheduled a session for tomorrow afternoon on Friday afternoon, so we didn't have time to invite the MPs to move them, because the session was scheduled the way it was supposed to, so the board didn't hold and didn't hold. It was impossible. So, you started arguing...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41479	National MP, the work of the Traffic and Connection Committee is your responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41480	That's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41481	The order of the session is my responsibility. I'm asking you to talk about the agenda point, really please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41482	Mrs. Comic, I can see that we can't find a common language. Whenever I discuss, half of my time you discuss. You're used to it, you like to talk. So from now on, I'm gonna answer when someone else is in charge and I'm gonna try...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-06-11-0.u41483	People's MP, please do not address the chairman. Please read the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly which oblige us to comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. I do nothing else, but I remind you, waiting patiently and listening carefully to whether you will begin to respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. When it became evident that you were not doing so, protecting the reputation of this institution, agreeing with your desire to have a serious debate... Please don't throw away, MP. Please, People's Messenger, don't throw it away. If you want to continue your presentation, you have eight minutes left, go ahead and sign in. Thank you. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives want a word? (No) Does the governor want a word? (No) In that case, given that, and this is a notice based on Article 85, for today we are scheduled to work until 1400 hours, I will give a few notices. The first is to postpone the 19th session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's Transport and Liaison Committee for Monday, June 14, 2010, starting at 9.30 p.m., in Hall II, at the House of the National Assembly. The second notification is that, until now, in the morning part of the session, we have completed the work of the session, i.e. during the session, which includes the address of the proposings, representatives of the committee, MPs who have singled out the opinion and authorised representatives, i.e. the president of the parliamentary groups. We're finishing work for today. The paper continues on Tuesday, June 15th, at 10.00 p.m., during the session when the People's MPs will have their word on the application, of course, starting at 10.00 p.m., when the session takes place on the basis of Article 235. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Today's work ends in the morning work for a reason that is probably known to everyone. This day may be remembered by some of us for the first part of the debate on the amendment and addition of the National Bank Act, and the rest of the planet after the opening of the football championship. The final informal announcement, today exactly two years since the mandates of the MPs have been confirmed, has been convened by the National Assembly. It's been a pleasure working together these two years, and I hope we can work together for the next two years. Thank you, by Tuesday, June 15th. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 100 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are 91 MPs in the hall, i.e. working conditions. On Tuesdays and Thursdays, and following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate, the session shall take place in accordance with Article 235(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, under which the right to seek information and information shall be given to the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 235. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Susana Grubjesic.
