ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46061	The President-in-Office, distinguished representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, given the content of issues that I consider to be of strategic importance, is a matter for Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, and also for the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of National Investment Plan. The short and concise question is – what happens to Car Konstantin the Great in Nis? Low city authorities, consistent with all the attributes of doing their government, do not have the courage to tell the full truth to the citizens of Nis, and the government of a bunch of promises to function at the airport has reduced all this to a loan that does not give to the government but that gives to the "Nikola Tesla" Airport. Why is this set up and why is the general relationship to the functioning of the airport called carelessness? And I'd add one comment, don't mind my colloking approach, I'd use the word lie here, often use euphemisms such as untruth or permeation of truth, I'd ask a simple question -- why are the people of Nisa lying and why they're trying to get the citizens of Nis all those who are responsible for doing this to the eyes of something called the loan? The people of Nisha were told that it was not a loan, that it was a help. Council members in the National Assembly of Nisa consider this to be a benefit. The truth is completely different. There's a piece of paper I have in my hands about it. I would ask for an explanation, and I would remind all government members again that Serbia exists outside Belgrade, and there is someone living in Nis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46062	The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46063	Since the formation of this government, which the PUPS entered with a pre-election promise to do everything to make pensions 70% personal income, until today, pensioners have not received anything, but have lost much. Here's an example, in 2008, the average salary was 430 euros, the average pension of 236. In 2010, the average salary is 320 euros and the average pension is 205 euros. They've lost 31 euros in this year and a half. By the time this government arrived, it was customary for pensions to amount to 60% to 65% of personal income, to be adjusted twice a year with the cost of living in April and October. At the end of 2008, Mr. Krkobbic carried out a so-called monetary coup, not Dinkic's group, and then increased his linear pension 10% to all pensioners, so many received from 900 to 2000 dinars. For the next two years, there were no more promises, pensions were worth less and less because inflation was growing each time during this incompetent government. As it seemed to survive in those terrible years, it is best known by an army of 770,000 pensioners whose incomes are less than 21,000. Of these, 200,000 receive a pension of less than 100 euros, while another 200 thousand receive a pension of about 12 thousand. Meanwhile, a burden on local self-government was transferred, of course, to those who had the opportunity to pay assistance to pensioners, such as Belgrade or Jagodina, my Valjevo or Osecina, or Pirot, or Sabac, or some other cities, such as Leskovac, received nothing. Pensioners there are not as important as those in other cities. Then began the mystery of the so-called new PIO law. No one knew the law was written, although we from the media heard that the IMF had announced that the law would be here by February 2010. Resorni Minister Ljajic knew nothing about it, the finance minister knew nothing about it. Mr. Krkobic, vice-president of the government, was aware of the issues of the oldest and poorest citizens of Serbia. However, since nothing was known, the public leaked various information that became public the moment the law entered the congregation procedure. At that time, when the law entered the congregation procedure, we all realized, although the pensioners were then given false hopes that pensions would be 70% of the average personal income, that nothing, that there was no lower limit to how much minimum pensions would be, that age limits were raised, that there were no safeguards to prevent further pensions, that women were the most injured pensioners, military and police. So much for that. Then the whole circus started, so-called. The circus in this assembly, when the law of pure peace was withdrawn from the procedure without anyone knowing who pulled it. Krkobic, who is allegedly in charge of the law, which is strange, without Ljajic, swore he knew nothing about it. The law is multiple times, Kobayagi, consistent with unions. It'd be the principle that it's the other way around, to get along first and get on the agenda. Apparently, there was a game here that killed the most pensioners. Krkobic feared the pensioners, that they were wasting valuable time in doing so, that pensions would not be able to pay off. I quote -- due to the withdrawal of the law from the procedure, there will be no increase in the lowest pensions in the following year, nor will pensions be planned to be brought into line with the growth of profits in the public sector. Cvetkovic says otherwise, Tadic says otherwise. The only honest minister, Ljajic, who has said very openly, is that nothing can be spoken of publicly until he has agreed with the IMF and publicly admitted how much a puppet relationship this government has and how much it cares about pensioners. Krkobic says these issues will be extended by 2012, of course, knowing that they will not be in power afterwards. I have to ask Mr. Krkobic and Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic - who is and on the basis of which parameters did the Retirement and Disabilities Insurance Act withdraw from the procedure? And the question to Mr. Krkobic -- who authorized him to lie to millions and seven hundred thousand pensioners, in the way he did it before the law was withdrawn today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46064	The word has an MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46065	Ladies and gentlemen, today is the 2808 day since the president of the SRS, Dr Vojislav Seselj, is in The Hague. You know that we regularly informed the public about his health and that the information we presented has always proved to be true. Today I request a notice, do the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia do anything to protect the fundamental human rights of their citizens located in The Hague tribunal? In particular, are they doing anything to ensure the right to adequate treatment and the right to the life of Dr. Vojislav Seselj? All of us in the SRS, but also says the number of Serbian citizens, have justifiably feared for the life of Dr Vojislav Seselj for a long time. Based on the information we came to yesterday and today, I must say that we now believe that our president's life is very seriously at stake, at least as threatened as it was the last days of his hunger strike. As you know, Vojislav Seselj was operated on Thursday. At the time of hospital admission and before the surgery itself, the doctor's and medical staff's relationship with him was correct. He had a conversation with the doctor who later operated on him. That doctor said he couldn't guarantee anything, that he hoped everything would be okay and that the next day, I repeat, the next morning he would know whether the operation was successful or not. The surgery was performed under local anaesthesia, by dragging catheters to the heart through one artery and two veins. Between Vojislav Seselj and the doctor who performed the operation, direct communication lasted all along. The doctor praised the state of blood vessels of Vojislav Seselj. They communicated without interruption, but when the catheter came to the heart, then the doctor cut off communication, apologized to Seselj and started talking to his colleagues in Dutch which Vojislav does not understand. The only thing he said to Vojislav Seselj was that there were two problems, not one as they thought. After that, an ablacio was performed, i.e. burning certain points in the heart seven or eight times and then Vojislav Seselj felt a great pain. At one point he lost consciousness. It lasted about 20 minutes and when he came to consciousness, the doctors told him that it was caused by the fall of oxygen in his blood. After surgery, to question – did the operation succeed? The doctor who had previously claimed, I repeat, that the next morning he will know the results, he said – that nothing will be known for another three or four months. The evening after the operation and all night, Vojislav carried a holter with electrodes that measured his heart rate, however, when they took down the Holter, unlike the previous times when he wore it, they did not want to tell him any results. Instead, they took him to an ultrasound of a heart that was unusually long, because the paramedic repeatedly repeated the procedure. Obviously something was wrong. However, when the review was completed, he did not want anything about the results to say to Seselj, but said he would tell the chief physician the results of the review, and that at 10.00 hours, Chief Doctor Vojislav Seselj would announce the results. Instead of the chief doctor arriving at 10.00 hours, shortly before 10.00 hours, a prison guard arrived, they picked up Vojislav and sent him back to prison in Cheveningen, without any results, without any medical records or releases. Upon his arrival in prison, a prison doctor took Vojislav Seselj to a detention facility to perform an ECG there, a routine checkup that was done more than 100 times in that same room, as the party president told us. However, this time, when the ECG was done, the nurse was very surprised when she looked at the results and thought that some of the electrodes were not well attached. She checked the hand of each electrode and repeated the ECG review, however, the result was not good again. They started talking again in a language that Vojislav doesn't understand. The only thing he was able to conclude from that conversation and hear, that is, extracists, i.e. laytically speaking, an extraordinary heart attack that disturbs the regular heart rate. Instead of giving Vojislav Seselj any explanation of these results, the prison doctor said that he had broken down that apparatus and instead of taking him to a prison hospital, which has the same apparatus and which is 150 meters away, they put him back in his cell. That was Friday morning. On Friday all day, Saturday, Sunday, Monday, four full days of Operation Vojislav Seselj's not even a simple ECG review, and probably not, I'm ending in 10 seconds, please have your understanding, it probably won't be today, because it has an scheduled status conference. To make things worse, the situation is unchanged. She's still feeling cardiac arrhythmias, feeling pain and pressure in her chest. The treatment he received before surgery is the same as now, which says there were no results. He requested a detailed report on his state of health in Serbian. Day five of any report he hasn't received. That's why I thank you and ask you for an answer to the question I asked.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46066	Six minutes. National MP Zlata Djeric has been registered as an authorised representative. Would you like to ask a question or ask for a notice on the basis of Article 286? The memo from your MP's club didn't arrive, it's likely that it will arrive from the office now, that you are an authorised representative. Here you go. The word has a message from Zlata Đeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46067	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected to the public of Serbia, have recently been confusing Serbian citizens. It is information provided by the government of the Republic of Serbia that the monetary amount for Ratko Mladic's information and information on Goran Hadzic is paid at 10m euros for information on Ratko Mladic's place of residence and 1m euros for Goran Hadzic's place of residence. Given that Serbia is in a very difficult economic situation, as well as in the end and the whole world, Serbia is in a particularly difficult situation, since all social charges are reduced to the least possible or abolished completely, Serbian citizens are interested in the figure of 11m euros, where is it in the budget? Minister Kalanovic announced that the item exists in the budget, that the Serbian government has these funds for these purposes. I think that the Serbian Parliament is also interested, in which place and in which budget are these funds foreseen? We've never noticed that priced head appraisal, so we're interested, when we're voting on the budget, we might put in some kind of amendment and reroute those funds differently. I would like the minister to explain where the reserve amount is in the budget, is it perhaps in the Ministry of the NIP and is that the item to be found in the ministry and paid from there? Other information published by Minister Djelic, whom I must first ask if he talks to the government of which he is a member, seems to me not to speak to other members of the government, since he said one complete opposite information - that there are no bounty hunters in Serbia, which I welcome as information and as a fact - and that this job will be done by the Army and the police of Serbia, which is their job. We are interested in whether this money will be provided for the payment of that information by the army and the police of Serbia when they do their job or are considered to be a regular part of their work and their regular tasks? So that's information that doesn't go with each other but completely cancels out each other. Serbian citizens want to know exactly what can be learned about this information – where are these funds, who will get them or another lie from the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the pier? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46068	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want to ask a question, request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 286? Since none of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups are answering for a word anymore, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Nikola Novakovic and Sinisa Stamenkovic. Notification of the invitations to the session. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly of Ms. Slavica Djukić-Dejanović, in addition to the representative of Proposor Mladjan Dinkic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Regional Development, Verice Kalanovic, Minister for NIP and Jasna Matic, Minister of Telecommunications and Information Society, has called for the meeting of the National Employment Service, Nebojsa Ćirić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Sladjana Backović, Director of the Fund for Development of the Republic of Serbia, Vidoje Jevremović, Director of the Sector at the National Employment Service, Tatjana Prijic and Vera Rovcanin, Head of the Department in the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Nenad Ilić and Zora Ilić, Advisors of Economy and Regional Development and Lidija Smiljanić, adviser at the Agency for Insurance and Finance of Export of the Republic of Serbia. We move to a joint principle search of the 11-14th item of the agenda: – PROPOSALS ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE TURISM LAW, THE LAW ON TRAINING AND FUNDING OF THE SERBILITY CASE, THE LAW ON THE AGENCY ON THE AGENCY FOR OBJECTIVE AND FINISHING THE ISSUING OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND THE LAW ON THE FUND FOR THE RURAL PURPOSE OF SERBIA BEFORE I GIVE THE WORD TO THE PUBLICARY MEMBER BoyNA Stanojevic, on the basis of Articles 87 and 90 of Article 2. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and in accordance with Article 27, I would like to inform you that during the session in the sittings of the agenda in the general search period from 11th to 14th points, whether it will be the usual 14.00 hours or something sooner or later. So, when we end the debate in the principle of a joint search, a break of one hour will be set and after the break in the afternoon we will move to a joint principled search on two points of the agenda that are next – the proposal for a law on the transport of dangerous cargo and the bill on the establishment of an air traffic agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Arab Republic, with what we will do after 1800 hours. The word has a folk emissary, Bojana Stanojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46069	Madam Chairman, the Honorable Minister, fellow Members of Parliament, the reason for my announcement today is the law on amendments to the Tourism Act. Given that I come from Vrnjačka Banja, one of the most important centres of Banjska tourism and tourism in Serbia at all, Serbia must recognise tourism as one of its strategic economic branches, given all natural characteristics and cultural and historical heritage. This Banish tourism certainly takes up one of the most important places. Many countries of Europe, such as Slovenia, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, have developed their Banish tourism and have led it to the level that their spas have become a favorite destination of quality guests, who come not only because of treatment and rehabilitation, but also because of the prevention, rest and improvement of the general state of health. Recently here, we have considered the Spacious Plan of the Republic of Serbia, which Vranjacka Banja recognized as the leading in Banja tourism in Serbia and opened the possibility of developing so as to gain international importance. In order to achieve international importance, the state must stand behind it. This contributes to the decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to find a strategic partner who will, above all, raise the general level of development by investing his financial resources and by bringing his business into the spa, i.e. in a health and catering complex, and to classify Vrnjačka Banja in the order of European spas. On this occasion, I would like to welcome the government's decision not to sell such an important natural and health resource, but to influence, by bringing a strategic partner to Vrnjačka Banja, fresh and, especially, clean capital. It is very important to ensure the development of a health and hotel catering complex, to enable the maintenance of existing jobs, but also to create new jobs, which will support this development. This is a very sensitive moment, and I would like to stress that in particular. It can even be crucial for those of us who live and work in Vranjska Banja. We have already felt the consequences of the failed privatisation of the hotel and catering company "Fontana", we have felt the consequences of an inadequate relationship towards the development of tourism in this place and it is high time to withdraw the red line. Vrnjaka Banja has all natural predisposition to catch up with European spas. It has a respectable medical staff, an excellently equipped health and rehabilitation centre, and has a well-known secondary tourist and catering school, as well as a university, which brings out well-educated staff. I therefore appeal to the competent ministry to appreciate all these personalities, qualities, traditions and in a carefully chosen way to help this spa go into modern development, from which its citizens and guests will also benefit and pleasure, and Serbia has something to be proud of, as between the two world wars, when the royal family was treated and rested here, when its holiday villas were built here by the Serbian elite, and the registered tourist visit was greater than the one in Dubrovnik at the time. But Dubrovnik is now far away, like Opatija, with whom as many Vrenjci competed yesterday who will be the champion of tourism, in millions of nights. Far as Bled, various Rogaška, Radenske, Chateška and other Toplice, Ohrid, after all. But not just geographically distant. It's the smallest obstacle in a mile. It's like the problem in your head, the way you think about it, is that you're setting up a crucial postulate. The law must be an incentive for new, creative and excessive ideas in tourism, which is the strategic resource of Serbia, but also as a dam of malversions, as clearly and firmly placed peaches of every kind, failed entrepreneurs and even worse waiters, politicians of the worst kind who, drilling into local patriotic breasts, obstruct any attempt to improve and step out towards something that they have long promised us, looking at only their own interests. It is precisely because of these, Serbia's new policy in tourism, and the law we are discussing today, that it should remind us that the Latins were right: history is a teacher of life.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46070	Five minutes of MP time was used. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Pejcic. After him, MP Jovan Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46071	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the Ministers, the Government's representatives, at first I must express my dissatisfaction because the ruling majority once again on the agenda has put laws that are not compatible, which have no points of contact, as we have economic and social laws at this point. Secondly, we expected Mr Mladjan Dinkic to appear here in the National Assembly, who is also a legislator and whose ministry wrote these laws, with all due respect to Mrs Matic, but this is obviously not her report and I do not expect him to give us any answers to our questions. In my discussion, I will be most attached to the law on the amendment and supplementation of the Tourism Act. When a new law is passed, or some new amendments to the law and additions, it is then an anachron law, a law that has been run over by a tooth of time or that does not fit the present time. However, the fact is that we passed one tourism law a year and a half ago, in fact 13 May 2009, and I am surprised, Madam Minister, that in a year and a half, this law has become anachron. That's the first question for you that I'd like to ask - why are we passing the current tourism law? This law has caused extremely large controversy among tourist workers, especially with Banish associations and associations of specialised health institutions, who have voiced protests because they said that there was not enough transparency in the making of this law, they were not heard enough and their well-intentioned criticisms were not accepted. In fact, 23 rehabilitation centres want to be simply equal with other participants in tourism. You are discriminating them with this law and their reactions are normal in this regard. In fact, it is suspected that this is a suitable ground, that this law is suitable for some spas, some rehabilitation centres are being sold in the future, because it is closer to the elections, and since you are the Minister of Telecommunications, you have received information that Telecom will also be sold, so it is one of the preparations for some future elections. We as a country, first of all, have to be champions in Banja health tourism, because looking at the environment and some other countries, such as Croatia and Bulgaria, we cannot be competitors to them because they have an unexhausted resource, which is the sea. In this aspect of tourism, we need to be champions and we need to create certain quality assumptions, in order for tourists to come to us, because right now health Banish tourism brings half the revenue from the total income in tourism, and for these reasons we have to create certain qualitative assumptions, i.e. Government as a proponent of these laws. Many bad privatisations were in tourism. Among other things, such bad privatisations happened and in my town, where I come from, it's Leskovac. The hotel catering company "Balkan" is disastrously privatized. Namely, this company had extremely high-quality tourist facilities, some were under the protection of the state, believe me, in the very center of town, and now they are the acquisition site of the drug addicts. It's a real mockery. Not to mention that negative aspect of firing workers. For these reasons, many spas from southern Serbia have contacted me, since I am their representative here, and have given me some suggestions. Actually, I'll list which ones are the spas. These are, above all, Kursumliska, Banja Break, Sijarinska Banja, a spa in the Jablanic district that has the only geyser in Europe, one exhausted resource. Also, there are 16 healing waters in that bathroom itself. The state invested a lot of funds in the spa through the Coordination Centre because of the situation, because of the mixed population. We also have Vranjska Banja, a spa that has the hottest source in Europe, 93 degrees. We have a Bujanovska spa. Look now, all the spas are at the administrative border with Kosovo. If the government misprivatizes these rehabilitation centres, it will actually stimulate new migrations from these areas. From southern Serbia, Madam Minister, you may not have known, 2,200 people are moving annually to Belgrade, Nis and to some other cities. If we make bad assumptions and people move out of these spas, and since physics doesn't know about the empty space, you assume who's going to move in there. What is critical of this law and what has caused the greatest controversy? It's this famous 20th member who is denying spas to deal with tourism, denying spas, or rehabilitation centres that they can receive third parties. They're the ones who don't have medical instructions, they're the ones who want money from their means to heal. However, Banja must seek the ministry's discretionary right to give them permission to stay there. This is the second bad assumption complained by representatives of the Bani Association, which is the discretionary right of the ministry. You know that, according to the perception of the corruption index, Serbia is in 83rd place. This is a direct generator of corruption. The government makes an unwritten rule that itself creates an environment for corruption. If it's from this government, it's a lot. I would refer to other laws, Madam Minister. These are the draft laws on employment, the addition of the Insurance and Financing Agency Act, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. As Mrs Kalanovic told us, these laws are passed for one simple reason, because of decentralisation and deconcentration of the executive government, that many institutions, many services of certain ministries must be removed from Belgrade. We agree entirely with that. However, I ask you why these services are only being decommissioned in those centers where G17, i.e. A party of joint regions wants to be in the center? Užice, Kragujevac - Verko, Zaječar – Boško Ničić, Niš, organs are detected in these centres alone. For that reason, I've made one amendment that these centers, for example, are detachable to Leskovac. Leskovac and Jablani County are the districts where we have the highest unemployment rate. My colleagues from my parliamentary group may be angry that I did it, but I expect the other MPs from southern Serbia, Mrs Matic, to support this amendment of mine and to detach certain institutions into Leskovac as well. To end this word of mine, Madam Minister, I expect, first of all, to accept it, i.e. The government will accept these amendments to create conditions for the DSS to vote in favour of these laws. If you don't accept this, this is how you hit a Glagow stake with all the spas, all the health institutions in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46072	Seven minutes and 30 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word is made by MP Jovan Nesovic, and then by MP Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46073	Dear President, Madam Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, we have four amendments and amendments to the law today, and in my discussion I want to talk briefly about amendments to the Employment and Insurance Act, about the Agency for Export Insurance and Export Finance and amending and supplementing the Development Fund Act. To understand the importance of these three laws, i.e. amendments and additions to these three laws, it seems important to repeat several statistics that are present in Serbia today. One thing that is very important, if we look at statistics, i.e. population movements from 1970 to 2010, for the last 40 years, we will see that in some towns in Serbia, the number of inhabitants almost dropped by 50% in those 40 years, in Žabari by 47%, in Srelig by 40%, while in other cities, which are the most developed places in Serbia, the population increased by 30-40%, in Belgrade by 33%, in Novi Sad by 54%. Looking at unemployment today, we will see that the Belgrade region has unemployment in Serbia 13.7%, while some regions have over 30% unemployment. I'm talking about regions, and municipalities are even over 58%, like the White Palanca. If we talk about the salary average, in Belgrade today the average salary is 24% higher than the average salary in Serbia, while in Leban the average salary is 40% lower than in Serbia today. When you look at all of this, you see that the state of Serbia today is very unevenly regionally developed and, when we talk about regions or administrative environments, this imbalance is about 1:7 between the most developed, and the most underdeveloped district. To reduce these regional differences, which is the primary objective of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the activities carried out by the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development and other ministries dealing with regional policy, it is necessary to do a few things. The first thing is, if nothing else, to deconcentrate institutions from one place, in this case Belgrade, to other Serbian cities. When we talk about what cities will be, then we need to think about what is the defined spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia, which we talked about the other day, because the spatial plan defined that the largest cities in Serbia should be both engines of development and that is exactly what cities are of national importance and what cities are of particular importance. It is clear that Zaječar, Nis and Kragujevac are cities of national importance and three institutions move to the beginning to those three cities, and Užice is a city that is of particular importance, hence the Insurance and Financing Agency is also going to the city, so that what is said in the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia is respected. The next step to define and work on the next period is decentralisation, i.e. moving political decision from Belgrade to regions. What the United Regions of Serbia today advocate is something that should be given political support to all actors, because it is an important thing, if we want more equal regional development of Serbia. The third important thing is to develop infrastructure in all parts of Serbia and develop a regional economy to prevent people from moving out of certain areas, so that these spaces do not remain uninhabited. As for the draft law on employment and unemployment insurance, the most important thing is to move the headquarters of the National Employment Service in Kragujevac. It is important because of Kragujevac, and it is important because Kragujevac has come to the largest multinational company that exists today in Serbia, which is "Fiat". Along with "Fiyat" will come the components, which will certainly open the plants near Kragujevac. It is important that a new employment policy, something that will happen in the development of Šumadija and all of central Serbia, comes from Kragujevac and I see nothing wrong because the headquarters of the National Service in the future will be in Kragujevac. As for the Agency for Insurance and Export Finance, the headquarters will be in Uzic. On the other hand, the Export Insurance Agency is tasked with supporting economic operators most often engaged in exporting and strengthening their position on both domestic and foreign markets. Exporting is something very important today in Serbia. What these amendments and additions define is that an entrepreneur can also provide domestic market demand at the level of those claims on the foreign market, because it is quite clear that at a time of crisis, when you have great indifference in the economy, the internal claims of an economic operator can lead to problems, although it is export-oriented. Therefore, it seems to me that this amendment and the addition of the law is very important. What's also very important to me is that the seat is in Uzica. When you look at statistics today, 13.1% of total exports are from the Zlatibor County, or from this region. That's about $491 million a year in 2009. It's the only region that has a surplus somewhere around $115 million. So if we want to choose where the seat is supposed to be, I think the Ministry suggested that it be in Uzic. As far as the Development Fund is concerned, logically, southern Serbia is today the most underdeveloped part of Serbia. When we talked earlier about statistical data, a large number of places and unemployment issues, and about the reduction of the number of inhabitants in those cities and about the development of the economy, it is in southern and eastern Serbia. If we want to speed up the development of that part, it's important that an institution goes to a big city like Nis, so it's proposed that the Development Fund be in Nis. What is also important is that amendments and amendments to the law have defined that state-owned enterprises can now compete with the Development Fund. It is something that has made the government of the Republic of Serbia think so at this point. It has also been happening lately because of the global crisis, but also because of failed privatisations that took place in Serbia, that the Privatisation Agency is terminating contracts. There are some companies that can be helped, that can be successful enterprises and some that can't really be helped. The state, especially at a time of crisis, must deal with real economy and it is important that the state to those companies where the privatisation contract has been broken and it has gone to state property, can help through the Development Fund to survive, because these companies must once have been developmentists in their places, so that in the future they should try everything to be developmentists as well. On the other hand, it is defined that loans from the Development Fund can also be used by economic operators that have part of social ownership, but that percentage of social ownership must be less than 40%, because it is defined as trying in all possible ways, especially in times of crisis, to help all economic operators with sound ideas, to create a new product that can be sold on the market and to preserve their employment. What is also very important to say, the Fund for Development, the value of capital is increasing by five to 10 million, which I think, for the sake of security and for the ratings and stability of that institution, is important, so that the Development Fund should play a more significant role than it has so far, which means in lending to the domestic economy that should be the bearer of development. This may be the first and most important step. It seems to me that during the people's period we will have to make sure that the seats of some other institutions can be moved from Belgrade to some of the towns of Serbia. I see no reason not to think that the headquarters of the "Serbian" central is not in Belgrade, but elsewhere in Serbia, Serbia, the "Serbian Ways" and some other institutions, because only by deconcentrating institutions can we start in one systematic way to discuss Serbia's even regional development. Road infrastructure and at all infrastructure is very important and the idea of the government of the Republic of Serbia that a network of highways should be done in Serbia over the next few years is also an important factor to achieve the goal I was talking about at the beginning, which is to stop the migration of the population, to boost the economy in those most underdeveloped parts of Serbia and to raise employment in those parts. I am absolutely sure that this will not be quick or easy, but it is important to start in one system way and not to make this government of the Republic of Serbia's activities short-term, but to be long-term and I am absolutely sure that we will achieve the goal that we want to achieve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46074	Nine minutes and 10 seconds of MP time were used. Honorable MPs, before I give the word to the National MP Kenan Hajdarević, let me inform you that part of today's session, starting from 10.30 hours, from the Gallery of the Great Hall of the House of National Assembly, will be followed by a group of students of the Faculty of Law from Kragujević, and this: Anja Živadinović, Djordje Todorović, Milan Djoković, Milja Kalabić, Milica Božović, Marko Krsmanovic, Andrijana Pavlović, Milos Dragić, Nevena Pjević, Milan Djordević, Milica Žarković, Jelena Milovanovic, Tavanovic, Tanja Miljana Živić, Dražna Radošarić, Radošažić, Miljana Radošević, Andrijana Pavić, Marija Pavlović, Marija Dragić, Nevena Pošić, Ivana Pjević, Milović, Milović, Milović, Milović, Miloš, Miloš, Miloš, Miloš, Miloš, Miloš, Miloš, Miloš, Miloš, Miloš Žar, Milović, Milović, Milović, Ivan Žar, Ivanažović, Ivana, Ivanaž, Ivana, Ivana, Ivana, Ivana, Ivana, Ivana, Ivanaž, Ivanaž, Ivanaž, Ivanaž, Ivan, Slav, Ivanaž, Ivanaž, Slav, Slav, Ivan, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Slav, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Slav, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Slav, Slav, Ivan, Slav, Slav, Ivan, Slav, Slav, Slav, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Slav, Slav, Slav, Ivan, Ivan, Welcome to the National Assembly, to your house. The word has a People's MP, Kenan Hajdarevic, and after that, MP Miljan Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46075	The President-in-Office, respected minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the opening statement on the set of economic laws, Minister Kalanovic told us, among other things, that economic laws must provide answers to the current moment, at which the Serbian economy is located. For us from the LDP, in addition to these economic responses to the current economic situation in Serbia, we expect some political answers. Why political answers? Because if we want a better economy, we have to work harder, if we work harder, we need to know who we're going to sell our products to and where we're going to find the money that we can finance these products that we're going to produce. So, without a new policy, there is no new economy, no better responsibility and a more efficient economy there is no better life. Therefore, the LDP has also proposed a set of measures called a new policy, a new economy, where, among other things, we have foreseen that this set of economic measures contains a lower tax for young people under 35 years of age, easier to buy their first apartment, a reform of education where the accent will be placed on usable knowledge, a write-off of 10 euros in NIS debt, a zero VAT rate for basic food, the introduction of VAT payments only after payment of the claim. Each of these measures is cheaper and more efficient than any demagogue project offered to Serbia on the cost of taxpayers by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That is why we think that this set of amendments to economic laws is just another marketing move by one part of the government of the Republic of Serbia, but apparently in response to the second marketing move of the second part of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which presented a study on the post-crisis development model from 2010 to 2020 10 days ago. If it weren't for that, we would need Minister Jasna Matic here to tell us what kind of correlation these studies and these measures are, on the one hand, whether these measures have any footholds in the study. On the other hand, we need to be clear from the government of the Republic of Serbia, from ministers who represent the Government of the Republic of Serbia here to get an answer to one defeating fact, which is that from the beginning of 2010, Serbia has attracted the same amount of foreign investment as Montenegro, which is 15 times smaller than Serbia. Why did that happen? Is that even possible? Also, the government and ministers should give us answers to what business people in Serbia today need to deal with so that at the end of the month they can make such a profit that they must include a huge drop in the value of dinars. All of these are answers that we haven't received for a moment from a government representative who defends these economic laws here. Also, from the ruling coalition's representatives, we heard an argument about the deconcentration of the institutions offering these draft laws. However, we in the LDP think that the deconcentration of institutions cannot contribute to Serbia's decentralisation, i.e. that Serbia's decentralisation can only contribute to the deconcentration of power, that there is no such thing in these proposals. How else do we explain a simple fact that from month to month we have a situation where local self-government is increasingly collapsing, that no funds are given by law for the functioning of local self-government, and that in response to decentralisation, only the transfer of the seats of individual institutions of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is offered. Also, one can say the opposite effect, which is that the government here is talking about the deconcentration of institutions, i.e. the transition of some government institutions from Belgrade to Nis, Kragujevac and Užice, and we have witnessed that in the last six or seven years there has been a shift from small cities to the headquarters of some institutions to some so-called. Regional centers. So it's an example of Priboj, where I come from, where in the last six years 15 institutions have been transferred from Priboj to other regional institutions. If the Government of the Republic of Serbia wants to help underdeveloped municipalities through the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, it could very easily have proposed that during this crisis period in Serbia it would freeze the payment of the loan from users of the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia in these undeveloped areas. We think it's a much more efficient and better way, not in this way that the government of the Republic of Serbia is trying to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46076	The time available for the LDP parliamentary group has been used. The word has been issued by MP Miljan Rangelovic, followed by MP Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46077	Thank you for that word. Dear Presidency, honourable representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these days we have good news coming from the EU, and that is because much has been done in the years that are already behind us today. However, in order to become a full member of the EU, we need to do much more, we need to adopt new laws and we need to amend existing laws, bring them into line with the needs of society, because it is only the law that can be applied in society and from which society has some benefit. Today we are discussing laws that have been adopted relatively recently. They were at the moment at which they were written, at which the votes met the needs of the day and provided for the implementation of the existing plans. Serbia faces a huge problem today. Centralisation has cost Serbia a lot. If you look at the statistics, you will see that many places in eastern and southern Serbia had far more inhabitants than in 1948. You will see that these same places, many municipalities had more inhabitants in 1971 than today, 40 years later. We inherited municipalities, cities, whole regions that were absolutely undeveloped. That is why we have to do everything in order to give these areas of Serbia that have stagnated and collapsed for many years a chance to develop. It's a good thing we have a fast-growing Belgrade, and it's a good thing we have a Novi Sad that is well-accompanied by the development of the capital. It's great that we have a Kragujevac, which in the years ahead will be the best example of rapid development. But not only Belgrade, Kragujevac or Novi Sad Serbia and not only introduce Belgrade, Novi Sad or Kragujevac Serbia into the EU. Serbia is being introduced into the EU primarily by developed regions. Belgrade is already one of the places they say has a great nightlife, but Serbia is not only Belgrade at night, Serbia is not only Guca or Exit, it is not only Kopalnik and Zlatibor mountains in Serbia. I know we don't have seas like Croatia, I know we don't have developed spas like Hungary, I know we don't have cheap ski resorts like Bulgaria, and I know we don't have a popular lake like Macedonia. However, we also have mountains, and water rivers, and hunting sites and lakes, but they are simply not competitive with this part of Europe, and that is the topic of thinking for all of us. We must give all parts of Serbia a chance to find their place on our country's business and tourist map. In order to have developed regions, we must first of all ensure the development of infrastructure, because without it there are no new investors and there are no new jobs. The set of laws that are on the agenda today deals with exactly the team. Just now, one of my colleagues said that he doesn't see any connection between the laws that are in this set on the agenda. However, it is the link -- the development of all regions in Serbia. When we have few production plants that are stable, which is the only dream for young people in Serbia to find their jobs in the municipal administration, then tourism is one of the few grounds for survival primarily for these young people, and then their families in the places where they live. I can tell you the experiences from my region where up until a few years ago, you could have gotten some symbolic compensation for getting all the space on the Old Mountain. Today, the situation is such that every square meter costs several tenths of euros. Anyone from eastern Serbia knows what the development of the Old Mountain means to us. We already know today exactly how many new jobs we will have at the end of the first phase of the work on the Old Mountain, and we already know today that many young people from eastern Serbia will hire themselves in tourism. From talking to my peers, I realized that they understand very well the importance of the development of tourism in their municipalities. It's great that they have ideas about how to benefit personally and familyly from it, it's good that they have ideas about how to use tourism to provide themselves with the standard and lifestyle they dream of. In addition, with good relations and sound ideas, people who run municipalities in eastern Serbia are able to pour huge amounts of money into these otherwise undeveloped municipalities, if they are of course working on developing tourism potentials, and we all know that with the development of tourism there is a development of economy. It is important that today we send a message to change the laws that we have recently adopted so that they can follow the needs of our society, it is important that we send a message to tourists who have been deceived into doing everything and never do it again, it is important that we send a message to young people that we really try every day to provide them with a new chance so that they can make their dreams come true. It is important to send a message to the citizens of Serbia that we are not moving to Nis for political reasons, but that we are moving to Nis because Nis is the point that connects eastern and southern Serbia, the two most underdeveloped regions in our country, it is important to send a message that the Fund for Development reduces the difference between the Fund itself and citizens in kilometers, but essentially. The Development Fund simply needs to understand the needs of undeveloped parts of Serbia, and it will certainly do much better if its headquarters is where the greatest needs for our country's development are. I don't want Raca and Jura to be the only examples of development in Serbia, I don't want Kragujevac to be one of the few major cities that is rapidly developing and I don't want only my Old Mountain and my Književec municipality to be one of the few examples of development in Serbia. I just want the whole of Serbia to be a beautiful success story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46078	Five minutes and 20 seconds of MP time were used. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic, followed by MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46079	Today's agenda includes a set or a package of laws, since there cannot be a set of things that have nothing to do with one another, amendments and additions to the Tourism Act, as well as amendments and additions to the Employment and Insurance Act in case of unemployment and changes and additions to the Law on the Fund for Development and Amendments and additions to the Law on the Agency for Insurance and Financing of Exports. So, since we have found that there is no such thing as being common to this package of laws, that is, what should be a united debate, it is now only to be determined that the Minister of Telecommunications, Mrs Jasna Matic, has nothing to do with any of these laws, so that today MPs should discuss with a woman who is not in charge of this matter, about two completely different sets of laws. We adopted the Tourism Act in May 2009. It was a very large law. Today we have, a year and a half after that, about 67 members who change. It's somewhere slightly smaller than half the law is in a year and a half to change. What happened? Was it bad planning at the time, was the law prescribed from another center, so now we see that it is not usable or just something else going on? The fact is, today we have a situation that half the law needs to be changed. What people from different areas of tourism have warned us must be said. One of these things is the fact that 23 special banana rehabilitation hospitals have sought the help of the National Assembly, in order to achieve their law certain rights and secured rights, and to come in a position to be fully equal with all other tourism operators in this country. With these changes and additions to the Tourism Act, special banana rehabilitation hospitals will be in a completely unequal position compared to other tourism carriers, for example, homes, resorts that also provide tourist services, but also other hospitals, especially private hospitals. The amendments and additions of the Tourism Act are designed to require the banal hospitals for rehabilitation, which are budgetary users, for capacities beyond the contracts for the Republic Health Insurance Institute, to seek the consent of the Secretary-General, in this case the Minister of Economy, which is the paradox of its kind, which is one of the terriblely large centralism, which is contrary to what in the next three points, which are united here, says that they should lead to decentralisation and then we have a situation where you introduce centralism in one law, one very cruel centralism, and on the other hand you say that you have some laws where you destroy it. Special banana rehabilitation hospitals have survived various stages in the past few years, so they are now in a position to market for one half of their accommodation facilities, which is about 3,500 beds, to have a contract with the Republic Health Insurance Institute, and for this other half, or 3,500 beds with that offer, and then have to experience the situation of seeking consent from the Minister of Economy, i.e. Minister of Tourism, who is obviously understandable in the economy and tourism, because in the second term tourism does not let anyone else, although it is a very important branch for Serbia's development. This means that the economy minister has a discretionary right to decide who will deal with tourism and under what conditions, which is nowhere in the world, and somewhere in the world does not exist when it comes to democratic government, because it is a job that needs to be done by someone completely different and should in no way be given the discretionary right of someone to decide. This brings us to the issue of corruption, and then we come to the point that we are on corruption, even though we are publicly pushing for the fight against corruption, we are still just falling on the scale. Now we're about 83rd on that scale. I have to ask a question – what if it weren't for such a dramatic and important fight against corruption in this country? The Minister of Economy, or Tourism, has now remembered special banana rehabilitation hospitals, but it is only the current state. He'll remember very soon homes and resorts, when they're in a situation where they can take some of them away. What else is very interesting? It's an interesting fact that you're asking that this approval that the Minister of Economy is to issue to the Banjska Rehabilitation Hospitals is only valid for a year. Is it possible that someone who works in government, who should organize the life of institutions and institutions in this country doesn't know about planning for more than a year? I can't believe someone's serious can believe that some facility, some resort, some institution's only planning for a year. What about long-term planning? Have you heard anything about it or is planning only while this government is going on, and when this government leaves this scene, which should happen as soon as possible so that Serbian citizens can breathe and live, then more planning doesn't have to exist? What else is problematic? If they adopt these changes and supplement the Tourism Act, then special banana rehabilitation hospitals have to reduce their capacities and fire workers, then the promise from the Mr. Touch Minister's campaign to have 200,000 people involved in a job, or here, 200,000 people will be out of work for the government's term, and the promise was that 200 thousand people will be employed. I would now like to mention these three laws and fourths relating to amendments and additions to the Law on the National Agency for Regional Development, which has also been adopted here, to say that these three laws – are also amendments and additions to the Employment and Insurance Act in the event of unemployment, amending and supplementing the Law on the Fund for Development, amending and supplementing the Law on the Agency for Insurance and Financing of Exports – are actually the bosses of the same minister. These are laws that have only one same goal, which is -- how to fill in the party funds for the money of Serbian citizens, because the appointed minister realized that his party no longer has a chance to appear in the parliamentary sky of Serbia and the real reserve party of the united region of Serbia, which is also costing, so it is very important that each law finds the funds of Serbian citizens to support these parties and for the future campaign of the appointed minister and his parties. What did Mr. Dinkic come up with, who never shows up here when we talk about laws like this? Here's what he's up to. The Development Fund headquarters will be moved to Nis by the end of November, the head office of the Insurance and Export Finance Agency will be in Uzic in the future. I guess it should be a gift to Užic for such a bad Regional Development Act, and the seat of the National Employment Service will be in Kragujevac. It is amazing but I must mention this also that the National Agency for Regional Development has already moved its headquarters from Belgrade to Zaječar and these are all the cities that should be cities where Mr Dinkic's campaign will start and rise, because there are people who will represent these united regions. What we need to answer to this question, he says in an explanation of this law that all of this is about decentralisation and decentralisation. I have to ask a few questions – did Mr. Minister ever read any of the books in the area of sociology that explain what decentralisation is? decentralisation didn't move one seat to another. It doesn't matter. No one in their right mind can say that it should not be Uzice, but Valjevo, that it should not be Nis, but Valjevo, that it should not be Kragujevac, but Valjevo, because then we will intertwine which city is important for Serbia, except for those where these ministers are favorites from its united regions. That won't allow itself a DSS. She wants the principle on which she rests this move to comment and points out to Serbian citizens that it has nothing to do with decentralisation, nothing to do with rationalisation, because in the beginning, she says in the light of the law, the whole management of the staff from these institutions to travel where these new seats will be, which I don't know how smart it is, travels to us by the prosecution, travels to us courts, travels to us now and to the administration. We'll have a traveling circus on the roads, and the institutions will be empty. He goes on to say, and if he doesn't want to travel by accident, that's what he tells them, but in those small areas, we're going to hire some new young people who, now I'm adding, are going to be the bearers of our political development campaign and who are likely to become directors of these important institutions with a career of 0.2 months. Not to mention that these institutions have nothing to do with the transfer of their headquarters to their work. In the explanation that it will now be further in other cities, that we from Valjev do not feel threatened, there will be a branch, and we will have a new network of administrations that will be rich and how to cost the citizens of Serbia, and in fact there will be a political network of united regions so that they will still enter parliament in the next elections. So, since I explained how ridiculous all these things are that you want to push us under the password of decentralisation and decentration, which, of course, can't be, I just have to say that it means, in common for this first law on changes and additions to the Tourism Act for these three, what it is to raise money for its party, Mr Dinkic, and all about the cost of Serbian citizens. Let me say one more thing, just to remind those who do it. In the political sky there was and was Minister Dusan Mihajlovic, by chance my Valjevac, had a New Democracy party. Since he was doing all of this the same thing Mr Dinkic did, he realized that it was best to change the name of his party and that it has since been called Liberal Serbia. They also failed to convince citizens at the time that they were some new party, so I guess Mr Dinkic must work some new spin for Serbian citizens because as he thinks it's forgotten what he's been doing since 2000, it seems he can't, it seems that Serbian citizens can finally remember what's been going on for a little over 10 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46080	12 minutes and 15 seconds of MP time were used. The People's MP Srdjan Milivojevic has the word, followed by MP Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46081	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry and the state institutions that you are following this debate today, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, but above all, the respected citizens of Serbia, when we have such important points on the agenda of one session of the Assembly, and when someone does not understand what is the common denominator of all these points of the agenda, it must be asked whether his incomprehension should be dominant in this hall or whether it should be the dominant wish of the citizens of this country to live as a normal world in the great family of European people. What brings us all together here who will vote for these laws together is a fundamental desire and intention to make Serbia a great family of European peoples. I will remind you that in the last meeting of the Republic Parliament, we have also been Members of the Parliament and that I have attended a debate that lasted six weeks and that in six weeks we have debated only and exclusively according to the Rules of Procedure and that in six weeks we have managed to discuss only one amendment with severe interruptions. That time, fortunately, is far behind us and today we make up for that time we missed. Anyone who wants to put obstacles on that path, anyone who doesn't realize at what rate that path should take place and at what speed it should move on that path, has the right to know and not understand the situation, but has no right to try to stop the planet because not many have succeeded before it. I'm going to talk about all these laws today, but first of all, I want to say something about a very important law, about amendments and additions to the Tourism Act. Tourism is a very important activity from which Serbia has the opportunity to improve its balances and its economic position and to improve the picture of unemployment in Serbia. Anyone who does not understand the importance of tourism as the potential of the Republic of Serbia has the right to live in his ignorance, but I am here above all to point out several important things that this law regulates. First, if one law is corrected after a year and a half in practice, it does not mean that someone wrote to us abroad and submitted a new bill but that practice has shown that this law can be further improved by further changes to the benefit of the country's citizens. What exactly doesn't answer me in this law? In this law in Article 32, which says it is the headquarters of a tourist organisation in Belgrade, and I would move this organization right to Vrnjačka Banja right at the moment of the attacks by some representatives of opposition parties because we are moving to Nis. I think people in Vranjska Banja and how they know how to deal with tourism. It is true that Belgrade is making huge profits and huge money from tourism and Belgrade is the capital, people come and because of business obligations, young people come to spend, people come to sports events and competitions, but people come to Vrnjačka Banja, people come to Kopalnik too, people come to Zlatibor. As Kruševljanin, I have no problem with Belgrade being a beautiful and developed city, but I love that Kruševac is developing, and I am particularly pleased today when one agency is moving to Užice and when one institution is moving to Nis, because the essential decentralisation of Serbia and the essential efforts to integrate Serbia into the EU will only take place if each part of Serbia develops evenly. What is particularly unclear in the law, and it really merits certain thinking that has not shown itself well in practice, is Article 79, which says that certain rules regarding this law, that certain conditions for the exercise of some activity are determined closer by the minister. What does that mean in practice? In practice, it means next. There are people in Kraševec and Leskovec and Čačka and Valjevo who have also made an immeasurable contribution to the development of hospitality. I have been talking and communicating with these people every day for more than 15 years, and I have been doing this very fine work called hospitality for more than 15 years. That's where we come up with one big problem. Very often the provisions that are subsequently prescribed are not enforceable and are not in line with the real situation on the ground. Once the catering facilities were built 20 years ago, and now if we decide that this catering facility should have four toilets, two men and two women and plus one staff, the catering facility will be closed before we can adapt it to modern business requirements. On the other hand, as I said in Kruševec, and in Leskovac, there are people in Cačka and Valjev who have and how they have developed this catering business. I will suggest that before any decision, regulation or law is made, people from the ministry form a piece of advice that will make the best people involved in this catering work in some cities of Serbia. I don't know a man, but when I get into Leskovac, I see a man with a series of catering facilities called ABC. The man built a great restaurant, a great coffee shop. Ask this man - excuse me, sir, what will this law look like in practice? In Kruševec you have very good restaurants called IT. Ask the restaurant owner – I'm sorry... I understand the gentleman who says he's sorry that he's freed places on the balcony worse than these people, there's room for you in the next meeting, sir. They'll come down, you'll go up. Now take a pen and paper and listen carefully, take notes, maybe learn something before you switch to the balcony. So in Kruševec there is a catering facility called IT. Ask this woman what it will look like in practice to apply these laws and what it means when such regulations and laws are passed. On the other hand, here very often when we pass a law as if I attend that Nostradamus has risen from somewhere, there are already completed cataclysms in Serbia, here is a new revelation, new announcements of disaster, each law is a new disaster on the announcements of some people from the opposition, every law is an opportunity to criticise the government. We just heard that citizens can no longer breathe while this government is looking forward to Vojislav Kostunica being the Deputy Prime Minister again. A hundred years without air, no one can stand it, so I understand your concern to return to power as soon as possible, but someone will come to power or not, and whether they will run this country doesn't wonder who has such ambitions, they're asking the citizens of this country. The citizens of this country have given you the mandate to change this country for the better. When it comes to some institutions that were mentioned here, I must commend the Development Fund. It is an institution that has also enabled good economic development, good job creation, an incentive for many people with good ideas and no money. I was distracted by the sentence that the people who run those institutions had two months' work experience. The lady who is here from the Development Fund, however, has only 25 years of work experience, may be less than some people have mandated and a job internship carried out in parliamentary benches, but it is quite enough for someone to be very responsible for handling the institution, whether she is in Nis, Krusevec or Belgrade. Is this institution working well or not? It's not about judging political parties, it's about those people who were in a position to realize their business ideas, to realize them, to make themselves professionally come true using the Fund's credits for development. This is what I'm gonna end up with. Very often, the opposition finds in all these laws the possibility that, first of all, it is malicious to criticise the adoption of these laws and to move from the field of legislation to politics, to bring political judgments, in accordance with its own understanding, on the impact of some political parties. Very often we have one question, I heard that a little while ago, and also the other day when this debate was under way – are you normal? I have to answer - yes, I do, which is what we want for you. Let us now continue to work as normal people, in the normal atmosphere, to skip two steps on the road to the EU, because Serbia has no time to wait. See the tourist complexes that are currently abandoned in Serbia and are also left as a mockery of cities where these complexes have been standing for 10, 15 or 20 years. Can these complexes be completed without the help of the state? The Vranjska Banja Hotel "Star" has been built for 25 years. I was a kid when I was in Vranjska Banja, and that's when the big complex started to be built. You can't do that without the help of the state. In one hotel in Serbia, as well as in shopping centres, there are moving stairs. Look at those moving stairs, they're the best picture of Serbia today, any moving stairs in the mall or in a hotel in Serbia, see what they look like? Our people stand by two, three on moving stairs, relying on those moving stairs, long ago driving loaded things and their worries. Look at the escalator in Japan. On the right there are old and powerless, weary pensioners, possibly small children and pregnant women, and on the left hand of the moving stairs there is room left for those who want to go ahead and they, climbing two steps, move up those moving stairs. This is your difference today between the opposition and the government in Serbia. We're going up the escalator to take two steps and jump, some are standing on the right and blocking the path of those who are in a hurry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46082	Ten minutes and 55 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word has a folk MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46083	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens of Serbia, I have to deal with this set of amendments and additions to the law and in general the law to give the accent to the amendments and additions to the Tourism Act. Before that, regardless of all the comments in this room, I must really wonder if it is possible for a congregation procedure to pass a little time without entering a law that was passed not so long ago, and very quickly experiencing changes and additions of the law. Let's go back. Regardless of the pace we're working on and the number of laws passed, I can't remember a session that's been scheduled lately without any changes or additions to her agenda not so long ago. Unfortunately, such fate is also experienced by the Tourism Act. I am not saying this from the aspect of the important changes that are evident and which should be on the agenda today, but simply when the law was passed, for example, the category of rural tourism that is among the most important in Southeast Europe and as such in Serbia should not have been omitted in such a way as to include it in the draft law on amendments and additions. The adopted Tourism Act had 132 members, I have to remind the public. How much serious approach was made then is also the fact that we have 62 members on the agenda today of the amendments and the addition of the Tourism Act. So much for the seriousness of the promoters, I am not talking about one ministry since this is not the only law in the area, I am also talking about the Government of the Republic of Serbia when it sends a certain law to the assembly procedure in a particular area. Not to mention the fact of how much the citizens of Serbia cost such a evident failure by the government of the Republic of Serbia. I will try to bring that fact a little closer to the citizens of Serbia in the case of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tourism Act. That's where I have to go back, because life doesn't start, and neither does tourism to any political party. A change in tourism development and the exchange of tourism strategy began in 2006 when a tender was launched on the development of Serbia's development strategy in the coming period. I can't help but mention, when and when the law was passed, the fact that, in addition to the competition and the eminent Serbian tourismologists, one so pompously presented company at the world level, apparently the American Horvat Consalting was brought and elected as performer and realiser of the Serbian tourism development strategy. When you go online and search the mentioned house more seriously, you will see that it is not only not American, it has not only made 25 development strategies for certain tourist destinations and the development of tourism of certain countries, but you can imagine it has not even made a development strategy for its country. Its headquarters is in Zagreb. So she did not participate in the development strategy of the Republic of Croatia which is seriously involved in tourism, but, for example, she received one sub-destination, a tourist destination, or an Istrian region, and was engaged in the development strategy of the region. I cannot help but mention the situation that then several thousand tourist MPs participated in the event, in travels, excursions, to see and record what they should implement in the Serbian tourism economy. I can't not mention the data, because I'm a participant in all of this, let's just say it's one of the most serious world tourismists, a lecture from the Internet search area and Google search engines, all this says about the seriousness of the development strategy. A few years after all of this, we see what stage it is in and how far it is embedded in Serbia's tourism economy. How much money did this cost the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia? Somewhere orientative between two and three million. What would happen to the development strategies of certain tourist destinations? At this first moment, and for those I know clearly, and part of them, and I participated, there were 11 of them. If not for "Singidum" and "Argus" university MPs, the question is what would really resemble these development strategies of these tourist destinations. On this occasion, I cannot help but deal with the lack of seriousness of relations, but really with the lack of seriousness of the relationship between the Serbian Tourist Organisation for a certain period. I must remind you, nothing personal, but not to be forgotten, of the situation when Miss Cubrilo was the director of the Serbian Tourist Organisation and which Zlatibor and Zlatar, the tourist destinations were then, at some point, to connect with Nis, for example. I cannot help but mention the situation that Serbia is infrastructureally unprepared, still unmarked by the signalling, normally, is presented at tourist fairs that are really too expensive. I can't help but remind you of performances in the 25 most important foreign media outlets that cost a lot, and I can't help but remind you of those missed CNN videos and the other things we've been doing. All that when you add up, along with the drafting of the tourism law and now with this situation to discuss it after less than a year and a half, you come up with a figure that making various legal acts from this area cost more than four million euros. What's that compared to, I have to tell you? This is a complete factory infrastructure for 2,500 new jobs. Because of such failures and because of development strategies that are not in line with strategies from other areas that are clearly working to do something, we have a situation that we have been denied subsidies in agriculture, we have a situation that there are regions without Serbia's internality. No region on paper helps, when there are no more citizens in Serbia's interior. Apparently, unfortunately, and tragic. What will happen, for example, to the tourist destination of the Stara Planina, when you have no people at that destination and you will not be taking tourist workers from Belgrade to the Old Mountain daily to do serious work and to develop tourism in the area? This is a situation in which, in a small and very often, we are brought not by this, but by the previous governments. I must mention once again what my distinguished colleague Pelevic mentioned, and this is the situation that this government, which is a bit of a Ginis recordr, does not have the Ministry of Tourism and that tourism is somewhat located in all ministries, even the Ministry of Labour. Somehow the last name Milosavljevic has been evident in the last 10 years related to tourism, not related to which area, but it is indeed facts and facts. What happened, say, in the last ten years in the field of health tourism? I have to give you an example from this area, this is not a local assembly, but unfortunately, local congregations have no authority and do not deal with these issues because they are the authorities of the Republic Government, and that is why I have to mention in this Parliament and this situation. We have an example of the Republic of Zlatar center from Nova Varosha. For years, he has been involved in prevention and rehabilitation, patients from the cardiovascular area. We have a situation where patients at 1,250 feet above sea level who have been diagnosed with rheumatology are likely to be treated at this RH center. Paradox, you'll have to admit it. We have a situation, say, that this area has been taken over by Niška Banja. I don't mind. It's just that kid's 10 years old looks ridiculous. Why is that happening? Because "Zlatar", as a tourist destination in the former SFRY that has been in the past 20 years, there is no necessary and necessary lobby in all the governments that have been in the past 20 years. We have a situation, let's say, that in addition to this fact, as a tourist destination, the Republic of Croatia has saved many people from the problem of cardio-vascular disease and pre-infarct and heart condition from all these parts, and today you have a situation that daily, unfortunately, I have to mention the fact, patients from this area on the road from Prepolje, Pribo, Nova Varosha or Sjenice do not experience and do not welcome the doctor on the way to Užica. These are the failures, and these are the dances that we make with our state institutions, with our people, and that is why Serbia's interior remains clearly recognised and we don't need any regions on paper if this is what it looks like or what it looks like. In order not to be a complete criticism, it is really not a criticism, but simply a problem in this area, I must remind you of the situation once again from rural tourism and the finding that Serbia has become a leader in this area for good luck. I can't help but mention the base and the area of development loans. The resolution ministry, unfortunately, does not exist, but this problem is addressed by the Ministry of Agriculture. I also have to realise the fact that, for example, local tourism organisations are not at all involved in the engagement and realization and control of loans from rural tourism, or the development of rural tourism. Is it possible that a local tourist organization that is clearly aware of the situation on its own ground and even deals with the categorization of rural households will not be in connection with the Ministry of Agriculture and their commission which cannot seem to assess the applications submitted because they are all almost the same, on the same scale, and that in this area the situation that is in my area is happening, that pioneers from that area who were ten years ago have not yet received funds from this area.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46084	I give my word to Ambassador Munir Poturk.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46085	Dear Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, what I wanted today to try to pass on, regarding amendments to the Tourism Act and the Development Fund, to find a link between these two laws, is to try to draw people's attention to what benefits our citizens can benefit from these two laws. The intensity of the amendments to the Tourism Act is to strengthen the security and protection of our citizens who travel, who use tourist services and to provide tourist agencies financially and to provide security funds for the organisation of tourist arrangements; so that our citizens, as users of tourist services, can have more, depends on how much we in certain areas of this Serbia can highlight these potentials, regulate and use them both for our own and for our sides. I would like people at Sandzak's space to understand how much potential they have and to share with all relevant, professional institutions of the state of Serbia and tourist destination, these cultural goods are more highlighted, to gain international importance, because in one place the history of two peoples, two cultures, two civilizations, long historical events through material and traditional features, through food, through habits. People are used to living among themselves, sharing both the good and the bad things that are happening. If the moment, if it is an opportunity, if it is a chance, if it is a chance, then these difficult years are a chance to raise what is valuable in our area to one level that people will benefit from, from which people will be able to live. There are few of them in our area that have used all these rural potentials that they have to settle their homes, that someone might come to use and deal with rural tourism, because above all our people are not even economically secure, they don't have enough money to start their initial business and to provide funds for both the Development Fund or any other institution, or even commercial banks. Because often people in villages have no way, the form of an organization that will be able to represent them and protect them and provide them with such conditions. They all perform as independent natural persons as farmers. Nothing literally worked out in one way, where they could or through some tourist cooperatives, agricultural cooperatives to connect tourism and what is possible in the country to have a healthy environment and healthy food. We're here somewhere in that space, on that buckle stopped. Simply, that bond, that bridge of financial resources to allow people who could commercially live, to be self-sustainable from their own arranged rooms, one or two, in the country and that someone could come. I'm not just talking about infrastructure. We understand that it takes a lot of money. Many at the local level arrange it with their local plans, but one living activity is needed, a programme of measures that should be defined in detail for people who can live in rural areas, in rural and undeveloped areas. Such a space, all six municipalities, plus Raška, plus Ivanica, which everyone literally treats through development programmes, are among the 48 most underdeveloped municipalities in Serbia. What I'd like to say through the Development Fund has been very helpful to the economy in our area, but it's not enough. It's not enough because the economy in our space is not accumulative, it's not dynamic and it's not competitive. Unfortunately, from the past we inherited the textile industry, we inherited the shoe industry. The furniture producers were in one phase in expansion thanks to the Development Fund, and then there are no incentive funds for exports and somewhere in that domain the specific measures programme for our area should see if we are so equal on our market, on the financial market, and on the Development Fund, and on Siepa, and on other institutions with some who have a future, because they have an industry that can be competitive, where they invest in labour that is being trained to be competitive, compared to what we currently have with the textile industry. It's a good potential because people grew up, younger people grew up next to their parents under the "Raška" TK, which was once 7,000 people employed, which today doesn't create or do anything. The shoes "Ras" that hired 3,000 workers, who hasn't worked for 20 years, but they remained these small man-factory workshops that could have picked up some of that workforce. The most valuable thing in all of this is the people who grew up next to these textile and shoe machines in those workshops. It's not made overnight, it takes years, generations to create someone responsible, to know how it works. That's good potential for us. Unfortunately, this economy in these areas is not capable and strong enough to be able to be positive, so that it can provide all the documentation, accreditation, guarantees, so that it can withdraw regular funds from the Development Fund. Unlike the Vojvodina Development Fund, a development bank has been formed that is directed somewhere towards these businesses. Please, as much as any influence from you, it is necessary that we go somewhere towards these small and medium-sized entrepreneurs or companies that hire and five workers, they are very important to us. Perhaps now we are much more important and more important to those who are still swimming, yet, to say the least, their head above the water and struggle to survive to keep the number of workers who are currently employed. They may be more important than fighting for some who should come. Those who come have money and know what they want and know what the market is and what market to be on. For those who have been fighting in our space for years, those who have been through all the troubles in the 1990s and today, when they know and when there is and when it is gone, it is a chance to make somewhere to survive the next, it seems to me, two years, as long as it takes. If we find a connection between tourism and the potential that we have and find a connection between institutions that need to support these small underdeveloped ones, then this law on tourism and transfer, or decentralisation of institutions at a republican level by parts that are not developed, or which should be like moving agencies to start certain areas with their potentials, then this is a good law. For this reason as an MP, as a representative of the Sandzak Democratic Party, I will vote for these laws, with a message that our businessmen, our citizens, will see the benefits of our laws as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46086	I give my word to Vice President Natashi Jovanovic
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46087	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, within this strange set of laws that absolutely do not have points of contact with each other, in the context of both the resolutions and the debates that are to be held in plenary debate, I will talk about the Law on Tourism, and as much time as I will have from the SRS parliamentary group that I can barely complete this very complex continent and the business branch of Serbia which the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not deal with in a serious and strategic way. Unfortunately, the consequences of this are misery and poverty and hospitality, tourism and among those involved in this business, extremely low earnings and the indifference of former social enterprises, and now those bought by some tycoons for small money and people lost their jobs. What's saddest of all, Madam President, is that we no longer have that portfolio, or the Ministry of Tourism, which is a big mistake. This law, whose amendments and additions are now to be passed, is much worse than the law that was passed in 2005, when we had a portfolio for trade and tourism and the DOS government was trying in some serious way to deal with this problem, which failed even then, and only now in 2010, the consequences of the catastrophic economic policy certainly feel this economic branch, which, as estimated by the World Tourism Organisation, should be one of the drivers of Serbia's development, which is unfortunately not. We have seen from these changes and additions that the Serbian government is inconclusive and that at the moment, or the order of the Brussels office, it must carry out further harmonisation with the law you claimed in 2009 that it was perfect, that nothing better could happen than that for the area of tourism. Then why are you changing it now? You admitted, because those from Brussels, who run Serbia and who put all economic and economic flows under their paws, say something is wrong. In fact, there's a lot of things in this law that aren't in order, of the 1st member, the 2nd member, of the notional things you haven't heard about to define after so many years. I can't go with Mrs Matic right now, because it's simply not her portfolio, and it's not understood that I'm talking about a professional, serious debate, when it comes to the tourism sector, because there's no one who could, and we don't have a real ministry, but we've tried, we Serbian radicals, amendments, at least to do something to improve, not to insult people who deal with this area, to introduce new concepts that live and exist in real life, in people who make it out of this area, to enter those categories. Secondly, we have seen that we are merely declaring co-operation with certain associations, first of all, such as the Association of Tourist Agencys in Serbia and others that exist, which are not so massive, because people no longer have the strength or will to point out to you what is happening in reality and what coincidences they suffer because of the bad laws, because this law is not passed because of the economic reasons for the development of tourism activity, if the drivers are in business, but for purely political reasons, the political reason for you to court Brussels and, on the other hand, not to listen to people who deal with one of the branches in the field of tourism. So the Serbian Chamber of Commerce organised on September 7th this year in a community with a group of Banish and climate places in Serbia, a serious meeting and warned the Serbian government and the Ministry of Economy not to bring such an amendment and a supplement to the Tourism Act but to do something about the development of Banish and climate places in Serbia, the so-called "Tourism Act". health tourism whose concept you do not know in this law, to comply with their laws, and that the 23 ban and climate places we have in Serbia are not treated differently from other entities in the field of tourism. Of course, you didn't want to listen to it, or the Serbian government, and now we have one member of the law that other party colleagues have submitted to the amendment, but I see a PUPS parliamentary group, because that's what Đuro Peric was talking about the other day, that, they say, and that's part of the coalition in the government, is inadmissible for them to treat banish places dealing with health tourism in this way. This law does not even know rural tourism in the right sense of words. I was just listening to my fellow ZES MP, so where is this European future and the development of rural tourism, when such small funds, as he just admitted, are investing? Also in 2001, the World Tourism Organisation warned Serbia that it must be strictly based on the development of rural, rural, ethnic, agrarian, business tourism, warned that we must recover agriculture before we can reach the development of rural tourism at all. How will you peasants in the villages around Ivanjica, say, in the Prilicas, Kušići, Katići, who have incredible climate conditions, which have a geographical position, which are friendly, as with me in Šumadia, as well as in Kolubara, as in the area of Vlasotina, in the area of Surdulica, etc., to go in order in Serbia, to convince him that he must think positively about the future, when he maintains a cattle fund? How, when there's no excess food and he barely maintains a simple reproduction of cattle, vegetables and everything for himself and his household, when what he puts on the market doesn't know, he's always a cat in a sack, for which there's no ransom guaranteed? How are you going to mention from these villages, which are engaged in livestock, potato production, and potatoes are thrown into tonnes, because the import lobby that imports potatoes from the Netherlands is incoherent, because it is held by Miskovic, Beko and others, to convince him that he needs to be defined and that he is doing what is truly meaningful and what would be good, when he has no means for it? You know, in Serbia it's 90% so-called. rural areas and populations, and among them 40% of those who are not employed, or who besides, I would say, your violent registration of agricultural households, do not have the opportunity to apply, to pay taxes and contributions to pension and social security. Why? Because they don't have the money to handle it. I'm listening to this "smart" Milivojevic from DS just now, he says – there is a flowering hospitality in Kruševec. I really don't know if he got what we all got, and the other day I mentioned it, and that's the Union's employers' newsletter, the exact data and the table. Look, for an average catering facility in Serbia, it takes a month to single out 648,377 dinars. The notes mentioned here are really unsustainable and with an average of three to five employees, they are mostly private facilities that have extremely small salaries. In the countries to which you are invited and where rural tourism is developed, where health tourism, excess labour, even up to 40, is developed, is employed through the development of agrarian, or rural tourism. We don't have enough food. Here, now there's meat shortages, milk shortages in Serbia. Who's producing that? Why was Serbia brought to the level of African countries? We don't have enough to eat, and when we don't have enough food, it goes in some logic and in a row, that and economists and those who deal with agrarians know, to produce enough food for export and to earn income, then you can only count on someone to host and receive, that happiness is a few hundred thousand tourists in the rural area. We don't have that. Then we're surprised about that, and you obviously don't care about that, which 4,800 villages in Serbia we lose every year. How? Well, they disappear, for no one in them survives, nor works, nor sees his way out. 400-500 people move to Belgrade daily, on an annual level, it's much more, because they go to bigger cities, there's a better chance and greater happiness, they think. Was there ever one of you in Black grass? Do you know how many Black Weeds as a municipality have inhabitants? I think 1,800 on the record of those who live there, about 900 registered voters. When Mrs. Radeta and I were there two years ago in the campaign, people welcomed us with tears, happy that someone came, and when we started saying, the question is when will someone else come here? For what? Did you see that environment, did you see that beauty of nature and the ability to invest there? Where are those investments? Many of you, especially certain ministers from the government, such as Culture Minister Nebojsa Bradic, have an exceptional aversion to what is Serbia's cultural and ethnic heritage, so none of you ever appear in Guca. However, sometimes one of the officials comes to take a picture, to open the event, and where are you to help what is the true Serbian heritage and what is the Serbian brand, where there were almost a million people this year? Some symbolic money, but what is worth to them when before that the city destroyed everything in Luciani and the environment and direct damage, because there was no anti-urban protection, amounts to several million euros, and you gave them a small pair to organize a event that promotes Serbia, which promotes our culture, our music, etc. There are many such events throughout Serbia: Wine days held in Alexandrovac every year; Cupusiada, which is already a Serbian brand, which is being held in Mrcajevci: everything that happens on Zlatibor, Cheese Days, promotion of the Goldibor prosciutto, etc., but none of these people can seriously count on the government, because when we leave, and we Serbian radicals love, because we patriots, love our customs and our culture, let us face the fact that people from local tourist organisations or those who are the bearers of these projects say that this is not at all interested in the government of Serbia. Why do we have exceptional conditions to develop health tourism in addition to rural, rural, ethnic tourism? Many countries in the world have also recovered their economy, such as Brazil, Indonesia, India, etc., and many of the countries in Europe that are known even between the two world wars, because of the fact that we have an extremely qualified professional staff, primarily in the area of health and because of the fact that this tourist component of the city, through the development of health tourism, is extremely suitable for development and other tourism, which is the cultural, entertainment and any other aspect that could contribute to a much higher rate of tourists coming to Serbia. Slobodan Milosavljevic made a fantastic statement in 2003. He was then a resolute minister of trade and tourism and said that in 2010 millions of tourists will come to Serbia, all will flourish, we will have from the arrival of those guests at least two billion dollars in annual incomes. Today, the situation is extremely difficult also because of the fact that although some categorisation of hotel tourist facilities has been carried out, in Belgrade alone we have 10,000 beds to sleep without talking about other major cities in Serbia. Let's say in Bor, not to mention the name of that owner and that hotel, a man made a three-star hotel, he might also get categorized by four, alone from his own resources, without any development fund, without any additional help from the state. It's the same case for a similar facility in Kruševec, Mr. Duvnjak knows, not to advertise it. Neither Srdjan Milivojevic nor any of these yellow ones helped this gentleman, but the man himself went to work and made such objects. Ethnotourism is something Serbia's future is. We think that anyone who should be responsible, above all for the Serbian peasant, should tell the truth, and that is that today we cannot survive as a country dealing with agriculture and livestock because of the fact that 7,500 heroes a year should be in our customers, and there are only 2,500, everything else is import and meat will be announced to collect 30%. Not to mention the fact that contributions and taxes on catering services are much greater than in the surrounding countries. When you have no ear to help anyone, as you took a picture of yourself in the campaign when one part of the roof on the old building was fixed in the Arangelovac, everything remained that way, since May no one has been there. When you have not singled out the funds you had under the NIP project for the Republic of Croatia, the Bukovica Banja centre is already collapsing from year to year, then at least be honest and tell the Serbian citizens that you are unable to do so. I will conclude with one of the information you may have heard, which has been published on all media sites, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, that those who try to catch Serbian hero general Ratko Mladic for 10m euros have tried this today in an ethnicity in Serbia, more specifically in the Ethnosela Baik near Arandelovac. Of course they didn't do anything, because General Mladić, if you don't, will never be caught on your side and those who help you, no matter how much reward you make. What Mr. Martinovic said the other day -- there is not a single Serb, any Serbian patriot who, for hundreds of millions of euros, or I don't know what kind of reward a famous Serbian general would give. You try, as you failed in Baja this morning, so we are looking forward to the whole patriotic Arangelovac and Serbia, and you will not succeed in the future, but don't tell us any more stories about a better future, about the EU, we are against entering it, Serbian radicals, because Serbia is not a place there and because such EU laws and projects have led us to this point that our economy has been destroyed and that we have so many unemployed people.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46088	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46089	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have before us a proposal on amendments to the Tourism Act. At the very beginning, the DS will support this law for two basic reasons. Privi is because he provides an opportunity for self-employment and employment in rural areas, in the area of our village and in areas that have the capacity to do so. On the other hand, we will support this law because it creates greater legal certainty for the other Contracting Party, i.e. passengers and guests contracted by tourist agencies, who have not so far had the most punitive legal protection. I would like to stress that the potentials of tourism, along with the recycling industry in Serbia, may have the greatest perspective when it comes to the development of the economy. We could also agree that tourism is currently not at an envious level with us, that tourism capacities are not fully exploited. This applies primarily to the already mentioned Banish tourism, but I would say ecotourism, rural tourism, as well as tourism relating to cultural and historical sights and other areas of tourism that are still not experiencing significant successes in our country, especially for the reasons that the state has so far not even had adequate legal regulations, on the one hand, and on the other hand that economic measures were not valid to encourage people in the countryside to deal with tourism and in general to develop this branch of economy. At the end of 2009, a tourism law was adopted, which now endures certain changes. They are not only technical, there are fundamental changes, but as explained in the explanation of the amendments and addition of this law, individual analysis of the situation on the tourist market and the problems faced by tourist workers, the actors of the tourism economy, demanded some changes. Now let me say something about the first reason why I think MPs should support these amendments and supplement the law. They further develop the possibility of establishing a rural tourist household where accommodation, food and drink services can be provided, and above all, it is important that the rural rural area is concerned. This created legal assumptions that the rural population is more actively involved in Serbia's tourist offer through the offer of its domestic products, through farm products, from its own land in the authentic domestic atmosphere. I would disagree with my predecessor, who said in one part of the exposure that agricultural products are being dumped, and in another part of the exposure, that we do not have enough products to deal with rural tourism. Some of it's not true, I'd say neither. There are enough products in the Serbian village, but it is necessary to amend the law to create better conditions, as well as economic measures that would speed up rural tourism. The implementation of these measures, in addition to amending the law, requires a responsible state policy that will encourage these activities. I agree, dealing with rural tourism is in some way an area concerning several ministries, both the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Environment and other ministries, let's say the Ministry of Culture, because without adequate roads, without adequate travel network, it is difficult to expect significant developments in this area of tourism without concern. After the adoption of the Tourism Act just over a year ago, there were positive shifts. I will give an example of Vojvodina, specifically Zrenjanin, since 2009 there have been thirty tourist agricultural holdings that are successfully engaged in ecotourism. They also hired their families, but in some ways they included parts of these rural areas. There are similar examples throughout Vojvodina, but there are also in Zlatibor and other places in Serbia. However, we are still far from what some of us have done creatively. An example of Slovenia you probably already know, that there are literally country-run grandmothers involved in tourism, people in the country are involved in making domestic products, bonding, braiding, selling souvenirs, offering accommodations, and in some ways they have developed, i.e. they have raised the employment of the rural population. It is one of the significant perspectives and possibilities of our economy, because that is the only way we will keep young people in the country, and on the other hand reduce unemployment. This law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act has created the possibility of registering catering facilities in domestic work. They're not just about villages, they can register in the urban area. In any case, what is very important is that registration of rural tourist farms does not mean the need to set up a business, to start a company. It is enough for a natural person to sign up to a tourism register run by the Agency for Business Registers and to start work. However, I would draw attention to the government, someone was already talking about, that sublegal acts should not be an obstacle to the implementation of these legal provisions, but that they should help people who want to deal with this activity to cope more easily and to start doing their own private business which, I say, requires very little of them in this legal sense. The second reason the DS will vote for this law is in the fact that it creates greater legal security for guests, for tourists, for ordinary citizens who are clients of contracted foreign travel agencies, because it detaileds the licensing of tourist agencies and sets out the conditions for performing the activities of organising tourist travel. As an illustration of the provisions that protect the citizens, which protect the guests, passengers, it would indicate the addition in Article 56(5), which states: the wording of the general conditions of travel must be printed in letters and numbers of equal size, but not less than 12, and the data in item 4 of this article must be specifically framed. This attitude refers to the guarantee of travel. So, through these amendments and additions to the law, a way of printing general terms has been arranged. What does it matter? First of all, because the general conditions so far have been printed in fine print, barely visible, because the general conditions have been created at the expense of the weaker contracting party and the fact is that the general conditions have been drawn up by tourist agencies. I'll show, maybe the camera can see this, or zoom in. I'm sure you won't be able to identify the cameraman, or anyone else, because there's just some hints of a letter, that would be hard to read through a microscope or a shovel. This is what the general terms of the business of a tourist agency in Serbia look like. This is what the components of the contracts that have been concluded so far by our citizens look like. With these amendments and additions to the law, it will be disabled, as I read in the amendments to the law with the format 12, the usual format that can see and usually the human eye, will have to be printed the general conditions of business. However, I cannot look beyond the general conditions of the bank, insurance organisations and other organisations that have a monopoly position. I believe that such changes and additions of laws should be foreseen in these areas, especially as it comes to the jurisdiction of the same ministry, because when citizens sign contracts they don't know what they're signing, they can't see it, because it's so printed that it can't be read. Finally, these amendments and additions to the Tourism Act provide another provision concerning the Institute of Travel Guarantee, which refers to the insolvency of travel organisers and guarantees for the insolvency of travel organisers. Each tourist agency will have to have a guarantee for insolvency, so it will not happen that the travel agency goes bankrupt, that the owner of the travel agency disappears, and that the passengers stay at the airport or at home, as has happened so far. This guarantee will be valid throughout the tourist agency's existence and in some ways, in case of damage, the agency's burden will move on to the insurance organisation. Finally, once again, let me say that DS MPs will support these amendments and amendments to the law for these two basic reasons, because this is also part of the DS programme.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46090	The word is Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46091	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I am going to talk about the draft law amending the Law on Employment and Insurance in the event of unemployment, which provides that the seat of the National Employment Service will be in Kragujevac instead of in Belgrade. The proposed law has only two members, some of whom predict that the law will take effect on the eighth day since its publication in the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia. The MPs of the SRS have submitted a number of amendments to this bill, using the government's reasoning, which was when there was talk of this law in principle. We're very pleased that you've confirmed everything we've claimed since 2001 until today. Everything we've put on your load, you've confirmed. It means it's worth it and it's been bearing fruit that the MPs of the SRS have been saying all this time in the Assembly. What is interesting is that the Assembly Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has not accepted the bill, which suggests that no political consensus has been reached for such a thing in the ruling coalition. The project's authors – Serbia's regionalisation, stress that it is based on European standards, regional policies, and in order to achieve standards and develop undeveloped areas of the country. This would reduce existing differences both in the economic and demographic spheres. That this is not true is confirmed by examples of Poland and Bulgaria. Poland and Bulgaria are obviously evidence that money from the EU never means that there will be even regional development. Despite generous donations from EU funds, Poland has failed to reduce the lack of an undeveloped, poor eastern region. The latest study by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation has shown that in the wealth and poverty of the region in Poland the differences are not reduced, but are deepening on the contrary. What is interesting for all the regions that are impatiently rushing into the EU, is that, imagine, greater regional differences than Poland have such perfect Belgium. We believe this bill will not solve the problems of unemployment, as well as the screaming economic and social misery in Serbia. In Serbia, apart from Kragujevac, there are many places where it could be the headquarters of the National Employment Service. All of these places meet the conditions for including human resources, while addressing the problem of unemployment in these places and the environment. In February 2010, the state of Serbia officially registered 767,500 unemployed, up from only one month to January, the same year, by 2.1% and 16,000, respectively, unemployed persons registered at the agency. In doing so, a reliable number of those who do not work are not formally recorded in the National Employment Service records. However, the figure is far higher and certainly exceeds a million. On the other hand, the bigger the problem is that even those who work don't get paid for months and years or they don't get paid an internship and contributions. It is officially estimated that more than 700,000 Serbian citizens, about 10%, live below the lower poverty line. That's why half of Serbia is on strike today. The inability of an individual to cope with poverty and unemployment sooner or later will affect health, physically or mentally. WHO Director-General Margaret Chen stressed that poverty and unemployment lead to increased stress, directly related to the occurrence of mental disorders. A professor in psychology, Zarko Trebišanin, pointed out that in 2000, many enjoyed a better life, making them far more affected by existential problems because they had high expectations. Every fourth person in Serbia suffers from depression, there are more suicides, and we witness daily that violence is in extreme growth. What is extremely worrying is that every tenth child under the age of 14 lives below the poverty line, without being able to meet the basic needs of life. Social assistance in Serbia is receiving more than 70,000 families, and a growing population is growing more and more poor every day. Serbia's most underdeveloped area covers municipalities in the area of Toplico, Jablanic and Pcinj County, as well as the municipality of Rasko County, which accounts for a total of 23 municipalities and about 11% of Serbia's total area of about 10.7% of the population and employs about 7.5% of Serbia's employees. The population of these municipalities has high expectations and hopes to focus money on the locals. The Regional Development Act provides for the establishment of a national agency for regional development. In Zajecar, the Prime Minister and Minister for Economy and Regional Development opened the National Agency for Regional Development on 15 October this year. This is the first state institution to be moved into the interior of the state. Regional projects will gather in co-ordination with a regional agency that will forward to the national agency because they themselves cannot compete for the funds. Ognjen Miric, co-ordinator for EU funds in the cabinet of the government's Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic, estimates that the law has hurried and has led to expectations at a non-real place. It also believes that institutions in Belgrade, primarily those at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, will continue to be in charge of communication with Brussels and asset management, and in this context the regional institution will not have any function. That is why we believe that such a bill is unnecessary, because it will only complicate things on the ground and represent a pure political initiative of a party. As protagonists are territorial administrative, that is, as you try to present economic regionalisation, long known, we believe that the law is proposed for political points in certain groups and citizens, i.e. voters and their targets. It is clear that the bill is also another ideological-political delusion of Serbian citizens. Didn't this manner contribute to the creation of some other baits for voters and the public such as pre-election promises related to the value of a thousand-euro free action? It later turned out that the stock was not worth 50 euros, but the goal was achieved. All this raises doubts among Serbian citizens, as well as SRS lawmakers that state resources will be channelled into a new regional coalition. In early March, the Serbian government adopted a 100m-euro programme to achieve a flat regional development in 2010. This programme would not have been the case if G 17 plus leader and Minister of Economy and Regional Development had not insisted on it, with the programme becoming both a political programme and an excellent starting position ahead of a new political race. The question remains whether regionalisation is a rescue for Serbia or for G 17 plus. The SRS considers that there is no progress without the development of production, especially those intended for export, and investments in production, which can only lead to employment. For now, Serbia's largest activities are at the opening of folk cuisines. There are 20 people's cuisines in Belgrade, and in Serbia, there are 65 people's cuisines that feed more than 50,000 inhabitants. Development policy is being implemented through deep reforms, which is also witnessed by the European experience that regional differences in one country decrease when the gross social product per capita exceeds $8,000. In a state-level situation where there is no coherent development policy, resolving the unemployment problem in Serbia seems to be an unattainable goal.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46092	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46093	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Madam Minister, the first regret of the parliamentary group Forward Serbia's SNS on the draft law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act concerns the very process of passing this law. Tourism is a branch of an economy where big growth is expected, as well as an inflow of large financial resources, both through long-awaited investments and through the positioning of our destinations on the world and European tourist map. Of all the products and services provided by the Serbian economy, tourism, in my humble opinion, has the highest potential. So, Madam Minister, it remains unclear why you bring such an important law in an extremely non-transparent way? Why an emergency procedure? Why without a single hour of public debate? Why do you ignore the opinion and attitude of those most affected by this law? I remind you that some 100,000 people live from tourism in Serbia. With this bill, you change 67% of 132 members of the Tourism Act. You're changing, and it's better to say butchers almost half of the Tourism Act without asking the public for an opinion. What do you want to hide with this bill? What are you afraid of? No matter how many we turn our heads on the other side, this bill makes everyone unhappy, and the JUTA, and the Bane of Serbia Association, and the Association of specialized health institutions for the prevention of disability and rehabilitation, and the Group of Bane and climate places of Serbia within the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, everyone is unhappy. How long do you think you're going to put these grudges under the carpet? How can we trust you, Madam Minister, when the resolute minister is your leader, Mr Mladjan Dinkic, just over a year ago in this National Assembly, convinced us that the Law on Tourism is the best legal solution to regulate the area of tourism? One of the parameters that determines the quality of a law is also the length of application of that law. However, I think you too have been disturbed, so measure the quality of the law by the number of amendments and additions to the law, so now in Serbia they are in application of laws that look like sacks with lots of patches, and each of these patches is in fact an amendment and an addition to the law. Madam Minister, you are now making changes and additions to more than half of the Tourism Act. These changes are not small, cosmetical, but really essential, so I can ask you freely when did you and Mr. Mladjan Dinkic disavuise us, when you proposed a proposal for a tourism law or now when we are discussing a bill on amendments and additions to the Tourism Act? No matter what answer it will be, the Prosperity Group, Serbia's SNS, is seeking responsibility from both writers and proponents of both of these laws, because we assume that, regardless of the mistakes made, they are the same people. Three key problems are the solution of which opens the door to some perspective of Serbian tourism, which is the privatisation of hotels or tourism enterprises, the absence of a tourism ministry and a desperate infrastructure. In the strategy for tourism development, banish tourism is marked as a segment with the highest potential. Given previous experiences, I have reason to believe that you see this potential in Serbia's Banjski and climate places only through the expected financial resources in privatising the upcoming medical, catering and accommodation facilities in Serbia's spas. This potential has obviously not been seen in the privatisations so far, as you remember what kind of googogue employees in the HTP "Fontana" from Vrnjaka Banja are going through, but also employees in many other businesses in Serbia. Hotels buy and open people with capital, but they do business that has nothing to do with tourism. Instead of educated and experienced managers, they place their children and relatives on leadership positions, so it is no wonder we lack five key phrases in Serbian tourism, which are good day, welcome, here you are, thank you and come again. As long as that doesn't change, we'll only talk about the crisis of tourism in Serbia. This potential you listed in the tourism development strategy has not been seen through even investment in infrastructure. For example, from the funding of the National Investment Plan, I am sorry that today is not Mrs. Verica Kalanovic for 2010 for the municipalities of Čajetina, Raška and Brus, which gravitate the winter tourist centres of Kopalnik and Zlatibor, among other things, has been identified 170 million dinars for financing the project titled "Tourist Infrastructure for Active Vacation". That's great, that's great. But on the other hand, you shared Vranjacka Banja in the municipality, and you know very well that only charity is shared, 30 million dinars for funding, for building two school halls and 900,000 dinars for improving water supply in Vranjska villages. The queen of Serbian continental tourism is not full of 31,000,000 dinars, out of which 900,000 dinars to improve water supply to Vranjska villages, which has nothing to do with tourism, and you will admit that with 900,000 dinars, no mention of the tap can be made, let alone to improve water supply. If we add that by rebalancing the budget and reducing the transfer funds for 2010 you have taken away more than 90 million dinars from Vrnjačka Banja municipality, how do you think Vrnjačka Banja is European competitive? How about without good infrastructure and without quality privatisation? This way I hereby join and support the request of the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities of Serbia for the return of transfers to local self-government in 2011 at the level foreseen by the Law on the financing of local self-government, i.e. by the formula of 1.7% of the gross social product. Madam Minister, no medicine, no spa. It's an old rule, even if these medical services are at the level of determining the amount and method of water consumption, let alone at the top medical level that is grown and provided in Serbia's spas. In Serbia, 23 special rehabilitation hospitals provide their services, one part through the Republic Health Insurance Institute system, and the other, mostly, on the free market. With this bill, you have shown a clear intention to separate the institutions for the prevention of treatment and rehabilitation from other economic operators dealing with catering and to reduce them to the level of general hospitals, except in their name, in prefix, they would have the word "special" and that, just because you are holding them back and restricting them in the provision of catering activities, i.e. catering services. I remind you that the Ministry of Health, as the founder of these institutions, has given consent to the handling of tourism. Is that another disharm in the government of the Republic of Serbia? Do you communicate between the resistor and the ministries at all? What is the reason why, by this bill, special hospitals are included in business entities and other categories? The truth is, such a discriminatory solution was announced by state secretary, Mr. Goran Petkovic, in an interview, when he almost complained that special hospitals are taking a job in hotels. Well, let them take if they're quality. Is this Mr. Petkovic trying to set up a competition that should take place under some fair circumstances? As far as I know, I think it's punishable. This legal solution is neither in line with the Constitution nor with a fair competition that should take place every day in Serbia. The reason for this legal solution, I see only as your desire to further reduce the value of special hospitals prior to the upcoming privatisation. That's the only reason. Because if you were thinking that over three and a half thousand beds, which makes up about a little more than 50% of the accommodation capacity in these facilities is on the free market. If you had considered that jobs two and a half thousand employees in the non-medical part of the health care facility would be compromised, you would have accepted the suggestion and deleted Article 20. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act. Due to all the stress, due to the undefined target group of tourists we want to attract to our tourist destinations, as well as the tourism policy based on the personalafinities of the Secretary-General, you cannot expect support in the voting day, i.e. the Serbian Progressive Party's Prosperity Group, to vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46094	National MP Vladan Jeremic, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46095	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it was established and practically started in 1992 and practically started with the work of the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, probably many thought, without questioning the sincerity of the intention, that it was an institution that should in some way represent the business generator of Serbia. But in time, and especially in these last few years, I think the role and purpose of the Development Fund has been completely unthinked. Why are we more than sure of the correctness of this claim? Here are a few concrete arguments that, by the way, are said, and transparent as you like to say, or available to the public. First, the most money available to the Development Fund is on fixed and craft loans. For example, 12.2 billion dinars were given to various loans from the fund. Only permanent crafts have gone as far as 3.2 billion. The problem, however, is that the Fund for Development and those sitting on the Fund’s board of directors are obviously not interested in the way in which this money is being spent. That there is no control, they have admitted it themselves in the fund, and in the case of concrete abuses that the Anti-Corruption Council also has, when the Media Two Development Fund bought by the publishing company Education approved even three loans totalling 167 million dinars, but the control of these funds was lagging behind, so it is not even clear what that money was spent on. This and many other examples are certainly surprising, as contracts approving the loans of the fund also provide for the possibility of their termination unless the user fulfils the contractual obligations. It's obvious that there's a similar story here as in the privatisation process, or the possibility of ending the contract, but of course there's nothing. What may be very important is the question – how can the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia determine whether the user fulfils contractual obligations in a specific case when, as they say, one of these types of loans is not intended to control the dedicated spending of funds? Another thing is that one skillful media manipulation is realized, that is, where the public is knowingly led astray, so we have those paroles and great actions – let's buy our own home. At the same time, foreign companies are funded through the Development Fund, such as, say, this is well-known – the Croatian "Nexe Group", construction material production, then the Slovenian firm "Grah Automotive", car parts and Reum GMBH also works parts for vehicles. What's frantic is that the loans that are approved by the Development Fund not only have an incredibly low interest rate, but also what we've warned about, which is that they're not at all controlled by how that money is spent. There again came a self-confirmation to the Anti-Corruption Council, and even a representative of the National Regional Development Agency through the Public Service informed that as much as 10% of the company had misused credits, that 7% of the company had been shut down after they had received start-up loans, since they had obviously founded phantom companies just to collect money, while 3% of the company’s money received was issued under interest or used to fly. What's also a big problem is that this regular decision-making procedure in the Fund is such that the company can obviously get credit even though it's clear as a day that it will never return it. When the former fund manager pointed out this, when there were any demands that, if the law had been respected because of the company's overindebted debt and clients, they should be rejected, and then the Committee decided otherwise. It then somehow coincided with her leaving the director's post of the Republic of Serbia Development Fund. Then you have the case that again over these free democratic media are called tycoons to make money out of the country, while at the same time giving them millions of euros from the Development Fund. What has reached the public is the fact that Delta Agrar has received a loan from some, perhaps, about 5.5m euros. So the problem is what we as a public, as taxpayers even know about the efficiency of investment in our money, so the money of all taxpayers that is later placed through the Development Fund. For example, of course, there are bad ones. It is one that concerned June and the board of directors' session, which approved 66 loans to the municipality of Bor, about 122 million dinars. It is a coincidence that three days after such a decision by the Board of Directors in Bor, local elections were held. Then you have the approval of interest-free loans, so with 0% interest per 48 months, with a grace period of 12 months to one company d.o.o., which is actually a losing house that allows the purchase of tractors, cars, trucks, etc. You have, for the sake of the public, a few people are arrested, seven of them, on suspicion that they have made malfeasances with the Fund's loans for development, but Minister Dinkic announced that the Development Fund will continue to exist, but that control will take place every three months and that all entities receiving loans from the Fund will be strictly checked and how and how these loans are implemented. So despite numerous cases of abuse, the state will continue to approve loans through the Development Fund. Finally, we come to the key issue, however you call the law or the law, amendments and additions, the basic question is whether the development fund's money, this investment, would actually generate a rise in tax revenues, economic growth, an increase in employment, etc., or whether it is invested only in some failed projects, i.e. buying these political points. What we think in the SRS, thinks and the majority of citizens, which is precisely what this second one is about, therefore, buying political points and investing in failed projects.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46096	The People's Messenger Milorad Buha has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46097	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished citizens of Serbia, I will start with the Development Fund and the problems this state institution has. In the 1990s, when the Development Fund was established, it was established, and this is said by the provisions of the Fund's Act, that it would be one development institution in which the state would pour over all the resources available to it and that it would provide sufficient resources for the economy, agriculture and all other branches of economic life and thus meet the needs in the development sense. Unfortunately, the Development Fund has not revived, and it is particularly tragic to look through the balance sheets of the Development Fund in the last ten years. Namely, the Development Fund, as an institution from year to year, has less and less funding, both in dinar and foreign currency terms. The country that was obliged, under the Development Fund Act, to single out 1.5% of GDP, stood out very little, and in some years nothing at all. The Development Fund has become the commissioner of various ministries. Instead of seizing 1.5% of GDP, the state, in accordance with the provisions of the Development Fund Act, to single out what is provided for by the Privatisation Act, 50% of the privatisation incomes and inflows into the Fund and to help the economy through the fund division, to help agriculture and other branches, to move towards employment, we have opposite tendencies. We have an over-indebted economy that can't come up with funds in the Fund for Development with the benefits of interest and the benefits of conditions. We have a huge number of unemployed, year after year it increases. We have a tendency to reduce the number of employees precisely because the economy does not have a healthy quality rating from this fund, so it can be more competitive, to be far more stable than it is now. What is important to stress is that this legislative project moves the Development and Transition Fund to Nis. I will read here for the citizens of Serbia which is the basic reason why the seat is transferred to Nis. The main reason why amendments and additions to the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia are proposed is to change the seat of the Fund and move it to Nis. This is proposed for the reason of the deconcentration of state institutions and the approximation of the services of the Fund to persons in less developed areas. Did the economy's competent ministry make a real analysis of what we're going to get with this change? No, not only in this case, but also in other legal projects that we're considering today and we're probably going to consider here. We just don't do a proper analysis of what we get and what we lose. We're not getting anything, even on the contrary, for at least a year until the paperwork is relocated, until everything that is necessary for the work of the headquarters of a state institution is settled, and then we realize that, in fact, because of the problems in the functioning of this Fund and because I can't get some information, we're going to return it back to Belgrade, which is natural and normal. But if we learn from the comparative practice of other countries, let's see, it's inconceivable in any other developed state that we have the seat of such a significant institution, that we move it to another seat. Why? What's the real reason? Is the real reason for the undeveloped? We see an indicator of underdevelopment, I will read it here – since 2000 the level of underdevelopment in Serbia has increased by 1:5, now the ratio is 1:7. In cities, it's even more drastic, from 1:8 it's 1:15. In the case of income generated by individual cities, that is ratio 1:22. What do we get with this change? We're not getting anything. What did you have to do and not do? The Development Fund must be in the right position. Now, certain of your lobbying circles are in favour of the Development Bank. Vojvodina has already entered the process and the Development Bank is formed. At the meeting of the Committee on Industry, we also called on the Director of the Development Bank, who said certain experiences in the work of this bank, but the basic problem with banks conceived in this way is that the provisions on the banking system, the financial system, which in any case makes it difficult to function normally in financial terms because they have to provide funds for a mandatory reserve, for certain reservations and certain other funds that are dead, which are trapped. That's the basic problem. However, you now to go out with a particular political password, let's form a development bank, with this development bank we'll improve nothing. It can't be improved. There's no healthy means. There is no sound resources in the system from which they could provide conditions for normal work, functioning, whether the Development Fund or the Development Bank. Here's a few more financial indicators. Through the Ministry of Economy certain funds have been provided to subsidise loans, so in 2000 through the banking system, and the SRS has been saying for several years – don't pump state funds through banks, just get into banks and banks have profits, instead of having a Development Fund and having those funds returned. In 2009, about a billion euros were placed through banks, 95-96 billion dinars, about a billion euros, and around 11,000 loan seekers were satisfied. What's the problem? These were short-term loans, short-term liquidity loans of a billion euros, but 12 credit requirements totalling two million and 300 were granted for long-term loans. What do we see from this? We see that banks don't get paid to invest in the economy in the long term. Why? The insecurity of the Serbian economy. Then they apply the variation, more profitable for them and more unfavourable for our economy. Now you see only 12 loans on investment loans. Why are we in trouble now? Why is our economy not competitive? It's precisely because they can't come up with high-quality funds, cheap funds, long-term funds. Our economy has no future in perspective. It cannot be competitive with countries in the region without saying that it will be competitive with European countries and European economies and European legal entities that have a wealth of credit lines, banks, state funds, local funds, regional funds, investment funds, etc., and cheaply and in the longer term. There's no such thing here. These are your best indicators of not thinking about it. If the state wants to help the economy, then it has to transfer all available funds to the Development Fund. No Development Bank, you don't get carried away with it. There's no more propaganda to which you can go into the people, you recognize. Throw everything into the Development Fund. Make this state institution a real development institution that will have its essence, which will give cheap loans, which will lend long-term loans, which will address the real investment problem, long-term investment in fixed assets. The problem with the Serbian economy is that cheap quality funds and funds cannot be reached within the longer term. In addition, instead of today considering a particular strategy of economic development, and talking in this complex about the Development Fund, we only talk through one cosmetic change of seats. Serbia's economy, if you really want to be good hosts, in addition, needs various customs reliefs, eases in terms of the release of certain commitments that the economy has today. Almost daily we listen to the problems of small and medium-sized enterprises, including large businesses, that local self-government raises taxes and fees, 10, 12 to 15 times local taxes and fees have been raised. Why? Because you haven't transferred the transfer funds, you've denied it to local self-government, because local self-government has been left by itself and it's looking for exits, raising local taxes, fees, and that way we're burdening the economy like this. For the SRS, this law is extremely unacceptable, as is this set of laws we're talking about today. We can't talk about them. Do a proper analysis of the business of the economy, go with certain measures and activities to resuscitate the existing situation. Without it, there is no Serbian economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46098	Ambassador Lydia Dimitrijevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46099	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are having a joint debate on four points of the agenda. Amendments and additions to the Tourism Act are being made, and with real effort, it is not clear how the solutions in this law are linked and mutually conditioned with the amendments and additions of the remaining three laws. Basically, the three laws also include the move of seats outside Belgrade of individual bodies operating in the territory of the entire Republic. This is the only change in the Employment and Insurance Act for Unemployment, while in the Law on the Development Fund and in the Law on the Insurance and Financing of Exports of the Republic of Serbia, some other changes are being made. Let me just point out that these are all services of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. I'm going to say more about the law and amendments to the Act on the Agency for Insurance and Export Finance. The position of the SRS on all public agencies, as well as this, is well known, that these are para-state bodies designed to bring together the state apparatus multiple times, given that the economy has been destroyed, so this is a way to take care of many staff and to be satisfied with both the position and the salary and all others that accompany such institutions. I'll repeat this every time there's a law on any agency on the agenda. I'm gonna do it again because of all those people working in the local administration, they're out of a job. Otherwise, I come from the area Mrs Kalanovic mentioned Thursday at the highest unemployment rate when she presented the law. Both Major and Lebanese are in Jablani County, with rates 54 and 60.5%. All local self-governments are required to implement the Rationalisation Act or be reduced by already reduced transfers. I want to tell the citizens that about an hour ago new material was distributed to the members of the Finance Committee. I now hold in my hands a regulation on the internal arrangement and systematization of posts in the service of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures and gives consent to this Regulation to the Committee responsible for finance in the National Assembly. In this committee after that, don't doubt it, because since the board has the majority to give consent, it will work for 70 new people, no less. Of which 68 civil servants are in position and in executive posts and two subcontractors. This service will have 70 new workers. Every time some of the many agencies were established, the commission and similar representatives of the SRS proposed that the business entrusted to public agencies be organised within the framework of legitimate state bodies that recognise the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. However, the government has never agreed to this because this would involve one, possibly several executives and a certain number of employees, which experts, which the auxiliary staff would be all. This is how special bodies were created with a considerable number of employees, and we have talked about the salaries of the directors and the fees of the board members several times and agreed that at this time the economic crisis is inappropriately high. According to official data available on the website of 34 employees in five sectors, five departments, three directorates, a secretariat, a review committee, the Agency's insurance and export financing agency. Also, there is a board of directors who has a president, a deputy president and three other members, an executive board that counts two other members besides the president. The draft law amending and supplementing the agency's headquarters will move from Belgrade to Uzica, provides that the agency can have one or more branches and representations. As soon as something like this is predicted in the law, we can expect it to be implemented immediately. Many other important laws are passed and never applied, but such a provision can be expected to be implemented at the most recent time. I confirm that with the following facts. This assembly adopted two laws on rationalisation and on restricting employment in the state administration, and they belong to that group of laws that are selectively respected. We in the SRS have no doubt that this provision to form new representations and branches of the Agency for Insurance and Export Finance, alongside the future headquarters in Uzic, will be implemented in an express manner. As regards other amendments to the law, in addition to insurance, export operations and investment will be resecured abroad, as well as insurance for the collection of export claims on the domestic market, up to the maximum amount of export business value. It will also issue guarantees and other guarantees for short-term export operations, not just for medium- and long-term jobs. This kind of protectionism might be understandable when it comes to export-oriented entities, because we are all aware of the importance that exports have. However, it is unacceptable to accept obvious protectionism -- that only those entities whose work is of interest are individual political powers. It is precisely these patterns of political and economic power that are decisive in who will survive on the market and who will not. When the state gives someone unreally high subsidies from the budget, meaning, the money of all of us taxpayers, its product will be more competitive than those left behind in the market. An interesting model has been found in Serbia to implement this: subsidies to the employer by job. It is the most vulnerable part, as the economy in Serbia has been destroyed in the immediate privatisation process, in which many people have lost their jobs, most of them with miserable, humiliating severances. I'm just going to briefly comment on the event from a few days ago. The privatisation agency broke a contract with Bulgaria's Bulcvat on the sale of the Nevena timber factory, as the buyer did not maintain the continuity of production and respected the social programme. The contract ended the agony of 257 workers who had not been paid contributions and salaries for months. Representatives of the independent union voiced hope that the firm would not go to the age and workers on the street. This hope is based on the promise they received from the Privatisation Agency that the factory will be restructured. By the way, Bulcvat bought 15 Serbian firms, including 13 of them a broken purchase contract. This is just one of many stories of the same content. If someone said that employers should not be stimulated by excessively high subsidies to new jobs, it could indeed be misunderstood – that someone is against employment. On the contrary, employers should be encouraged to create new jobs, to hire people, but reasonable amounts. In no way should a person be given too high amounts per job, and it pays a worker the minimum wage, doesn't pay overtime, doesn't allow sick leave, reports with the lowest level of expertise, and thus pays the state minimum contributions and taxes on earnings. It is one of the specially designed models to pass the money on to certain businessmen, of course, according to the choice of those who have the power to decide in their own hands. As for the Agency for Insurance and Financing of Exports of the RS, it is important to point out that it is a basic criterion for the company to receive credit from the Agency for its export performance in the previous financial year of at least 300,000 euros and for it to have contracts with the ino partners. However, when it comes to companies with predominantly exporter status, which means that more than 70% of their realisations are being achieved on the foreign market or that in the previous calendar year they have achieved 10m euros in exports, such enterprises gain the opportunity to obtain tax incentives, in terms of faster VAT returns, within 15 days and more favourable lending conditions with the Agency. Otherwise, the conditions under which the Agency credits and co-finances with business banks are such that the interest rate and all costs are up to a maximum of 10% per year. According to data made public by the Agency itself, 199 short-term credits for export financing were granted in 2009, worth around 72m euros, a 10% higher loan in 2008. These loans were mostly granted to enterprises belonging to the top 300 Serbian exporters, as they are credit rating companies. The average value of the loan was about 350,000 euros, and most of it was approved by businesses in the area of the food and processing industry. The poor of the agency's increasingly represented business is the purchase of claims and in 2009 the Agency bought 75m euros in domestic exporters' claims on the domestic market. In the middle of the year, officials began to boast that Serbia had seen a significant decline in the external trade deficit. Compared comparisons were made with neighbouring countries and it was found that the decline in the Serbian deficit was 24.2% compared to last year, while neighbouring Bulgaria had a 30% growth, and Croatia was 14.4%. When you look at the figures, it is evident that Serbia exports twice as much as Croatia. It was also said that Serbia recorded the highest export growth in the environment for the first six months, and that growth was 53.7%. A comparison was made with countries in the environment. Bulgaria's export growth rate was 27.7%, Romania 16.6% and Croatia 14.4%. However, what depicts the real situation in Serbia is imports. In the first six months, Serbia scored twice as low as Croatia, with $4.64 billion, while more than nine billion were allocated in Croatia. When we make a comparison to the population, it's clear. The purchasing power of the Serbian population has dropped drastically. A week ago, the Republic Statistics Institute announced that the average salary in Serbia in September was 34,570 dinars, and there are many examples that workers work for tens of thousands a month, and it is not bad to repeat that the salaries of the directors of public agencies last year were 355,205 dinars, 344.149 dinars, 325,598 etc. I'm just going to say a little bit more about over-forcing the "Fiat" story. We are all witnessing how much money the Serbian government has invested in this factory that was privatised to its owner. We are now literally swamped by the story that the Fiata investment in Serbia will allow the country in 2013 to export about 2.5 billion euros. "Fiat" has so far invested 100m euros of the planned 940m euros, which means slightly more than a tenth. The question is, how much did the RS invest in the budget? It is also terrible that political powers push too many businesses and make it a story of how successful they are in running the country, while, apparently, all of us are experiencing the collapse of a huge number of citizens. I can't help but mention that the Serbian Chamber of Commerce has provided devastating information that Serbia is an importer of a large quantity of meat and, for the first eight months of this year, 26m dollars higher than Macedonia, BiH and Germany. The production of pork in Serbia in the last ten years has been reduced from 400,000 to less than 300,000 tonnes, beef from 110,000 to 80,000 tonnes, lamb from 35,000 to 25,000 tonnes, chicken from 85,000 to 75,000 tonnes annually. The need for import is not greater for one reason only: a decline in the living standard of the population that cannot afford the necessary amounts of meat. I'm going to make one positive example. Valuable and resourceful Serbian agricultural producers planted a cultured blueberry, joined a cooperative and this summer exported a whole line of blueberries: an early blueberry at a price of nine euros, and a later generation at a slightly lower price. Their product was heard in the world, but as far as Serbia's competent authorities are concerned and the state's help remains only to express hope that the authority will have more hearing for this kind of fruit production that could become one of the important definitions of Serbian agriculture. In recent days, we have had the opportunity to notice the sudden concern of individual representatives of government over excessive unemployment. It seems that they finally recognized the key problem in Serbia, or they would sooner be able to recognize the interest of saying it out loud, so they do not save their promises of employment, thinking it will win citizens as voters in the next election. Serbian citizens, as my distinguished colleague, Mrs Paunovic Milosavljevic, said recently, have not yet forgotten the promises made from the previous pre-election campaign, such as 1,000 euros free actions, 200,000 new jobs and many others.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46100	Your MP group has three minutes left. I give my word to Parliamentarian Marina Toman.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46101	We really have very little time left, so I'll just have some of the basics of what I wanted to say to you and my colleague Krasic. So the basic question raised here is whether moving the administration out of Belgrade and providing greater decentralisation will create preconditions for even regional development, according to the Proposer? The answer is very simple - it won't. The proposed changes and additions to the law are not enough to convince us that regionalisation does not treat Serbia as a mere administrative division, however, with the goal of creating political and national regions. If the goal is to create a modern, functional and developed state, and it should certainly be for all of us, reducing regional differences must be viewed primarily as an economic issue. As soon as that doesn't change, we'll have regions that have a purely administrative political character. In addition to our claims there are amendments to these laws which are one of the main ones, and for some, the only decision to move a clerk's apparatus. This migration should be some sort of symbol of the state's readiness to work to reduce these drastic differences between the regions. To conclude, this is why not equal regional development will not be solved by the migration of the administration, but by solving the economic and social problems that exist. That's one of the reasons the SRS won't support these laws. They will not be supported because we disagree on the approach to solving the problem of unequal regional development, we will not support it because these laws are things and are too simplified, simplified, Ministerial Matic, to absurdity. Finally, the main question arises – what will citizens get by amending this law? Citizens won't get anything, and in particular they won't get a better life.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46102	Since the time has elapsed on the lists, so there are no groups that have been reported, and there is still time to participate in the debate, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, do they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups who have not used their rights under Article 96? Yeah. Mr. Borislav Pelevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46103	Dear citizens of Serbia, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, representatives of the government, unfortunately, I must repeat that the government absolutely does not understand the importance of tourism as an economic branch. This is also evident by the government’s reference to this session as its representatives of the minister who, with all due respect, are not qualified and competent to speak neither of the Tourism Act nor of these three joint laws. At least today, I expected the Minister of Economy, who is responsible for the area of tourism, to come. However, he was not worthy to come. Not only has this government abolished the Ministry of Tourism, although everyone says tourism is one of our major business opportunities, but Mr Dinkic does not understand the need to defend his law before the Assembly, before the MPs, which he is responsible for -- the law on amendments and additions to the Tourism Act. The government's lack of interest in tourism is seen in all members of this law, especially in article 11 that discusses the priority tourism products of the Serbian state. That article 11 states: "City holidays, first of all, circular trips, business tourism, health tourism, mountain and lake tourism, nautical tourism, events and conventions and other events, rural tourism and special interests." Very, interestingly, some concepts that first meet, which is, say, the term "special interests". I would ask the Minister, if he is able, to explain to me what the term "special interests" means. But since the lady is not, with all due respect, competent for the field of tourism, I do not expect a quality answer. In these main products, the priority products are not listed by those tourist products which are indeed the most numerous on the visits of foreign tourists, and not only by that, but also by the revenue they make. It's sports tourism, only in the past two months we've had two world championships and countless in this year's Balkan championships, European championships, numerous international matches, etc. Then, cultural tourism, you completely forgot that there is Bemus, Bitef, Belef, that there is Fest, so why not mention the trumpet Parliament in Guca, the Exzit in Novi Sad, Bir-fest and many other events that really bring together hundreds of thousands of tourists, including many foreign tourists. You are introducing new categories, new tourism products such as nautical and hunting tourism. With respect to these two areas of tourism, they cannot be compared to those tourist areas that I have listed, sports, cultural, artistic and ecotourism. Only a few cities along the Danube and Sava have their ports, their boats, their anchors, yachts, etc. It's a very small number and a very small income. Not to mention hunting tourism that really has many donors in Serbia, but very little income, especially from foreign hunters. So everything that falls within the area of tourism that is very numerous and which are very profitable is not listed here and puts it in the margin. They are absolutely not even on the sidelines of the first law adopted last year, nor the proposal to amend and supplement this law. It is clear that there is no government interest in the development of tourism. We are the only country with no information database, no one in this country deals with tourism development research, no one publishes research results, and these results can be implemented in practice. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to use the remaining time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46104	That's exactly what you used. That's four and a half minutes. You've used everything but the four and a half minutes you've used now as an authorised representative, and you're not on the list and I can't give you a word on that basis. I'm asking again, does anyone who hasn't used their right to Article 96 want a word? Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I conclude a joint principled review on the draft law amending and supplementing the laws on tourism, the draft law amending the law on employment and insurance in the event of unemployment, the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on the Insurance and Financing of Exports of the Republic of Serbia and the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. Dear People's MPs, we'll take a break now. At 15.00 hours, we continue to work on the proposal for a law on the transport of dangerous cargo and the bill on confirming an air traffic agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt. Thank you for your cooperation so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46105	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our afternoon work on a joint principled and uniform search on the proposal for a law on the transport of dangerous cargo and a bill on the certification of the Air Traffic Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt. Notification of the invitations to the session. I would like to inform the Members of the People's Parliament that the President of the National Assembly, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, is in agreement with Article 90(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in connection with a joint principle and single search of the 15th and 30th agenda, in addition to the representatives of Proposer Milutin Mrkonjic, the Minister of Infrastructure, called on the sittings to attend both Rade Tomaševic and Dejan Lasica, the assistants of the Minister of Infrastructure. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint principle and uniform search on the proposal for a law on the transport of dangerous cargo and the draft law to confirm the air traffic agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt, and before the opening of a joint principle and uniform search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. And that: MEP Group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; SRS parliamentary group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; G 17 plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Pre-Serbia parliamentary group - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; DSS parliamentary group - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; SPS - 18 minutes; LDP parliamentary group - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; New Serbia's parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; an ambassador group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and a PUPS group - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group have the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a number of MPs, on the basis of Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I also inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them on these agenda points: MP Sinisa Stamenkovic, PUPS MP; MP Jasmina Milosevic, SPS - JS MP Zoran Shami, DSS-Vojislav Kostunica and MP Nikola Savic, the SRS parliamentary group. If any of the other parliamentary groups have a decision on an authorised representative, please provide us with a notice so that we can inform the MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle and uniform search on the proposal for a law on the transport of dangerous goods and a bill on the approval of the Air Traffic Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt. Does the representative of Proposer Milutin Mrkonjic, the minister of infrastructure, want a word? (Yes) The word has Milutin Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46106	The Honorable Chairman, or Madam Chairman, honourable Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, as always, and this time I am honored to be able to speak and propose two new legislative projects. The first is the law on the transport of dangerous cargo. It's a law that's brand-new. It replaces the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Matters brought by the 1990 SFRY and the 2002 Government Regulation on the Transport of Dangerous Matters in Road and Railway Traffic, which was meant to remove the outstanding issues raised because this law did not follow the dynamic changes in international regulations. The law on the transport of dangerous cargo is fully in line with international agreements and allows the application of the technical regulations contained in their annexes: the Agreement on the Transport of Dangerous Freight in Roadways, the International Agreement on the Transport of Dangerous Freight in Railway Traffic and the International Agreement on the Transport of Dangerous Freight on Internal Waterways. The law allows the implementation of security requirements and international regulations that are significantly higher than those in the current regulations, through the following newspaper: 1. Allowing every participant in the transport of a dangerous burden to appoint a safety transport adviser for dangerous cargo, whose task is to ensure the full application of international agreements in water, road and rail transport; 2. The central authority for the implementation of the laws on the transport of dangerous cargo has been established – the Agency for the Transport of Dangerous Load, with all the powers contained in international regulations in procedures where the competent public authorities approve certain transports, empowers bodies to assess conformity for testing, control, certification of packaging, pressure vessels and tanks, complete inspection control of the transport of dangerous goods by road, railway, water and air transport vehicles, except for explosives, where the authority of the MUP is competent; empowers legal persons to train safety advisers for vehicles transporting dangerous cargo, the list of certification of international cargo on domestic waterways; the provision of annual reports on the transport of dangerous cargo to traffickers by Serbia, the management of safety of vehicles for transport of dangerous goods by way of goods by way of law of the Member States; It lays down the obligations of participants in the transport of dangerous goods, in addition to those mentioned in the International Agreement for the Transport of Dangerous Freight in Road Transport, the International Agreement for the Transport of Dangerous Freight in Railway Traffic and the International Agreement for the Transport of Dangerous Freight in Water Traffic; 4. Construction of technical support for the application of the laws on the transport of dangerous burdens, which consist of qualified and equipped bodies to assess the compliance of the application of other standards that abound these three international agreements in the realisation of a particularly important legal institute, coded packaging, pressure vessels and tanks. The main objective of this law is to act preventively on all participants in the transport chain and reduce the number of incidents that occur in the transport of dangerous goods. I expect that the remarks of the MPs will be very correct, constructive and will be incorporated into this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46107	Do the officials of the committees want a word? Does the rapporteur of the Transport and Communications Committee, MP Velimir Ilic, want a word? (No) The Legislative Committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic? (No) President of the Committee on European Integration, MP Lasslo Varga? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want to start from least to the largest parliamentary group or by the will of the president or the authorised representatives who report for the word? National MP Nikola Savic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46108	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are considering the proposal for a law on the transport of dangerous goods and, together with this law in the context of a united debate and another air traffic agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Egypt. Of course, I'm going to say more about this law, because I think the point is that it's an extremely important law, that there's something more to be said about it. After several traffic and transport laws, we are also considering this law and that, as Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic said, as a whole new law. I have to say, it's a good thing that the government has decided to propose a whole new law, because this substance contained in this law has so far been discussed through several different agreements, then through different regulations and through several other laws, so in one place the ambition of the promoter is to unite it in one place. I can also say one more thing, which is that the government, or the proponent in this law, adopted some remarks that the Serbian Radical Party had under previous laws, concerning terminology. In fact, in the previous law that we have recently discussed, it is the Air Traffic Act. We wrote an amendment to replace the word "car carrier" with the word "car carrier". You didn't do it then, now you've done it here and I think it's good. However, I must say, these two things are the only things that are good in this law, because this is really one of the worst laws in the field of traffic and transport, and we've had opportunities in this Parliament recently to consider more of these laws. In fact, this law does not deal with the essence of the transport of dangerous cargo, but rather with administrative issues, and then one can get the impression that the essence of this law is to form a transport administration of dangerous cargo. This authority for the transport of dangerous cargo, in its essence, is a monopoly body whose aim is not to properly operate the transport of this dangerous burden, but to establish a monopoly over this area, to discipline participants in the transport of dangerous cargo, and based on some things that can be observed in the law can be freely said and to conclude that such recruits, participants in the transport of dangerous cargo. If we didn't happen to know the title of this law that we're talking about today, and we're considering its essence, we could come to one conclusion in the first place that this is about a law that's primarily about an area of education, it means something about part-round education, and in the worst case scenario, something about some institutes, and whose basic matter is education. In fact, I'm going to say something again about this department of transporting dangerous cargo because it's the biggest complaint regarding the SRS. The new administration is the central theme of this law, and besides, there is no detailed debate on how this administration works, who makes administration, which is the qualification structure of that administration, how many administrations will have employees and so on. Finally, there are certain things in the transitional and final provisions. I'll go back to it, but there's nowhere to be said essentially about this administration, so it can really be concluded that it's a paraorgan that has its monopolistic position, huge powers, and almost no responsibility. The management mentions some kind of advisor, and then some authorized body to assess the conformity of the vehicle for transporting dangerous cargo, and then a large number of inspectors, and that is all a vicious circle, where mutual relations, obligations and a detour of the business of these elements is not sufficiently defined so that I think that this administration will have a major problem in its functioning. I'm going to have to say once again that the task of this administration is so much too pronounced and so much is put into the essence of this law, it's as if half of the world's global dangerous burden is being transported to Serbia's roads. The administration is a bulky organ and the personnel working there will not be able to do it properly. As for the authorised body mentioned in the administration, the body that assesses the conformity of the vehicle type, gives the conditions, recommendations that the vehicle can participate in the transport of a dangerous load, is nowhere decidently and clearly not stated under which conditions this authorised body gives authority, whether a vehicle can or may not carry out the transport mentioned, and then it turns out that this thing is a matter of individuals, i.e. their subjective evaluations or assessments, means their discretionary right, and this can always involve certain abuses. All the laws or most of the laws passed by this government are hardly applicable anyway. Some are totally inapplicable, and that is why it happens very often in this House we do their work, additions, changes, etc., but I think this law will be one of the most difficult laws in the field of traffic and transport. When it comes to the financial resources or the assessment of the financial resources necessary for the implementation of this law, it is said that it is not necessary to allocate additional resources from the Republic of Serbia's budget to fill jobs but only a certain amount, i.e. material costs, for the start of the work of this administration. It is further said that filling new jobs will be done with redistribution of other state authorities and through an internal competition. I can also trust that you will do so, that you will put too many from some other state bodies in this administration. But there's one thing that's forgotten here, is that it's a tightly specialized business where everyone can't do this job and no matter how many are going to be overnumbered in one, the other, third, or not already know which state authority, I doubt that a small number of them will meet these conditions, and then we're going to get into a situation where we're hiring people again at a small door. There's a state administration spreading and here it's very nice to say in the law there won't be any new employment. For this reason, the SRS intervened with a large number of amendments and the idea was for the submission and writing of these amendments to improve this law as much as possible or to prevent the monopolies I was talking about and to bring these things to some normal extent. I am glad that there is a minister, Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, and somehow it always happens that when we talk about a law in front of the SRS parliamentary group, that he is on the other hand, or a representative of the government, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic. Of course, I don't want to criticize him as a minister. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, you know the SRS has a certain respect for you. We have nothing negative for you as a man and a minister to say. Sometimes we avoid criticizing something, or overly critical of something that you're in charge of in front of the government. Many times we've been able to praise something you've done well, but really this time I have to say there's nothing to boast about in this law. I'm going to start to support what I'm talking about and the facts through some concrete things for this law. In the shortest lines I will give and indicate the most important remarks. When there's a debate in particular, I hope to see you again here, and we'll decompose it even more and we'll absorb it. A member of the law which speaks of the responsibilities of the Board of Transport of Dangerous Load, and of the competences relating to the education of the examination committees, for the verification of professional competences and committees for drawing up examinations, I have a lot of objections here. There are nowhere to say about these things – who, how and what people should do and who should put together questions, which people should be on the committee to carry out professional questions. I don't think there's any respect for the waist. I can trust you with my word of honor that you will hire people from the profession, but in law it does not stand anywhere. I can tell from this, that maybe even the drivers, the drivers, the ones carrying the dangerous burden, that one of them, based on their field experience, will be putting together or proposing some questions that have been examined. I believe that among the members of the commission, and this should also be in the law, people of the profession, people of the relevant colleges, whose activity is exactly what this administration is treating. First of all, I think of people, i.e. professors of the Faculty of Chemistry, Faculty of Technology, Faculty of Engineering, Faculty of Labour Protection, which is in Nis, Traffic College, etc. There is also a large number of illogicalities in the law. In one place, it is said – a transport participant should submit an annual report to the adviser. In fact, a security advisor in the transport of dangerous cargo is an obligation prescribed by law. The law prescribes the obligation of an adviser and that all participants in the transport have one or more, depending on the workaround, or the scope of their work, advisers. Now, a participant in the transport of a dangerous burden, he doesn't want a counselor, on the contrary, he doesn't need a personal advisor. His advisor represents only one ballast, based on which he will have to pay a certain amount and raise his costs, but it is prescribed by the law and completed. He has to accept it. There's nothing disputed about that. But the law says the advisor's report should be delivered by a participant in the transport of a dangerous burden. Personally, I think the report should be delivered and delivered by whoever wrote it. Of course, it was written by a counselor and he should deliver it, not by one who is involved in the transport of dangerous cargo. The law mentions the concepts in many places – teaching, curricula, curricula. Here I want to suggest one thing, when these expressions are used, we need to be careful, because companies, legal persons dealing with the transport of dangerous burdens are not educational institutions, and curricula, curricula and educational content are the expressions most and almost exclusively related to educational institutions or some institutes whose task is education. There's got to be some difference, and it's always going to be fenced from not being a school, like I said in one part of my discussion, if we didn't know the title of this law, maybe we could conclude that this is some kind of educational institution, not some law that treats the transport of a dangerous burden. One of the members of the law also discusses the measures to be taken in the event of the disappearance of a dangerous burden. That's where these terms are prescribed, and it's okay. Still, it's a very serious business, a very serious matter. And then, within the time that belongs to the parliamentary group, I'm going to talk about this. I'll tell you about it in more detail. There's one thing that's supposed to be introduced into the law for me here. It says that if, for any reason, a dangerous burden disappears, one who carried the load and other participants in the job, they must do their utmost to find that burden. However, we must be aware of the fact that some time the burden can disappear in such a way that it evaporates. Then we cannot, despite our best wishes and every measure taken, find a burden that has gone into the atmosphere. In order for the law to be better defined and more practical, we intervened with the amendment in this sense, which is why I suggested it here. The law further says in one place that an employee who is highly trained is obliged to restore his knowledge. This is, in my opinion, an entirely vague formulation. If it is said - he is obliged to restore his knowledge, he is practically left at will whether or not he will do, as a child, whether or not he will do his homework. I think the law should clearly stand – it is required to monitor modern flows within this and for a certain period of time, whether it is a year or two, three, five, it was once five years, and I see that here it is proposed to be less and I agree. It needs to be defined precisely when, under what conditions and how long it takes to restore that knowledge. Also, I noticed a lack of police officers controlling road transport. They are given too much authority in some parts when it comes to the transport of dangerous cargo. Malten, the law comes from the fact that they're experts in transporting dangerous cargo, and of course they're not. I mentioned that a dangerous burden is indeed one dangerous thing. I'll give you some information later on where you'll see it's a really serious matter. Police officers are given too much importance, so that thing needs to be better defined. I'm done, because time's running out. If we look at Annex of this law, that supplement where it is seen, or that declaration of compliance with EU rules, we will see that almost nothing is harmonised. Everything we do, we do to get into Europe as soon as possible, and nothing here is consistent. The deadlines for bringing in sublegal acts, as it stands here in law, are about three months from now, in about six months. The deadline foreseen for signing compliance with the EU is 2012. Knowing how this government works, Godspeed, but I doubt it will honor this deadline. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46109	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46110	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, when I saw that this law on the transport of dangerous goods was on the agenda, I thought, here's a law that will have nothing to talk about. You'd think it was a law that had to, by the logic of things, be based on universal international standards, on a number of contracts that our country had signed in the past, no matter what it was called. It's a serious story that defines some extreme technical matter that no particular relationship with the political views of any party can have. So, then this law arrived, and I looked at it, and I must tell you, Mr. Minister, for your term of office, you did not propose such a bad law. Of course, I'm not accusing you. You didn't write the law. So instead of one final technical law, which shouldn't have had more than 25-30 members, you've made one completely bureaucratic and pointless law, and wherever there's a chance to spoil something, you've ruined it. It's all clear in Article 2. There are six international conventions that we, of course, have to respect because, in the end, it doesn't matter if it's about transporting dangerous chemicals, explosives, radioactive elements and so on, it doesn't depend on the country to the ground, but there are some rules of the game that all the civilized world has to respect and, of course, we have to respect, it doesn't depend at all on our political commitment. Instead, you wrote one law where some things are repeated 116 times. I say, there are 103 members, and at the top of his head he needed 25. Whoever wrote that law to you, please thank him and don't do those jobs anymore, because he doesn't know it. He's got serious objections. I already said, wherever something could have been ruined, it was ruined. First of all, you're reintroducing a regulation body called the branch office. There is no law that has entered this congregation that does not have at least one or five regulatory bodies that are being introduced. We've been talking about reducing the administration the whole time. How do you plan to reduce the administration if we're building a new body in every area? Don't be angry, but this is a job for a few people at the Department of Traffic, who aren't any body, because when you form that body, that body has its director, so the director has a driver, so he has his secretary, he has his associates, he has his employees working on it, and that's one 30 employees. Instead, two, three, five, I don't know how many employees in the competent ministry, in this case the Ministry of Traffic, is more than enough. What do you need management for these kind of jobs? It's completely incomprehensible to me. You oblige all carriers involved in the transport of dangerous substances to have advisors. All right, all right, I get it. Counselor, someone who will be responsible for organising the transport of dangerous cargo. You wrote five articles about a counselor, but you didn't write the most important thing about that counselor, and that's what school supplies are supposed to be? You know what it's gonna end up on? It will end with counselors becoming people who have nothing else to do at the firm. So there's not one word, and it's clear that it has to be highly educated people, because transporting dangerous chemicals, transporting explosives, transporting radioactive elements, they can't do that to illiterate people. You'll be in charge of a lyin' driver who can't sit behind the wheel because of his poor eyesight. It'll be in your companies. There's not one word, there's not one condition. He's supposed to get some certificate, etc., but he doesn't write what kind of school equipment he needs to have, what he has to be, and in that case, he doesn't write it in law, but apparently he's got a prison hanging over his head. Whatever bad happens, he'll be responsible. I can't understand the logic of the writer of this law, which, I say, unnecessarily wrote 103 members. So 103 members are written, and some such elemental things are not defined. In doing so, some members repeat themselves, whether in their views or through, to say the following members, unnecessarily complicating a text that could be extremely simple and elemental. Right away, the DSS had one dilemma. We could have written one 90 amendments or not written one. I've decided not to write any. This is a completely irreparable law, totally irreparable, without any need, because it's only bad because those who wrote it didn't know their job.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46111	Six minutes have been used by an authorised representative. The People's Messenger Velimir Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46112	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am pleased that this law has come to Parliament, that we start a topic that is extremely serious and that needs to be debated very seriously. I am sorry to note that there is no interest among MPs, and there is no particular interest in doing this in the government and that an extremely large problem of Serbia is finally resolved. This problem has been existing for years, but this is a problem that needs to be solved at the state level, especially at the level of Belgrade and large cities. No one was seriously discussing this problem. In time, we have launched a project documentation to avoid the transport of dangerous material, to get out of the city of Belgrade. When the most dangerous materials pass through a two-million-dollar city, the maltenes through the city center, where the biggest frequency and traffic and citizens are daily, we can now make any agencies, inspectors' services, audits, we can pass exams, we can do whatever we want, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic knows about it, when there's no money to solve this problem. In time, I gave the order to do a project for rail and road traffic and air traffic, to completely avoid the capital, the city of Belgrade, and to extract dangerous materials from the city of Belgrade. That project has begun to work. However, the NIP stopped the project and the city of Belgrade, because we agreed to pay together for project documentation, to create a project and to deal with this problem permanently. The project has been launched, an idea project has been done, but I'm sorry it's not working. We now think about covering up a clean government or some responsible people and we're going to have some team of people we're going to transfer this problem to. However, this problem will not solve anything if the inspector punishes a driver or a company, etc., when people remain one question – where will he transport dangerous materials by rail when he comes to Belgrade and when Panchevo must pass by Calemegdan, and must pass over the Pančeva Bridge and must pass through Dorcool to come to Panchevo? There were several cases, unfortunately, there were no major consequences, when such dangerous materials were driven, there was some haiarium, and they stayed in the city center. Hundreds of thousands of people would have the consequences of such a dangerous transport. The NIP has not approved the funds and has been silent for years. I know Mr. Mrkonjic doesn't have the funds for these projects, it's in the NIP and it's been agreed to be done since the sale of "Mobtel" and it's been the conclusion multiple times in the government, but nothing has worked out. Dangerous material must not enter a two-million-dollar city. We tanks with the most dangerous material that causes such consequences in the event of hawararium are driven through the heart of Belgrade. The deal was with the city in good time to do it together, to get traffic out and across Vinca, across the Vinčeva Bridge, where freight traffic would also be transferred, complete transport, means both road and rail traffic, so that it would simply avoid any entry into large cities. But it's all hitchhiked up and here's a few years from now nothing's been done. It is that the project costs, but it is part of a tour around Belgrade, this second leg that goes, and that was why the Vinca Bridge in Vienna was extremely important and important. I've given it my time, and an idea solution has been made to complete this. We administrations, penalties, inspectors won't solve anything if New Now passes through the heart of dangerous material, if all cities where the train stations are located in cities pass dangerous materials, you can punish as much as you want, but the consequences can't be avoided if any problems arise. Therefore, I am in favour of paying a serious attention to this issue and Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic to start this issue on the government, to make the funds that were once intended to be allocated in the next budget and to start working very seriously on this project. We know that the chemical industry for Belgrade, for this whole neighborhood and in the First Spark Baric, is based in Panchev. All these minor dangerous materials that are extremely dangerous and come in and out of Panchev and are transported through Belgrade and continue on the path of Serbia or come from abroad, from imports, and come to a railway station, even more so in Belgrade, where car separation continues to be transported to Panchev, which is causing extremely big problems. These laws can be considered a little bit more, but this city, especially the capital, cannot allow these things to happen. You know that the city of Belgrade, which is on the Sava and Danube River, where some of the dangerous materials are being transported and these rivers, has been transported, is now getting smaller, but it will be transported more and more if this strategy is brought to life to function Sava and that the Danube is working at full capacity, as predicted in the EU. We have to solve the question and the port and everything, and then the question at the airport. That is why the construction of the Cargo Centre was required to provide special boxing and specially isolated landing centres for these aircraft with dangerous materials. Now that's not the case, and now you don't even transport dangerous materials by plane because we don't have the conditions for such a thing. This rail transport thing must be avoided as soon and as soon as possible by the railways, because the Sava River has been shackled and instead of Belgrade on the rivers, we have completely closed Belgrade, Calemegdan, the more promising part of the Sava River, which has great opportunities for development and tourism and many activities, has been completely shut down and nailed by a railway that has paved the Sava River through the city of Belgrade. Even when it is said that dangerous materials are mostly passed, it must be avoided. Therefore, work must be done, and in order to do so, the city of Belgrade must start and accept Prokop's resolution along with the government of the Republic of Serbia. We haven't been able to solve the problem for years because of the blockade of Belgrade city authorities who weren't willing to solve the problem, but at that time the government of the Republic of Serbia, where Belgrade's city government was the opposition, made problems, did not give some consent, asked for large amounts of money to be paid for the infrastructure in Prokop, and so we refused investors. We got investors here, we made an international tender for the closure of Prokop, but the city of Belgrade has asked so much that the complete investment has been defused and no one has had an account to work on, because the city of Belgrade instead of helping to solve Belgrade's problem, to dislocate the current railway station and to move it to Prokop, it has demanded that it be well earned, not simply the city of Belgrade gets almost 90 hectares of the best locations in the current location of the railway station. So now dangerous materials are entering the Belgrade railway station, into Belgrade's heart, which should never happen. This is an extremely important issue, but I note that in the budget, here I am looking at the budget proposal for next year, I have talked to many responsible people who are working on it, not predicting the means that these problems are resolved for both Belgrade and Novi Sad, nor for central Serbia, nor for Shumadi, nor for eastern Serbia, anywhere. Many of these materials went to Prah's own time and the problem was not solved. We know that part of the railroad that is extremely important for this transport simply went from the Belgrade-Bar track to Nis, so now the Kraljeno-Kruševac railway is not working. I see she's not in the reconstruction program for next year. Belgrade-Vršac is mentioned with huge investments, but there is no mention of a large artery, a blood stream through central Serbia and a joint of Corridor 10 and the Belgrade-Bar railways. I can't understand that it's possible, here, during my term we've been doing Požega-Kraljevo, but I can't understand that for three years, the work to continue from the Kings to Kruševec and to join up with Corridor 10 towards Nis. I can't understand that Belgrade-Bar, Luka Bar, and it's separated from Corridor 10, which was extremely frequent, and you yourself said, Mr. Minister, that this is the main vessel of central Serbia, eastern Serbia, means the merger of these two corridors and road corridors that will go to Belgrade-South Adriatic and Corridor 10 need to connect with this location of Pojate-Preljina, right, and connect it into one continent. It means the train was completely stopped on the King-Cruise-Nish track. It's extremely important for the development of the entire region, but here, I see in the coming years it's not in the program. So Belgrade-Bar will be forced, something will go to Belgrade-Vršac, a major investment, but the rest is not in the project, and this railway corridor also transported dangerous material for the chemical industry in Krusevec, for chemical industries "Milan Blagojevic" Luciani, for the chemical industry, of course, "First May", for "Lateks" and other factories avoided road traffic which due to the lack of passing many cities have no bypasses. Now imagine a tanker when it comes across with waste materials that are explosive and pass through the heart of kings, because there are no bypasses and, for example, a tanker passes through the city center that is so dangerous and has not given the god of any hararium because there can be consequences very great. However, if it had gone by rail, it would have been much better and much safer. Therefore, I ask you not to cover everything with this law and to say - we have solved dangerous materials, we have solved dangerous waste, and in fact we haven't solved anything still will the wagons pass Calemegdan, still the railway station will remain where it is and now we will continue to have these problems that we still have today and traffic which is not allowed to pass through large cities such as Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac, Kraljevno, Čačak etc. So you have to avoid this. So I ask you to continue your project in the next budget and start the project from the drum stream to Pancheva, both rail and road. It's all worked out. I think the first funds were given and paid, and that was done and stopped. This must continue because it will only take one tour of the broad port, via Ostružnica, via Orlovaca, the Bubanj stream, to visit the city of Belgrade with dangerous materials in road traffic, and also through Rakovica we will tour and in railway traffic through this corridor that will be completely secure, safe and we will tour downtown Belgrade. We will visit what is now being done, open the Calemegdan, open the ports to Calemegdan and provide a chance for the great Belgrade development of tourism for foreigners who are coming and going to Belgrade, because they have no place to agree because the track has immediately girded everything, closed, cannot approach a taxi or any kind of passenger traffic because it is closed and so far. The Panchea Bridge is extremely risky because it has a lot of traffic. Imagine the tanker when it was once, the assistants remember for sure, when it was a harbinger on the Pančeva Bridge of a tanker, and the traffic was blocked for hours and there was no technique to throw out the tanker, that it was dislocated because it simply entered the bridge and was located in a column that was immeasurable and then we had a series of problems that followed these transports. So, you see Mrs. Kalanovic, let her get rid of the bag. It cannot avoid such important projects and can't be ignored by the projects that life means, because if a tanker were to cause a carnage in downtown Belgrade, the consequences would surely be hundreds of thousands of people who would get sick. It solves the problem and the city of Pancheva and a whole series of pollution, so environmental problems solve this part of the corridor that is planned and designed. So please define yourself, convince the prime minister, the finance minister that these funds must be allocated, because Belgrade, with over two million residents, cannot tolerate it anymore. Mr. Minister, the Probation must be launched. We were on the verge of doing the work, only that the city of Belgrade signed it, but the city of Belgrade won't, he wants to take a tariff on the infrastructure that was already made there 20 years ago and wants to charge it again. No investor who was coming would accept that. They now want to charge for the square and the rain drain, and the trafo cells to be done, which should have been done 20 years ago. Of course, the late Branko Pesic did it in time and there is no point in paying something that has been done now. Here, Trigranite when he got the job, that's why the contract was broken because people asked – how do we pay for something that already exists here? Then they said from the city of Belgrade -- you know, the tariff is that per square, and it all comes in and has to be paid again, and nobody wanted to accept it. As far as traffic is concerned, large underground garages are provided to monitor and facilitate the number of cars parked in the area. It's an extremely high-quality project that needs to be done. It also connects to Corridor 10, with a highway that is directly there and solves many of the problems that are important to Serbia and important to Belgrade. That's it. Thank you. I hope that you will do everything, and we will help in parliament to make these projects live and continue to work and to free the city of Belgrade from the railways around Calemegdan, and to free Sava and Belgrade finally come out on the Sava because it would mean a lot to this old part of Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46113	Eighteen minutes and 30 seconds have been used by the president of the parliamentary group. Do any of the other authorised representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) You, Minister, can get your word whenever you ask for it, according to the Rules of Procedure. If you want, go ahead and sign in. The Rules of Procedure prescribes behavior for all of us. A representative of the government gets a word whenever he wants. If none of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, come forward, I would like to inform you that they are in accordance with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled and uniform search, applied for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: Forward Serbia, the SRS and the SES. I give the word to the first speaker in the list and the order of the MPs, and according to the statements for the word, MP Mico Rogovic, and after that, MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46114	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, Mr. Minister, I would not like to repeat myself, but indeed, if we go into this problem and the area governed by the Bill on Transport of Dangerous Load, it is evident that the law, unfortunately, is so badly done that if it is adopted in the future, and it is evident that it will be adopted, it will create major problems in the work of carriers dealing with the transport of dangerous cargo, many of them, unfortunately, will make it impossible to work, even though all these jobs have been successfully carried out and all of this will clearly affect the accumulation of transport and the fall of economic activities. The bill, unfortunately, contains such shortcomings that it is almost impossible to fix it with amendments, so on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group, I draw attention to both you and the public to withdraw this bill from the procedure. To avoid repetition, you can enter the Constitutional Court of Serbia's website and see sessions held on 28 and 21 October, 42 and 43 sessions, that two important laws, the Act on the Work of the Agency in the fight against corruption and the Law on Electronic Communications, have experienced unconstitutional adoption in the assembly procedure and are likely to be declared unconstitutional. Because of a similar law that is now on the agenda, I also draw attention to the withdrawal of this law and to the amendment, so that this matter would indeed be contained in 103 members of the bill, with unfortunately 150 criminal provisions which are a quarter of the text of the proposed law, being withdrawn from the procedure. Let's take it in a row. The proposal for a law on the transport of dangerous goods in Article 2(2) provides for the direct application of international conventions and EU Directives. Everyone knows that they cannot be applied directly. Most of the international contracts and EU Directives referred to in Article 2(2) are neither confirmed by the National Assembly nor published in official messengers, nor translated into Serbian, etc. All that says is that it's contrary to the Constitution. It is also not possible to learn from the draft law what acts are and what acts are concerned, nor are their precise markings, or where and when they are published and what version they are of, because part of these views and provisions, or conventions and directives of the EU, have survived very important changes in the basic provisions in relation to the draft law, so that, essentially, on the day of adoption in the National Assembly, they cannot be brought into line with them. I can't help but point out that the many provisions of this bill are so incomprehensible, which really raises questions whether experts, apart from lawyers who are seen and recognised in the area of dangerous cargo transport, were involved in the drafting of this bill? Once again, I note that part of the provision, most of the provisions really do not comply with the Constitution and the rules of international law. Therefore, it is likely that the procedure before the Constitutional Court will lead to the annulment of the provisions of this law. What Mr. Shami said, I still have to rely on the authority of a newly formed transporting dangerous material. They are so prescribed that they will inevitably lead to a conflict of jurisdiction with other state authorities, which will clearly have an adverse impact on the operation of dangerous cargo carriers and the investor's interest in investing in traffic. The establishment of the administration alone really doesn't make any sense, unless it is intended to achieve what has been achieved by so far many state authorities and agencies, which is the employment of a new number of employees. For the same servants, pay, work space, etc. should be provided. Mr. Minister, are you going to introduce contributions to pensions, because I don't know where, from which sector and businesses will you settle the new costs that are necessary and necessary for the work of individual administrations, agencies and all others that will be created? We also claim that the number of executives of the newly formed service is so high and that it will likely be higher than the number of people who are now engaged in this matter in your ministry. Article 13 states that the participant in the transport is obliged to compensate for the full amount of damage suffered. This provision is contrary to the general rules of liability for damages, since it does not cover the question of liability for damage caused. The law itself makes it impossible to determine which carriers and other participants should be subject to this law. We're going to start with a banal situation -- let's say, does this apply to farmers? In practice, you know it's necessary to translate pigs to sell at the market. Does a farmer need to provide a certificate and should he register transport for the transport of dangerous material, because live animals belong to that category? This also applies to the transport of goods for discount stores, as part of the goods for domestic use also belongs to the transport of dangerous material. These categories are not covered, nor can it be seen from the draft law whether they apply to these categories as well as to those categories that I mentioned. So, it is evident that the law in this respect is not at all defined and cannot be prescribed directly by the application of many international conventions, as you have stated in the Bill's proposal. The next issue of this law is the introduction of new inspectors for the transport of dangerous cargo. The problem has opened up the inspector's jurisdiction in certain areas of traffic which now control the transport of dangerous cargo. Whether they will deal with this matter or not, this remains problematic after the adoption of this bill. Does this mean that the inspectors who were previously authorized to deal with this problem will now control only vehicles that do not carry a dangerous burden? The same question is also for inspectors who control loading, unloading, overloading, production and handling of dangerous substances. Further ambiguities in the draft law introduce the authority of a police officer referred to in Article 46, in which he is the same competent to control whether the vehicle on the road meets the requirements of Article 6, and when you look at Article 6 of this Bill, it is evident that it refers only to international regulations. Does this mean that police officers will carry with them international regulations, and let's say that one of them contains over a hundred pages, and they slowly go to their vehicle, see which item is that they are not dressed, they do not know international regulations, they do not need to know the international regulations of this matter. Just look at what it says in article 6 and what a police officer is obliged to call in the control of a vehicle carrying a dangerous burden. I must once again point out that the bill contains 150 criminal provisions and that is the greatest success of the bill, although they are indeed contained in 12 of the 103 members of the bill. But a quarter of the text submitted by the bill is just criminal provisions. Indeed, it does show little and no authority for the motion to deliver a serious bill to the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For example, Article 83 provides for the obligation to impose a ban on the performance of six months of participants in transport which, by violating any provision of international conventions, poses danger. What would that look like in practice, Mr. Minister? For example, in the Pancheva Refinery, which has the status of loaders of dangerous substances under this law, because it loads highly flammable and toxic fluids, God forbid any irregularities that will lead to a more serious incident, does this mean that the Pancheva Refinery will stop doing all the work? The bill clearly associates with the situation that there will be a six-month ban on working. Does this apply only to certain activities or to complete action? This also applies to railways on which an incident may also occur when transporting dangerous material. Will the railways be forbidden to transport passengers? What can happen if these criminal provisions of this law are interpreted like this? Does it mean that at that moment we will have the inability to produce fuel in the Panchevo Refinery? It is fortunate that other countries in the environment do not have such legal provisions and such bad laws, so we will be able to get fuel from them and supply both the economy and all that is needed for fuel. It is obvious that all these failures and all of what the bill contains associates with this situation that those who have made this law did not really carry out a quality analysis of the consequences of its application. Once again, Mr. Minister, on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group, I call on you to withdraw the law from the procedure, because it is likely to experience the fate of someone on 21 or 28 October 2010 in front of the Constitutional Court, as two laws have been mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46115	Twelve minutes used by the MPs' group. The People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojević has the word. After him is the Messenger of the people, Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46116	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, but above all the citizens of Serbia, the respected citizens of Serbia, when we hear the argument and the sight of some people in the opposition as they imagine we're making laws, I'm not sure if they're putting out their own collection here right now to act if they're passing laws or they really don't know how laws are passed, so they think we're going to lie down in the evening to sleep and dream about these laws, or maybe we take Bucharest, so we're reading something about laws in Bucharest. These laws, first of all, are passed so that they are brought into line with world experiences, with domestic regulations, with the Constitution and the applicable laws of this country. When you hear the opposition's various arguments, I would ask myself, is it possible, if that Britain hadn't failed, if it hadn't bankrupted this Netherlands, if France hadn't really failed with such laws? But these countries exist, these laws are applied there, of course, those countries don't pass laws overnight. They have built their legal order through years of experience, through one tradition, these countries of the European Union have made such provisions by consulting the professional public, universities, professors, people in the profession, and there is no reason for us to invent hot water ourselves now. Of course, we follow the same time we pass these laws, we call on the professional public, interested individuals, we invite all those people who want to participate in the public debate, and what is particularly worrying, I am an MP already in the second session and for the third year, I do not remember any of the professional associations calling me and saying – Mr Milivojevic, our association has made a bill, please, defend that law in the Assembly, suggest it. Perhaps it would be good if the professional associations acted before the law was passed, if the professional associations responded with the intention of repairing and facilitating their position, not leaving it to others. On the other hand, do not absolutely doubt and cultivate any belief that any law in this country is passed without consultation with the profession, without following other applicable legal rules, but above all all all the laws that we make are trying to have a foothold in the Constitution, as well as a roof of those laws that we adopt and which clearly determine the coordinates in which these laws will apply and apply. This is a new law. This law does not represent an amendment to some of the laws that have been in force so far, but rather a whole new legal solution. I didn't understand everything I heard in the discussion, so, say, a pig can be a dangerous burden. Maybe if he bites someone, but here the people sitting in this room mostly talk to the pigs while that pig is in a roasted state when they can't bite anyone. On the other hand, I don't know what it means to fail to understand Article 12, which clearly states that it will be passed in this law, that it will be formed, in Article 10 of the Transporting of Dangerous Freight. This is said in Article 9, and in Article 10(1) to (35) defines the tasks and tasks of that administration, these tasks are clearly defined and precise, to anyone who wants to understand them they are understandable. The law can always be corrected, either by amendments, or through the implementation of practice, there is always an opportunity for the opposition to express its dissatisfaction with the law by submitting amendments and so far there have been so many times that people from the competent ministry, from the resolution board, say – it is true, this amendment is good, meaningful, it aims to fix the content of the law and we will accept it. We were never ashamed to say this – sorry, we may have made a mistake, your legal solution is better and we accept it in everything, but to say that the law is so bad and that it should be withdrawn from the legal procedure and then let us read on the pages of the daily press how many incidents, incidents and other unsatisfactory events occur, when it comes to carrying a dangerous burden, is a very wrong approach. I'm just going to remind you, Mr. Mrkonjic, and also to ask you, when we did, now I speak as a Kruševljanin, a hydroaccumulation system of the cell, it was forbidden to carry any dangerous burden along that water supplying waterway and clearly set up traffic signs that prohibited the transfer, transport of oil derivatives and all other oils and substances that could pollute the water supply of around 250,000 people. Unfortunately, these signs have disappeared over time and no one's setting them up, they're not returning to the position they're supposed to be standing in. Today, beside our water streams, and especially by the waterfalls, cruise trucks with dangerous loads. We even had a situation where these trucks fell into the lakes from which Serbian citizens are supplied with water. Of course, the criminal provisions of this law will first and foremost act dissuasive when it comes to such conduct. It is not the legislator's intention to punish citizens, businesses, to impose penalties. The intention of the legislator to give criminal provisions is to act preventively and to defend. If someone thinks that the Republic of Serbia's budget will be filled with penalties, they deceive and frighten citizens. Nor is it our intention to fill the Republic of Serbia's budget with penalties, nor is the legislator's intention to be a source of government funding or any other activity. It is clear how the budget is being filled and exactly where this item in the budget will be intended and it is clearly known that all the criminal provisions in the laws passed by this government and adopted by this Parliament are primarily used as a prevention, because there is no saying in vain in our people – one penalty, you will understand a thousand. That is why I call on you to support these legal solutions, to give strong support through amendments to correct certain shortcomings, but you cannot criticise this law with the desire to withdraw it and not to bring it, and to say that this law will ruin Serbia, that it will destroy transport in Serbia, that it will destroy the car carriers, because if it has not ruined the car carriers in other countries of the world, it will not do so in Serbia either. I urge you to consider all future laws carefully, carefully read, in time to make meaningful proposals, amendments. We are here to hear these amendments and proposals, to accept, to adopt, because we are not bringing the laws for the sake of the benefit of the DS, the ruling majority, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but for the sake of the citizens of this country and the future of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46117	Seven minutes and 50 seconds have been used by the MP's group. The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Michalo Puric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46118	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a proposal for a law on the transport of dangerous cargo that should regulate this area, but the question remains to be seen how to implement it in practice. In the last ten years, Serbia has become, I would say, an ideal station for ending transport tours, various poisons, various wastes that unfortunately ended in our forests instead of at the border, beside the water springs, in national parks, on the edge of large cities by local dumps, etc. Speaking of national parks, here's one of the latest examples. A dangerous burden goes down the Danube River from Vienna. All ramps are open on the Danube, I mean EU countries. It comes to Ledinac, Frusca Gora, National Park. We should ask ourselves – what happens to the burden that comes from Vienna to Ledinac? That's a question for you, see what it's about. As our country of Serbia, which, as far as we can see, has been running unsustainably towards the EU for some 11 years, and the EU has been evading further and further, someone has made good use of this discreet closing of its eyes to sow tons and tons of dangerous foreign waste that could be classified as the most dangerous of all souls. So in Serbia, for example, in various locations, in the mountains, in privatised factories, perhaps even for this purpose, they were privatized, especially those who in a suspicious way and suspected individuals reached into their hands, found various containers, barrels, whole shipments of tons of carefully packed drugs that expired as they waited, grew up in a roof to slowly leak into the land and so unnaturally contaminated, and sometimes someone had to transport. Not to mention burning hazardous waste, especially in high furnaces that have cements, ironworks and some other enterprises like that. Of course, this law does not only apply to the transport of hazardous waste, but also to a burden that can be defined as dangerous and, for example, necessary raw materials for industrial production, especially in the chemical, oil industry, as well as for the needs of the military industry, as well as a burden that is in transit through our Republic of Serbia. You wanted this law to sublime all those laws, as well as international conventions adopted in the Serbian Parliament, which in some ways refer to dangerous substances and their use in the hope that it would warn any possible situation that could at some point be disastrous for people and for the environment. A large part of the law refers to the preventive treatment of express bodies and legal entities involved in the transport of hazardous waste. Although knowing how laws are respected and implemented here in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia and in force, it is difficult to change anything about this law. Certain suggestions regarding this law will also be given to you by the MPs of the SRS, and they have mostly been transferred to the amendments. At the very beginning, in the opening provision, in Article 1, we find point 2) in point 2 on which we can immediately say that because of this point 2), a good part of this law will be devised, and that point is quoted as saying, "The provisions of this law do not apply to" and now point 2), meaning I quote part of this point "as well as military forces and other state organisations which, according to a special agreement, use the traffic infrastructure of the Republic of Serbia". Therefore, respected citizens of Serbia, this law, or its provisions, will not apply to the military forces of other states and organisations using our transport infrastructure under a special agreement, and these military forces of other passing states, which cruise our roads, are in fact NATO pact military troops. If you know that there are other forces in Serbia that cruise our roads, correct me. You may think you've avoided making NATO soldiers bound by this law. Believe me, nowhere would it have changed had it been said that the provisions of this law applied to the military forces of other states passing through Serbia, but that NATO pact did not hesitate to break the UN Charter, it did not hesitate to tear down our hospitals, schools, bridges, nursing homes, to kill innocent citizens, to kill children, to target maternity homes. He didn't hesitate to sow tape bombs across Serbia, and now, let's say, he respects the law that, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, came out of your office, so you correctly assessed that it would be in vain that you made them bound by this law to comply with the provisions. Not only won't anyone care what they drive through Serbia and coma, they don't even care how they drive. We have an example in both Serbia and the environment, because they remain dead and pedestrians and other traffic participants, and in Macedonia, you probably know that, American soldiers managed to run over even the Macedonian minister. Ask yourself how this soldier who committed this serious offense was punished. All the damage and responsibility was taken over by the Macedonian state. So is this capitulant SOFA agreement that Serbia has properly shamed itself by giving NATO to use traffic and other infrastructure when passing through our country. The agreement mentioned here in this law is absolutely not processed in a broader sense by this area because its provisions are essentially of a declarative character. In this proposal for a law, Article 8 refers to a situation where a participant in the transport of a dangerous burden is to cause damage to the satisfaction of the insurance that that participant must have. Now the question is, what about that damage where there's a far-reaching limit insurance can pay? Since radio-hazarding substances that can produce major environmental damage, such as the cause of river pollution, the origin and destruction of the entire plant and animal world, the killing of fish, the damage may well be irreparable, or, for example, the contamination of land due to the factors that occurred on some masteral road, where the participant in the transport, specifically the carrier did not manage the provisions of this law. The land was destroyed, groundwater threatened, forest drying threatened, and all that cost. As a form of compensation for the damage done, the SRS suggests that damages and property of the participants in the transport be left to you, not only the amount he accepted as insurance for the participant in the transport. You can also see it on a case that I'm going to suggest that you'd realize that this particular member is hiding the possibility that someone thought-out, I'd say, as an entrepreneur accepts a peaceable soul punishment of 100-500 thousand dinars or a 30-day prison sentence for not being secured. It's a situation if he gets caught, and the same will happen in the event of an emergency as you called "relieving" a dangerous burden. That's why I mentioned this amount prescribed in Article 89(2), which directly refers to Article 8, so you said, so, Mr. Minister, that someone can consciously move fat from the intentional rollover of a tanker in the middle of nowhere with chemicals that a company has been ratified in a practical way and that would probably be a great cost of exporting this waste abroad for further processing. The figures are astronomical and certainly someone who accepts such a stage for big money because you are trying to ensure safe and legal transport of dangerous cargo and to prevent such situations. I think there's a lot of disparity at the level of punishment, and then the price of housing or depositing or processing for exporting this dangerous burden, and we have a picture all over Serbia's cities, you've probably had a chance to see it, too, that on the markets we see peasants selling some strange barrel, empty and washed, a question where, as a packaging for the accommodation of cereals or other intentions, and on the barrels there are labels with a clearly visible dead man's head. We remember the example of the company Helius from Gornji Milanovac, whose transport of dangerous waste was located in barrels that ended up on Mount Rudnik, where the peasants found this barrel in the woods, took, cleaned the packaging and sold it at the market. It's not burning to mention that only one kilo on the illegal market is worth $1,600 in nuclear waste disposal. There are probably those who will reach for their radioactive waste from their country to be transported illegally to Serbia thanks to unconscious individuals. It will be good if you manage to track the entire flow of transport, start from loading, transport, retaining dangerous cargo in the vehicle, then overloading, changing the means of transport or vision in traffic until unloading and disposal or storage of dangerous cargo. There is also the possibility that you will be able to comply with some of the laws that you have stated in your reasoning because, in certain activities in the process of transporting dangerous cargo, not all of these laws can be complied with because each law has its own specificities, so someone can be called upon by a member of the law, such as packaging waste or the waste management law that does not allow it, and this law allows it. This is a member of what I've been saying and giving examples. It is Article 27, which prescribes what to do for a participant in the transport of a dangerous burden if he, I quote, disappears. How can this happen that, for example, a 25-ton load of pyrolene or liquid cyanide disappear, and then a carrier shows up, and by this Article 27, it reports the disappearance of a dangerous burden, and then it moves, since it has an obligation on that member, to search for it itself? And here can those who want to stir it up and make no money not caring for people's lives, for the environment, say, stage theft, someone has destroyed that dangerous cargo somewhere, later find a vehicle, a carrier under Article 89(2) pays 500,000 dinars, or goes to prison for 30 days because it wasn't secured properly, and puts a sum in the pocket that's 10 times the amount of this fine. And that's a very possible solution, Mr. Minister, that can happen in reality. For the sake of time, I'll try to look back at a few more members of this law. He is also a member of 37, under which the participant in the transport is obliged to train the person admitted to work in the transport of dangerous cargo. Since it is sensitive matter, if there were a lot of people who had already been trained and owned certain certificates for these jobs, it would be logical to employ already qualified persons for these needs. Many will abuse this possibility that you give them under the pretext, if an emergency occurs, that the person in the training or training phase and that under the supervision of the waste instructor took part in the transport of hazardous waste. In Article 44, point 1 mention the specifics which it says – the vehicle for transporting dangerous cargo is operated by the driver if, in point 3, you say – referred to its obligations. I don't think there's anything to say about being directed or uninformed. This can be interpreted as being, at the same time, superficially notified of its obligations. The right and the right legal solution would be that the driver knows his obligations rather than just being directed. Question – can the judge only be referred to laws and regulations or electric engineers for electricity business or some neimar that would design bridges, traffic, etc.? They need to know their obligations and their jobs. Also, Mr. Minister, I don't think our train stations transporting large quantities of dangerous cargo have adequate conditions for loading and for receiving dangerous cargo. They're going through big cities and, imagine, there's a collision of train compositions, one of which, say, pulls 20 tanks of ammonia or other dangerous chemicals? In the end, I would like to comment on article 80 in the surveillance section. In bet 1, you submitted inspection controls to the methods of random vehicle selection. When it comes to this kind of transport, it takes a different kind of control that all entrepreneurs, legal entities involved in the transport of dangerous cargo, would go through. For this kind of transport, there's no random vehicle choice. Finally, what is the characteristic of this law is the administrative determination of administration, advisors and instructors. There's a feeling they're just about to pass the law. There is an impression, too, that some members who are dealing with some serious issues about the transport of hazardous waste are left with the possibility of their ambiguous interpretation, which I don't think is good.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46119	The time used by the parliamentary group is 16 minutes. The word has been given by the People's MP, Mihailo Puric, after which the MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46120	The President-in-Office, Your Honor, Mr Minister, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, is ahead of us with a joint principled search and a unique search into the proposal for a law on the transport of dangerous cargo and on a bill on the approval of an air traffic agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt. I'll just say a few sentences on the draft air traffic agreement law between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt. This confirmation of an air traffic agreement between the two countries will be a step forward in the relations between the two countries, as it is a modern agreement which is largely determined by air traffic relations between the Republic of Serbia and the Arab Republic of Egypt and promoting and meeting high international standards. This agreement opens wider possibilities for both foreign contractors and other entities in the overall economic movements between the Republic of Serbia and the Arab Republic of Egypt. When it comes to the bill on the transport of dangerous cargo, I will first and foremost talk about what the law really says and what this law really represents. The reasons for the adoption of the law are contained in the fact that the Republic of Serbia has ratified, i.e. confirmed a number of international agreements governing the transport of dangerous goods and ratified international agreements provide for very important newspapers that regulate the security of transport of dangerous goods in road, rail, water and air traffic. The existing 1990 law and the Government of Serbia's 2002 regulation are unable to implement ratified international agreements, as they cannot establish a system of authorised natural and legal persons to carry out dangerous cargo transport operations. They cannot establish supervision over the application of ratified international agreements, nor can they punish natural and legal persons found to have violated the provisions of those agreements. The applicable law and regulation shall not allow adequate monitoring of the hazardous load especially in the protected zone. The regulation of the transport of dangerous goods requires the application of ratified international agreements, and therefore there are no alternative solutions other than the adoption of a new law. Article 1 of the proposed law regulates the powers of state and specialised organisations in the transport of dangerous goods, special conditions for the transport of dangerous goods, as well as procedures in the event of emergency events in the transport of dangerous cargo and control of the enforcement of this law, both in road, rail, water and air traffic. I would like to point out that these provisions of this law are not applicable, and the law is clearly defined in which cases. They shall not apply to the transport of dangerous goods carried out by a company, another legal entity or undertaking for the purposes of its activity in one technical and technological continent. Two -- transporting a dangerous burden carried out in vehicles of the defence ministry, the MUP, the Serbian Army, military forces of other states and organisations using the traffic infrastructures of the Republic of Serbia under a special agreement. I note, according to a special agreement, and not the way we've heard it here, who thinks to carry a dangerous burden. The adoption and application of the laws on the transport of dangerous cargo will ensure the highest degree of security in the manipulation and transport of dangerous cargo. In addition, the proposed law will prevent all participants from transporting dangerous cargo. For the first time, the proposed law also provides for the establishment of a transport administration of dangerous goods. The management of the director appointed by the government for five years, on a proposal from the minister, and according to a law governing the position of civil servants. In Article 9 of this Law on the transport of dangerous goods, it is educated as a state administration body within the Ministry of Traffic Affairs. Article 10 clearly defines the responsibilities and tasks carried out by this authority for the transport of dangerous cargo. Article 13 of this Act provides that a participant in the transport of dangerous goods must use an appropriate type of packaging for transport. The obligations of the manufacturer to produce packaging under, a pressure vessel or a tank of a specific type approved by the authority for the transport of dangerous goods are also defined on the basis of the examination report issued by the authorised body. For the first time, the proposed law introduces a safety adviser institute in the transport of dangerous goods in the road, rail, water and air transport, where Article 13 clearly states that a participant in the transport of dangerous cargo, based in the Republic of Serbia, must have at least one safety adviser in the transport of dangerous cargo, except in the cases provided for in Article 2(2) of this Act. The adoption and application of the laws on the transport of dangerous goods will ensure compliance with the procedures for the removal of the consequences of emergency events that have threatened persons or the polluted environment, as well as the obligation of participants in the transport of dangerous burdens to compensate for the full amount of damage resulting from the event. The envisaged law defines a system of supervision of the application of the provisions, as well as of ratified international agreements, as well as of sublegal acts adopted under the law. The law also provides for the punishment of economic offenders and offenders established by this law. The adoption of a law on the transport of dangerous cargo gives Serbia a good and modern law that is in line with EU rules, which will allow safe and reliable transport, will increase the safety of traffic participants and clearly define the rules in the area. In the voting day when it is representatives of the DS will vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46121	Five minutes and twenty seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word is from MP Dusan Maric, followed by MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46122	Ladies and gentlemen, in order to make it more clear to the viewers who are watching this session that it is important that the area of transport of dangerous substances is regulated by a special law, I will remind myself of several examples of so-called incidents with tragic consequences. Canada in 1989; a train carrying chlorine jumped out of the tracks, with chlorine exposure from several tanks, the consequences of evacuation of two hundred thousand people. Afghanistan in 1982; tanks loaded with gasoline in a tunnel, unfortunately, filled with people, killed 2,700 people. In 1982, Petrochemy burned down an auto-cister with liquid ethylene, two people died. Germany in 1987; a tanker carrying gasoline caused a collision, the life of six people and Krnjac in Belgrade in 1998, an explosion of a motor tank with liquid ammonia, one face killed, three seriously injured. As far as the bill itself is concerned, even if it is ideal in the rest of the text, even if it is literally implemented and respected, the first member of this proposal is such that it leaves an unlimited possibility for environmental incidents to occur in Serbia and to comply with this law. Quoting Article 1(2), paragraph 2, says: "The provisions of this law do not apply to the transport of dangerous cargo carried out by vehicles of the Ministry of Defence, the interior ministry, Serbia's armies, as well as the military forces of another state and organisations using the transport infrastructure of RS under a special agreement." It is clear that this second part of this provision applies to NATO military units. I recall that Serbia, in July 2005, seemed to have signed an agreement with NATO that agreed that this international military organisation was being uninterrupted and without any restrictions on the territory of RS used for the transport of people, techniques, military and war material. There is practically no material in military and war material that can be swept under this category and a dangerous burden. It is not known what is a more dangerous burden, whether soldiers, especially if they are occupying soldiers, as well as their technique and their cannons and mortars, ammunition or weapons that they carry with them. The agreement also refers to NATO's armed forces in the KIM occupation mission. Under the agreement, we are practically obliged in one part of the RS territory to provide unlimited hospitality, when it comes to the acceptance of the NATO Pact transport units, the occupation army that holds the occupied second part of RS territory. I have to make one parallel at 1914, after the assassination of Franco Ferdinand in Sarajevo. Austria-Hungarian asked the Kingdom of Serbia to allow two police inspectors of the Kingdom to participate in an investigation conducted in the territory of the Kingdom of Serbia in order to discover an organisation network of assassins. Although she was faced with an ultimatum that meant: either you will accept our inspectors or you will be attacked, the Kingdom of Serbia has estimated that the request of Austro-Hungarian is inadmissible much in its sovereignty and has rejected the request. Under the agreement, signed in 2005, NATO's pact forces in RS territory, means, during the crossing of Serbia's territory, they enjoy full immunity from everything and everything. NATO troops have immunity from arrest, detention or confiscation of their property. They have full immunity for everything they say, write or do. They're protected from any judicial legal process. So they can literally do what they want. That means, practically, and that says in the agreement, that NATO troops in Serbia can rob, kill, do whatever they want, they will pass, as far as legislation and legal order of the RS are concerned, completely unpunished. This means that they can drive through the territory of the Republic of Serbia all kinds of dangerous goods and dangerous substances, without any restrictions, from war poisons to, say, ammunition with impoverished uranium, which is a component of the NATO pact's dearmament. I ask the question is whether the NATO pact has this incredible privilege of transporting what it wants through Serbia and, whenever it wants, maybe by dropping 20,000 tons of bombs on RS territory only ten years ago, on the territory of Republika Srpska 10,000 tons of bombs, of which several thousand tons of bombs and grenades that were fired contained in the poored uranium? I read some analyses a few years ago and it has been confirmed that in the part of the ammunition used to bomb Serb positions in KIM and Republika Srpska, ammunition with plutonium was used, which is multiplely more toxic than poor uranium. What does that mean? In practice, this means that in the next 20-30 generations at least the Serbian people will be poisoned by this ammunition: poor uranium and plutonium. Also, I remind you, and ask if it may have been a service that deserved the privilege of NATO, that it bombed the RS, in which I recall that 3,500 people were killed, that killed 15,000 people, killed 73 children, destroyed more than 300 bridges and schools, or perhaps by the occupation of KIM, or perhaps by killing more than 2,000 Serbs who were kidnapped in KIM and killed at a time when they were in their safety concerned by the NATO Pact. I also remind you of the murder of little Milica Rakic in a bathroom in Batajnica, of the bombing of the RTS building, of the train bombing on the Grdelička Klisur Bridge. When all these crimes are taken into account, the dishonest, inhumane behaviour of the NATO Pact and NATO member states towards the Serbian people and Serbia, one fundamental question is raised -- how can we believe that how many NATO pacts through Serbia or through Belgrade will not carry ammunition with the impoverished uranium tomorrow? We don't have any evidence that he doesn't already. This ammunition will eventually shoot and kill some other people, as he killed Serbian children ten years ago. The SRS believes that NATO is an occupation pact, that NATO's pact units should not be allowed to pass through RS territory, let alone transport a dangerous burden when crossing RS territory. In this regard, we have suggested that point 2) be deleted in Article 1. It's a bill of law. I also want to remind myself of the fact that it is not enough just to adopt laws, it is much more important whether these laws will be applied and how they will be implemented. How can we believe that this government will apply this law in the field of transport and environmental science, if we have an example that this same government does not respect some law itself, some regulations in the field of environmental science? I've talked here several times about the government's June 2008 decision to build a waste warehouse at a former military warehouse in Krnjevo near the Great Plane. Although the decision is completely illegal, which I will now talk about and if due to the resistance of the locals is not applied and cannot be applied, the government has been refusing to put this decision out of force for two years. I ask, here is Mr. Mrkonjic, why is this stubbornness and the drive of spite, how is the government so reluctant to admit one obvious wrong decision? I remind you, the government's regulation on how to deal with hazardous waste is that dangerous waste cannot be stored less than five kilometers from the inhabited area. This potential warehouse is located only a few hundred meters from the first rural houses. This issue has been moving for a year and a half, the ministers have been defiling here, but I still don't get a single answer or the government changes this unreasonable decision. Under the same regulation, waste must be at least three kilometers from the nearest natural good and three kilometers from the monument of culture. This warehouse is located several hundred metres from the oldest building of the primary school in Serbia and close to the church cabin, which was built in the 17th century and is one of the oldest church cabins in our country. Also, the warehouse is less than 500 metres from the water source from which the settlement Krnjevo, which has four thousand inhabitants and schools with 300 students, is supplied with water. I also point out that the Spatial Plan of the Municipality of Great Plan has been confirmed by the competent republican authority, and that the competent republican authority is under the authority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the regulatory plan of the populated town of Krnjevo does not provide for the possibility of dangerous waste being stored in that area. The last question that I will ask, and this is about this problem, if you continue to pursue such a decision, is really a question – do you adopt these laws to implement them, to ensure safe transport, to protect the nature of Serbia, to achieve some ecological standards or to adopt them for the sake of order. I must refer to one claim by my colleagues from the ruling coalition, defending this law and this rapid pace of adoption of this law, he said – see how the living citizens of France, Germany, Great Britain, the Netherlands, the United States, thanks to the good laws they have standards that they have. I don't think there's a man in Serbia who watches this transmission and believes that the citizens of France, Germany, the UK, live well above all thanks to good laws. They live well above all thanks to the fact that the last five centuries have been relocated by colonial forces that occupied half the planet and pillaged natural resources across America, Europe, Africa, and Asia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46123	12 minutes of MP time was used. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic, followed by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46124	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister and fellow MPs, the law that is before us today governs a fully delicate area of transport of dangerous cargo. The law regulates the transport of dangerous cargo in road, rail, air and water transport. It also includes all provisions of an international agreement signed by our country, which refers to the area of transport of dangerous cargo. Since the Law of the 1990s and the 2002 Regulation which currently regulate this matter have been overcome, this is a comprehensive bill that will overcome security risks. When I say security risks, I mean, in practice, no complete control of the transport of dangerous cargo is provided. The dangerous load shall be transported in unsuitable packaging and tanks which are not approved by the type, or code; there shall be no authorised and professional persons for the organisation and control of the transport of dangerous cargo; no adequate monitoring of the transport of dangerous cargo through protected zones shall be enabled. The authorisation procedure for tanks and other vehicles for the transport of dangerous goods is inadequate. This bill will, of course and by applying, enable preventive action, stress preventive action and thus reduce the number of incidents. The highest degree of security in the manipulation and transport of dangerous cargo will be ensured, the problems that arise in practice, both with inadequate packaging and with means of transport for the transport of dangerous cargo, will be harmonised against domestic legal and natural persons carrying out the transport of dangerous goods with already confirmed international agreements and technical regulations contained therein. The paper is the education of the Board of Transport of Dangerous Loads as a state administration body within the Ministry of Traffic Affairs. Article 10 of this proposal provides for a number of administration responsibilities, and I think also responsibilities. The advantage of the establishment of the administration is that coordination will be performed from one place in order to provide full service support to participants in the transport of dangerous cargo, of course with the systematic application of already confirmed international agreements. The adoption of this law will allow professional training and the appointment of a safety adviser for a dangerous burden in each transport participant, the designation and authorisation of test and body experts to assess the conformity of production of new and technical correctness of existing means of transport of dangerous load. The exchange of information on authorised domestic natural and legal persons performing certain functions in the achievement of security will be possible. This draft law lays down procedures for removing the consequences of emergency events in which persons and the environment are at risk, as well as the obligations of participants in the transport of dangerous burdens to compensate for the overall damage caused by the emergency. A system of supervision of the application of this law, as well as approved international agreements, will be established. This proposal also provides for adequate punishment for the perpetrator of commercial offences and offences established by the same law. The adoption of this law's proposal is not only the mere harmonisation of our legislation with signed international agreements, but the need for our country to act primarily preventively, protecting the lives and health of its citizens, the environment and its economy. That's why I invite you all to vote on your vote in the day of the vote for the adoption of this law. I will vote for this law, and so will my colleagues from the ZES parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46125	Four minutes and 45 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word has been given to MP Momir Markovic, followed by MP Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46126	I don't know, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, but Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic always gets this law, almost defenseless, and he comes here before us a man and he tries to defend the law with all his powers. But, let's get this straight, that's his karma, what to do. Mr. Secretary said this is a new law. Right, it's new, but so far all legal solutions have paid special attention to security in manipulation, transport, distribution and consumption of dangerous substances. Since 1950 and some years since the use of these materials, called dangerous, has been legal first in the Democratic Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, then in the SFRY, then in the SRJ, and to this day special attention has been paid to this particular matter. I can tell you as someone who has spent half a working century, and I've spent half a working century in a company that was engaged in transporting and distributing exactly one of these dangerous substances, that I witnessed where our legal acts, our legal projects, are from what is now called the EU, and it seemed quite different and it was quite different and it was quite different, it was called the European Community. Our legal projects, our legal solutions and within the European Community have been adopted. Therefore, experts in the field of legislation, as well as in the field of work, manipulation with dangerous substances, the state of Serbia has and has never been defiant in them. And today, companies that deal with this business have top experts and have world-renowned experts. But since it's a new law, let's talk about the law a little bit. At the very beginning, I will also appeal to the position of Article 2 of this Law, where it says - the provisions of this law are not applied, so it says - to the transport of a dangerous burden carried out by the vehicles of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior, the Serbian Army and I will stop and ask - what is it that the Ministry of Defence and what is it that the Serbian Army can transport, and that the civil servant, therefore, the government official, the government of which these two ministries are also subdued, cannot control. If this solution remains, then much more will happen to us than what happened to Batocina a few years ago, that the irresponsibleness of the elders in one unit has put the entire highway a few miles away. Let me remind you, Mr. Minister, then a military vehicle planted grenades on the highway, so there was a closed highway for several hours and a few hours were very carefully these grenades, which fell out of the truck, collected. What is it that can't control the state that its subservient ministries or services and organizations do under the ministries? Therefore, I believe that this point 2 in Article 1 should certainly be deleted and because of what my colleagues in the SRS have been talking about, so, the Sofa Agreement, NATO soldiers, control of it. Only this law can allow us in some way to enter into their Sofa agreement, because it is unequivocal. We've literally given them the opportunity to go uninterrupted. Only this law can allow us in some way or at least a little control over what they are transporting and how it is ensured that they are transporting, since their transport can be devastating and the excises from that transport can be very dangerous, not only for the area in which they occur, but for a much wider area of the Serbian state. And Serbia as a country is relatively small, and then much bigger space would take up the fact that it is covered by that accent. Therefore, I believe that this point 2 of Article 1 should be deleted. Despite the successful legal solutions we've had so far, there have been incidents of ammonia in Padinska Skela, ammunition at Batocina, so during the bombing, luck and extraction of the first spark of Baric from the reservoir, so there could have been a literal disaster over Belgrade. And the war situation is in any case a situation that can cause an acid with this kind of matter. What does this law get you? First, there is a new administration, a administration that will be filled with personnel that are unscheduled in other administrations, agencies, ministries etc., absolutely unnecessary. Or, if someone should already be deployed, he must have top-notch qualifications in this area. The question is whether those who are unscheduled in other ministries are qualified to come to this administration and the next day manage the entire of one beauty of business in this area and to command, to even order, to give orders to people who are far more qualified, more capable and skilled than they are. In Articles 11 and 12, you said that unequivocally. Article 39 says this - approval for the type of vehicle for the transport of dangerous cargo is the instrument issued by the Administration on the basis of a report on the examination of the type of vehicle for the transport of dangerous cargo. There's something not clear to me here. As far as I can tell, it's not the type of vehicle that matters, and it's not the type of vehicle being questioned, it's the court where the dangerous load is transported. So, tanker, if it's a tanker. The type of vehicle, one puller breaks down, takes off, attaches to the other, and it can be I don't know how many times an interrogation truck pulls, doesn't matter at all. It's important that the tanker be questioned. You're talking about packaging and interrogation in article 13. Mr. Minister, until now, it's been an obligation to, say, every five years, transport and distribution courts and the exploitation of technical gases, and I mean propane and butane, and I mean chlorine, and I mean nitrogen, and I mean many others, disugassing, etc. The obligation was to be questioned for five years. Since I worked at a transport and distribution company of liquid gas, I know very well that after five years all the bottles, all the tanks had to go to so-called. A test, where the pressure rises five times the work pressure. So you in the bottle you use in the household have a pressure of 5 bars. The bottle is tested at 25 bars and 24 hours she has to be under that pressure, and if she doesn't lose shape, then she's just getting a brand from the inspector of steam boilers. So far, inspectors of steam boilers have had the right to confirm with their stamp the correctness of that court. It's not the situation today. There may be a few million bottles in Serbia today. The company involved in transport and distribution was obliged to examine any bottle with which the stamp expired and was brought into the loading room, every tank that was coming, and it was past its deadline. Today there is no reason why the first bottles are imported from abroad, the question is the quality of theirs, the question of their regularity. Today, the companies for filling and exploiting these courts have no obligation and you will come into a situation where the bottles of a few years run out of guarantees of the five years that the inspector gave you, putting his stamp on that bottle. There's another danger I've noticed, like a man who's a little bit of an understanding of the job. When you come to fill a bottle with one that fills cars, you can't measure the amount and it's very dangerous, it's prescribed that no more than 200 grams per bottle of 10 kilograms, let's say, of gas, no more than 200 grams can, because then there's a much more pressure in that gas drop if 100 grams over that 200 grams of gas is in there. Today you come, he fills you with an ominous method, very dangerous. It's better not to have a kilo of gas than to have 100 grams more than prescribed. Such a bomb, it is no longer a bottle that is a good servant in the household, but such a bomb enters the house, especially if it has not been studied for several years and especially if it has lost shape and strength due to increased pressure. A real danger of an explosion, of a fire, of burning down a man's apartment, of guilt or debt. This law doesn't regulate it. This law would also have to oblige distributors in one bar member, to oblige importers to keep bottles which have expired cannot be in the household, in exploitation. The question of passing expert exams for those who are involved in transport, distribution, manipulation of dangerous substances, I am primarily speaking in this area that I know little about. It should not be allowed for someone who is even in training without strict control of someone who has already passed a test for a tanker of technical gases, say, to approach and fill that bottle. The examination took place before the Commission of the Union of Energists of Serbia. A very professional, very difficult exam and only with this passed exam could someone be a gas charger, working on a Bhutan pump, driving a gas tank, because usually a gas tanker, the manipulation of the gas flow is done by the tanker and driving. So, the Commission must and I think that so far, the Union of Energyists has worked extremely well, well and correctly, and I think that the Union of Energists of Serbia or any other institution established by the Ministry or the state of Serbia has the right to issue certificates on the exams and on the expertise of the people involved in this matter. Today, we have a public company dealing with this particular transport and distribution of natural and liquid oil gas, or two. They are mainly disproved or cut down by laws that are passed, while top experts from the area and from these companies are not consulted. I think the ministry should pay a lot more attention here. Councilors who will be in companies, in companies dealing with transportation and distribution, and even so far, businesses have had it, only they may not have been called advisers, but they were called referents, etc. And so far, he's in businesses that do this job. So it's not about people who are in businesses, it's about those who might be abuse, maybe manipulation comes to a lot of other things. Basically, when privatisation started, a lot of things got out of hand, especially these things in this area that could be, not just harmful, but catastrophic. I did not in my discussion attach the part relating to another kind of dangerous substance, and I mean chlorine, ammonia, gasoline, flammable agents, etc. In the end, I'm going to end up with this, Mr. Minister, you as a ministry have to advocate that dangerous substances never transport, pass through cities, through inhabited areas. For 20 years now, we've been talking about moving the railroad next to Sava. For 20 years, an alternative solution has been sought. However, something else is forgotten, with motor tanks, which are also dangerous and which are bombs at points at any time, must be found an alternative way to avoid Belgrade. It is only now that Gazela is closed and when the entire freight transport has to go through Rakovica, this part of the road, that you see only now how much in fact this dangerous, flammable, explosive material, harmful, in any case if there is an incident, passes through downtown Belgrade. Belgrade must, not only Belgrade, but all cities, pay particular attention because it is an extremely dense settlement, because the smallest incident, God forbid, would cause a disaster of huge proportions.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46127	MP Mirko Chikiriz has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46128	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we talked about the Traffic Safety Act on the roads, we all agreed to it, and the law so prescribes and imposes life, that the vehicle in motion is a dangerous thing. A moving vehicle can cause major adverse effects, both material, life - threatening, and environmental hazards. But a moving vehicle carrying toxic, explosive, harmful matter is a much greater danger than an ordinary vehicle on the move, as well as harmful substances that are not in motion can be self-inflammable, can be explosive, toxic, can result in a series of unfortunate circumstances that can endanger not only traffic and traffic users, but also human health and the environment. According to the categorisation of hazardous materials transported in all areas of traffic, road, air, rail and river, there are nine categories, however, since they cannot be strictly separated, the rules governing the transport of certain substances, which have their similarities, are applied in such a way that the regulation that applies, for example, to three substances, if all three substances are transported, all three types of rules governing the transport of one substance are applicable to the transport of all three substances. Secondly, we are witnessing that every household in Serbia uses vinegar acid on a daily basis, but it is interesting that the transport of vinegar is also involved in the transport of dangerous substances and is subject to legal regulations that we will definitely adopt after the debate on this legislative proposal. I think it is necessary to say that there is only so-called in Belgrade. 99 gambling zones, that there are dozens of industries and plants that produce storage and transport dangerous materials. I'll only mention "Long", "Galenicu", "Jugopetrol", "Technogas", "Belgrade Refinery", etc. Annually in the Republic of Serbia, a billion and 250 million tonnes of hazardous matter are produced, stored and transported. This data is sufficient to indicate what kind of potential environmental bomb can endanger both the environment and the health of people in a wider range. There are only large chemical complexes around Belgrade, Panchev and Baric, and I think that from 1991 to 2000, there were 80 chemical accidents, including 40 of which are in the transport of dangerous substances, showing how much it is necessary to pass a modern law, which is not only in line with European principles and the ADR agreement, which regulates the transport of dangerous materials in road transport on several hundred sides, but which is important for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because it also respects the development of new technologies. Let's not forget, except 92 natural elements that exist, chemical elements, all other elements chemically produced in laboratories are either explosive or flammable. Since I am an MP living in Kragujevac, I will only mention that the removal of 2,000 tonnes of toxic chemical waste from the Kragujeva flag in Belgrade, and then to the destruction abroad, was indeed one huge job, which the Kragujeva flag workers had done extremely well, but what is unfortunately due to the activities of people on these jobs is that indeed a large number of people received malignancies and the largest number of them, unfortunately, are no longer alive. I think it is necessary to mention today that the Republic of Serbia, probably under the programme in co-operation with this ministry, and above all with the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning, will in 2011, make such a plan a facility for the processing of hazardous waste, and this facility would process the entire hazardous waste produced at the level of one year in the Republic of Serbia. By not processing radioactive waste, carcinogenic and explosive matter. What is the interest of the EU? Not only do EU member states avoid the effects of this type, the EU will also finance this project with 14m euros, and the fact that some MPs have been present today, that the formation of a management is a huge cost, falls into the water only with the data that it will receive from the construction of this facility at an annual level of 5m and 1600,000 euros. These are the data that absolutely this law immediately starts with that political sound, and I think if there's any politics in some other laws, there's no politics in this one. There is a section mentioned by MPs, which refers to a line communication agreement signed by Mr Vuk Draskovic with the NATO Pact in 2005. Of course, there's a collision of two types of patriotism. In 1999, the SPO defended the country, defending it again under similar circumstances, because we were bombed against all rules of international public law. The church, country and family are defending themselves in all circumstances, but we have seen politics as the task of politicians and statesmen to turn all hostilities into friendships and never to be alone against the whole world again, not to lead the wrong policy, to have hearing about the environment, to have hearing about movements in the world and not to be in conflict but in alliance with the strong. That we were right at the time and that Mr Draskovic was then right to show also the mood that later changed in terms of strengthening the political will for European and Euro-Atlantic integration, and we know that these approaches are primarily to the US and NATO pact. We do not think that it is in the interests of Serbian citizens, and we must agree that today the security position of the Republic of Serbia is much better than its position in the 1990s and 2000s, but one of the contributions to this improved security position is the signing of this agreement. Since the current law is largely exceeded, that this law in a detailed way regulates everything needed for training and professional supervision, and for inspection, and for issuing the necessary transport permits, and for controlling transport, SPO MPs as the only right-hand side of the list for European Serbia will vote for this law in the day of voting.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46129	I thank and give my word to the MP, Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46130	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as regards the law on the transport of dangerous cargo, in the part of my discussion when I spoke as an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group, I have reasoned and fiercely criticised all the weaknesses of this law. Here we have heard from some MPs of the ruling majority that the opposition criticises every law just for criticism, that there are ways and models of how laws are written and that one of these laws is so written and that such a law is also written in some other countries, etc. I really want to say that this is a very serious law, whose any failure can have an extremely harmful not only but also tragic consequences for society, the state and beyond. My criticism in the part of the discussion as an authorised representative primarily referred to the Administration for the Transport of Dangerous Load, for the reason that this administration is established as a monopolitical-administrative body rather than as an expert body. I didn't want to say it, and I don't want to say it right now – there's no need for a body, even if it was called management, but that body or that administration has a professional or most professional component in it. However, we have seen from this law that this administration is everything but an expert component, given only the fact of how it is filled, or employed. So it's going to be all those who stayed unaligned in other state bodies, and among them it's certain that it's a very small, significant number, or maybe there's no man who's qualified for this job. Therefore, since it is a very important law, any failure can have inconspicuous consequences. The development of science and techniques takes all security measures to reduce these consequences. However, regardless of all of this, statistics and studies show that the same thing with the development of science and technology is increasing the possibility of having haemarium, incidents, or incidents, as currently said. I will support this with some concrete data and that is the basic reason why I also appeared in this part of the discussion within the SRS parliamentary group. Of all the incidents that occurred in the 20th century, 33% of these incidents occurred in the last decade of the 20th century. One third just in ten years and two thirds in 90 years. That says a lot. Of course, parallel to the occurrence of these incidents, or incidents, there was also material damage and there was one record in the United States that in the 20th century, the total damage caused by these handicrafts was 38 billion dollars, and of which, in the last decade of the 20th century, 15 billion dollars, almost half, slightly less than half the damage in the last ten years, the last decade of the 20th century. It still shows that this is an extremely important law. I'll give you another example. Everyone here in this room remembers, there's almost no one who doesn't remember one of the greatest handiworks that happened in the 20th century. It's about a carnage that happened at a pesticide factory in Bopal, a city in India. That's when a lot of people died. In the first six days after that haiarium, 50,000 people were poisoned or requested medical attention. Eight days after that haematism, after the incident, the number of deaths was already 2.5 thousand, and more than one third of them were children. Of those 50,000 that are hooked up with the consequences of this incident, many people have experienced severe nervous system disorders, and a good part of them has blinded. One study that was done, also related to this incident in Bopal, two years later showed that 25,000 victims died from it, with 50,000 suffering from mental disorders and persistent respiratory disorders. This is one of the most drastic incidents, but we've had these incidents. My colleagues talked about some of them. I'm just saying that we remember all the incidents, the incidents at the first spark factory, and so on in Luciani "The First Partizan" and so on. This is primarily about the transport of dangerous cargo and it is no less dangerous if the incident occurs when transporting dangerous cargo, than the incident that occurs at the factory where it is produced, transported, or overloaded. I remember an incident like that in the neighborhood I came from. In 1987, two Turkish speedboats crashed in one of the tunnels in the Siscevac gorge. There's been a massive explosion. The vault of the tunnel was damaged and somewhere over 100 meters away there was a visible flame due to that explosion. I'm saying all of this for the reason that I, too, should say, support dramatic data and indicate both the minister and those who wrote this law of its importance and its importance, because any and the slightest inaccuracies and the slightest consequence can be tragic. So once again at the end of this discussion, I would ask and appeal to Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic that he and his team consider this one more time and see all the amendments, whether they are Serbian Radical parties or from another party, if they think they contribute to improving the law to adopt them.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46131	Here you go, Minister. You have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46132	I have to say, it's easier for me than the other ministers that three former ministers are here, so I can always learn a lot from their experiences. Of course, I thank all the MPs who contributed to this discussion. I'll just comment briefly on a few things about what you just said. Mr. Savic has now finished his presentation, but has started with one topic that has mostly stretched through all discussions of most MPs who have been critical of this law. It's management, forming administration. Of course it's hard to control people's receptions in these administrations, but I'm allergic to agencies, because when we talked about how to control what we're doing right now, the only way we're doing it is if there's an organ in one ministry that needs to govern this law that we're talking about right now. Be careful, ten ministries took part in the realisation, in the creation of this law, of which five directly, police, military, urbanism, means ecology, agriculture and infrastructure. So over 50 people took part in it. It was supposed to be all set up to meet all the requirements and all the obligations. That's why management is so imaginary. I have to say right now, I think it's Professor. Shami said in his presentation, it is 25 to 30 people we now see that they should work on projects, but these are mostly people who work responsibly in each of these ministries on these topics that we are talking about here -- in the military, in the police, in the infrastructure, in the environment. So it won't be a mere filling, at least not until I'm a minister, of these jobs, but it'll be the concentration of people who do this job the best way, of course with some new ones who also know better that this matter is being controlled. As far as money is concerned, I don't think it's controversial, it's also the most said by Mr. Savivić, 80 million for starters, and we'll probably manage to make it out of money that's from punishment, although I repeat once again, I think Mr. Milivojevic was right, your discussion touched me, the prevention is very important. This country doesn't want to punish its citizens and make profit on them. These laws I'm talking about are preventative. I'll go back to the Traffic Safety Act again. We've had 150 fewer deaths so far since we've applied the new Traffic Act. Mr. Shami was, since today is his birthday, I congratulate him on his birthday, I'm sorry he's not here, in my opinion, very sharp, but without need. We suggest that he sit down and write down all those remarks he has and submit amendments to this group that he's been working on because so far we've only received 19 amendments and so far we've adopted nine. I'm asking Mr. Shami, I'm not going to look further at his sharp discussion, that everything he thinks is wrong, yes, and that we can fix it. In the inspirational performance of Velimir Ilic, one of the former ministers, it is quite clear that the programme and these governments are the same as the previous government programme, related to the implementation of projects particularly transportable or to single out railway infrastructures. Of course, the completion of the Belgrade railway node projects and the road crossings around Belgrade and all cities where it is planned is a basic precondition and prevent what concerns the transport of these dangerous substances from major city agglomerations. Today is not so, but another news that will probably cheer Velje up, we continue negotiations with the Russian side on a loan to complete works on the Belgrade railway node and on the Valjevo-Loznica railway line, and I believe that the works will begin on 1 March. It's a prerequisite for these substances to be thrown out of town. As for Mica Rogovic, I think he was sharp, but I also suggest he write the amendments, so let's see what you think is wrong. I give you my word that this group of people working on this project will hear it all. Radisa Ilic said a few things about management as well. I thank Michael Puric for the support he gave the law. For Mr Dusan Maric, who is again, for the second time since I have criticised in the Assembly, I am giving my assistant's order today, Mr Tomasevic, to go to Krnjevo in the morning and see what is there and to intervene on the spot. Moma Markovic gave some good suggestions and we will consider it. Mirko Chikiriz, too. I thank you for the support he gave the law. Once again, I must say that this law is merely a verification of international agreements on the transport of dangerous goods in road transport, the transport of dangerous goods in railways and the transport of dangerous cargo on internal waterways. The main objective of this law is to prevent all participants in the transport chain and reduce the number of incidents that occur in the transport of dangerous cargo. Thank you very much. As always, I learned a lot today.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-02-0.u46133	Mr. Minister, thank you for interpreting the government's position on the portfolio for which you are most responsible. Since there are no more statements on the lists of MPs, is there anyone who has not used his right under Article 96? Does the Rules of Procedure want to take part in the work? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint principle and uniform search on the proposal for a law on the transport of dangerous goods and a bill on the approval of the Air Traffic Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00 p.m. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 96 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 87 MPs are present in the hall, and there are working conditions. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Nikola Novakovic, Sinisa Stamenkovic and Zoran Kasalovic. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the proposing representative, Mr Nebojsa Bradic, Minister of Culture, I have also called for the sittings to attend: Snezana Stojanović Plavsic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture, whom we want a lot of success in the new function, Predrag Blagojevic, Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Tatjana Bojic Juric, Head of Legal Affairs at the Ministry of Culture. I say hello again. We move to the 16th item of the agenda: – Proposal for Law on Delegations and Fondancies (principles) You have adopted the bill submitted by the Government. You have received reports from the Committee on Culture and Information and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in the basic procedure, have a total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups of five hours and is distributed by parliamentary groups: For a European Serbia, one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 Group plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MP group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS parliamentary group - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; the MP group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every single one of them for up to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the MPs' groups have authorised them to represent: MP Konstantin Arsenović, Pujović MP, MP Laslo Varga, parliamentary group of minorities, MP Aleksandra Jankovic, MP of New Serbia, MP Sasa Dujovic, MP of the SPS-JS, MP Sasa Milenic, MP group G 17 plus, MP Svetlana Stojanović, MP of the DSS – Vojislav Kostunica, MP of the SRS, MP Nebojsa Rangelović, MP of the LDP, MP of Vesna Marjanović, MP of the ZES Group. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principled search on the bill Does the proposing representative, Mr Nebojsa Bradic, the culture minister, want a word? Yeah. )
