ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43542	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that there are 140 MPs present. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert identification cards into the e-system MPs. The application of the electronic voting system has shown that 155 MPs are present in the hall and that there are working conditions. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Bojan Kostreš and Mladen Grujic. According to Article 88(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to all the members of the government, I have called for today's session to be attended by Boris Tadic, the President of the Republic, and Dr Dusan Tabakovic, head of Serbia's legal team before the International Court of Justice in The Hague. In accordance with Article 84(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set by Article 84(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the need to discuss the draft agenda act set out in the Government’s request for an extraordinary session as soon as possible. With the invitation of the Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010, which was convened at the request of the Government, pursuant to Article 106(3), paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 169 Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, you have been sent a request to hold an extraordinary session with one item of the agenda. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a decision of the National Assembly on the Opinion of the International Court of Justice on the legality of the unilaterally declared independence of the provisional institutions of Kosovo and Metohia and the continuation of the activity of the Republic of Serbia in the defense of sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, you have received the proposal for a decision taken by the Government. Mr. Slobodan Samardzic is asking for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43543	Dear People's MPs, because of the importance of this topic and the debate we have today, under Article 94. Rules of Procedure, I suggest that the time of discussion be doubled and I ask the MPs to make their statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43544	I'm putting Mr Samardzic's motion to vote. Of the 215 MPs, 88 voted in favour of the proposal. I find the proposal not accepted. I remind you that according to Article 163(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours and shall be distributed as follows: to the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia - hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; to the SRS parliamentary group - hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; to the G17 plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; to the MP group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; to the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; to the parliamentary group SPS - JS - 18 minutes; to the parliamentary group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; to the parliamentary group Nova Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; to the sending group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and to the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them: MP Slobodan Samardzic – MP of the DSS – Vojislav Kostunica. According to Article 163(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. I give my word to Mr Dusan Batakovic, head of the Serbian Legal Team before the International Court of Justice in The Hague. Here you go, Mr. Batakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43545	Dear Mr. President, Madam President, Mr. Ministers, it is my honor to present to you a report on the advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice in The Hague on behalf of the Legal Team of the Republic of Serbia. On July 22nd 2010, the International Court of Justice in The Hague, as the UN's chief judicial body, issued an advisory opinion on whether a unilateral declaration of independence, adopted by the Interim Authorities of Local Self-Government in Kosovo was in agreement with international law on 17 February 2008. The procedure was formally initiated on 10 October 2008, by UN Secretary-General, which passed UN General Assembly Resolution 63/3 since 8 October 2008, and adopted on a proposal from the Republic of Serbia. By 17 April 2009, 35 countries submitted their written statements, which raised their legal views on issues raised by the UN General Assembly. Serbia's legal team, formed in line with the government's conclusions, voiced in October 2008 that Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence is not in line with international law. The authors of the submission on behalf of the Republic of Serbia were Prof. Malcolm Shaw, professor at Lester University in Great Britain, as one of the world's leading experts on the issue of self-determination rights, Professor Marcelo Cohen of the Institute of International Relations in Geneva, editor of a known collection of texts on the principle of territorial integrity in international law, Professor Andreas Cimmerman of the University of Berlin, as an expert on procedural issues before the International Court of Justice and Dr Vladimir Djeric, then president of the International Law Association of Serbia. The legal team co-ordinator was Sasa Obradovic, chief legal adviser to the foreign ministry, and in an oral debate, as head of the delegation, I was, as ambassador of the Republic of Serbia to Paris and as head of the Legal Team. The factical research was carried out by Igor Olujic, a lawyer from Belgrade, while at various stages the following experts from the area of international public law were consulted: Professor Mohammed Bedjaui, former International Court of Justice President and head of diplomacy Algiers, Prof. Dr. Vojin Dimitrijevic, Prof. Dr. Tibor Varadi, Prof. Andrej Noukamper, of the University of Amsterdam, Prof. Stevan Taumon, of the University of Oxford, Prof. Dr. Gašo Knezevic, Sanja Milinkovic and Bozidar Jovanovic, Head of the Department of International Legal Affairs at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Feodor Starcevic, head of the mission of the Republic of Serbia to the UN. I repeat, therefore, that the legal team of the Republic of Serbia, formed in accordance with the government's conclusion, has stated in its submission that Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence is not in line with international law for the following reasons: 1) the general principle of territorial integrity in international law prohibits the secession of parts of the territory of an independent state without its consent; 2) the international legal regime established by Security Council Resolution 1244 of 10 June 1999 guaranteeing the territorial integrity of Serbia and may be amended or suspended only by a decision of the Security Council, not a unilateral act; 3) the unilateral declaration of Kosovo's independence has been violated and the negotiation process aimed to determine the future status of this province. These views of the Republic of Serbia were supported by the following countries: Cyprus, China, Romania, Slovakia, the Russian Federation, Libya, Spain, Iran, Brazil, Argentina, Azerbaijan, Bolivia and Venezuela. The submission of the Republic of Serbia had 370 pages, with an additional 83 annexes, which contained written documents in favour of the above claims. A number of states have raised the opposite arguments by saying: 1) that the court should not answer the question asked because it is of a political nature, that is because there are important reasons why it is not in the interest of the UN to be held accountable; 2) that international law does not regulate the issue of secession, but that it falls within the discretionary law of the state, that the newly formed entity is recognised as a state; 3) that Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija have acquired the right to secession from the Republic of Serbia because of a massive violation of human rights in 1999, which is why this secession represents so-called. "sui generis" case and cannot be under the general rules of international law. The countries that expressed these views were: the Czech Republic, France, Switzerland, Albania, Austria, Germany, Finland, Poland, Luxembourg, Great Britain, USA, Estonia, Norway, the Netherlands, Slovenia, Japan, Ireland, Denmark, Maldives and Sierra Leone. At this stage of the process, Egypt also participated, but without a clear definition of the situation resulting from Kosovo's declaration of independence. In addition, the International Court of Justice also called on the authorities of the local self-government in Kosovo to make their written contribution to the process under the name "authors of the declaration", which they used until the end of the procedure. By July 17th 2009, 14 participants took advantage of the opportunity to refer written comments to other countries' statements. Among them were Serbia, which contributed its comment to 248 pages. From 1st to 11th December 2009, an oral debate took place in The Hague's Palace of Peace: Serbia, which took place first, then Argentina, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bolivia, Brazil, China, Cyprus, Spain, the Russian Federation, Romania, Venezuela and Vietnam, all the countries ahead supported Serbia's views, as well as Albania, Germany, Saudi Arabia, Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, Denmark, USA, Finland, France, Jordan, Norway, the Netherlands and Great Britain, which supported the author's views on the declaration from Pristina. The oral debate was attended by Burundi, but without a clear definition of one side or the other. In this way, the total number of countries participating in the procedure reached 42, which is the largest number of countries that have ever participated in a single procedure before the International Court of Justice. In December 2009, the Republika Srpska Legal Team answered specific questions asked by three judges in writing. On 28 May 2010, the term of office of Judge Shi Jiongu of China, who withdrew from the court council for illness. He was replaced by a new judge from the same country, who, however, had no right to participate in a more recent election and vote on the case, so the court council was brought down to 14 judges. Finally, on July 22nd, the International Court of Justice issued an advisory opinion in which: 1) unanimously decided to have the authority to act in this case; 2) with nine votes for and five against having to answer the question; 3) with 10 votes in favour and four against Kosovo's Declaration of Independence since 17 February 2008. In the light of this opinion, the court explicitly stated that the issue was treated in its narrow language terms, only dealing with the issue of the Declaration as a legal instrument, and not with the issues of the right to secession, nor with the legal consequences of such an act - such as issues, whether Kosovo gained statehood and what the status of the previous recognitions of Kosovo's independence (paragraph 51 of the advisory opinion on page 20).), returning, thus, an essential part of the asked question back to the UN General Assembly without an answer. In other words, the court deals exclusively with the question whether these types of declarations are prohibited by international law and Resolution 1244 on the relationship that the concrete declaration produced. Judges from Japan, Jordan, the United States, Germany, France, New Zealand, Great Britain, Mexico, Brazil and Somalia voted in favour of this compromise. They were against judges from the Russian Federation, Slovakia, Morocco and Sierra Leone. This outcome certainly represents a legal failure for the Republic of Serbia, as we have not received assistance from the International Court of Justice in a situation where international law has been violated to its detriment. Apparently, the court tried to find a way out of the unpleasant political situation he was in, and he didn't do it the right way. The advisory opinion, however, did not close the door for further foreign policy actions of the Republic of Serbia aimed at preserving its territorial integrity, as the court: 1) stressed that the UN General Assembly has broad authority to further discuss this issue; 2) affirmed the principle of territorial integrity as an important part of the international legal order; 3) found that in Kosovo, the international legal regime established by Resolution 1244; 4) did not confirm Kosovo's right to secede from the RS. In any case, only the conduct of this procedure before the International Court of Justice was of importance to the RS, as at a critical moment in 2008, stopped the wave of recognition of Kosovo's independence. The procedure before the International Court of Justice is over. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43546	I thank Mr Batakovic. I would like to inform the MPs that we will be working today until the hearing is over and after 1800 hours, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43547	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to report to the National Assembly on this process before the International Court of Justice and on what, in political and diplomatic terms, follows in the international arena. The problem of Kosovo is, of course, a problem with an extremely complex prehistory. In this address, however, I will concentrate on the period from when the Government of the Republic of Serbia assumed responsibility under the Constitution and the law. February 17th, 2008. In the year, the interim authorities in Pristina unilaterally declared secession from the Republic of Serbia. In the first few weeks after the declaration of independence, Kosovo has recognised about 50 countries of the world, including undoubtedly some of the strongest countries of today. The Republic of Serbia was ahead of the election at the moment. One way is to determine what is so-called. the fact that Kosovo has declared independence and is now independent, given that it has received such support from the world's largest states. It was one way to put the government under this problem. The second was to react in the way some sovereign states react at the time when they were threatened with territorial integrity, namely to defend their constitutional order with armed forces. For the third time, using legal, political and diplomatic means, it tries to oppose the unilateral declaration of secession by the provisional authorities in Pristina. The government of the Republic of Serbia has made a decision to choose this third time. Starting with the Constitution of Serbia, starting with the binding decisions of the National Assembly and the unquestionably political will of the vast majority of citizens of this country, we decided to invest all legal, political and diplomatic means in defending territorial integrity. Poor thing about the way we decided to put ourselves in the international, diplomatic and legal arena is to address the International Court of Justice. UN SMEs are the only international legal body in the world. If one of Serbia's arguments, which we are standing on today, was that international law and international law were violated, Kosovo Albanians had no right to secede from Serbia, that argument in a legal sense was not possible to defend against any other body but rather SMEs. There were several ways to access SMEs. The two mains were to ask for an advisory opinion. It was a different way to press charges, i.e. to directly sue countries before SMEs. The government of the Republic of Serbia has decided not to press charges against countries that have recognised Kosovo. For one simple reason, as seen in this new advisory opinion, that sovereign states have the right to sovereign decisions. Our assessment at that time was that, if we were to sue any country, the court would find itself incompetent and there would be no debate whether international law was violated. Of course, lawsuits against any country in the world also have political consequences. It is impossible to sue any country in the world without this lawsuit having no political effect in your bilateral and international relations at all. It was also one of the reasons why the government of the Republic of Serbia decided not to go to the lawsuit against one or more countries that recognised Kosovo as an independent state. Going to SMEs in terms of seeking an advisory opinion meant obtaining a majority in the UN General Assembly, the UN's highest body. Serbia managed to win most of the votes needed at the October 8th 2008 General Assembly, despite the fact that some of the world's most powerful states opposed the resolution in the debate before the General Assembly. Serbia's Resolution, which asked the International Court of Justice, was the unilaterally declared independence of Pristina's provisional institutions in line with international law? The details of the trial itself were already discussed by Prof. Dr. Dusan Bataković. I just want to say that the issue has been formulated in such a way, following broad consultations with international and domestic legal experts, because we felt that the opening of any other issue, i.e. asking any other question, would open a space for the declaration of Kosovo independence as a sui-generis case or by linking the right to secession with the threat of human rights in Kosovo and Metohija during the period until 2000. One of the important political aspects of going to the International Court of Justice was to curb the number of countries that recognised Kosovo as an independent state. The moment Serbia's resolution was adopted before the UN General Assembly of Kosovo recognised just over 50 countries in the world. From that moment until today, only 15, mostly smaller African or island countries, with the exception of Saudi Arabia, which was the only major country to recognise Kosovo after going to the International Court of Justice. The fact that this procedure is under way before the International Court of Justice was an extremely important argument for Serbia to convince countries around the world not to recognise Kosovo as an independent state. At that point, I'd say, we've had some success that's probably bigger than most people expected. Professor Batakovic spoke of the conclusion of our legal team, that the court practically left a political decision on the right to secession of Kosovo Albanians to debate in the UN General Assembly. What I'm trying to say is that the mechanism, provided for by the UN Charter of Procedure, is that every opinion of the court goes to debate at the General Assembly. The debate at the General Assembly will soon be scheduled after the court's already passed opinion at the New York General Secretariat is translated into all official UN languages. After that, the president of the General Assembly will schedule a date for the discussion. The custom in international relations, i.e. in the General Assembly, is that the country, which has initiated its resolution, is the one proposing the text of a conclusion to be held in the General Assembly. At this moment, the situation in the international community regarding the opinion of the International Court of Justice for our position is extremely difficult. The government's assessment is that at the moment 55 countries in the world are very close to recognising Kosovo as an independent state. At this point, the government is doing everything in its power to bring this number down to as little as possible, to send messages to the presidents of the states and the governments of those countries, with the content of a detailed knowledge of the judicial opinion, including an explanation of the court's opinion, which explicitly states that the court has not declared itself a right to secession and to show to the international community that if the text of the declaration is in accordance with international law, i.e. that it does not violate it, that if it was sent by a large number of recognitions, that means that any text of the declaration of independence in the world, if sent to some recognitions, can lead to de facto statehood, which, in our opinion, is not in accordance with international law and is not in the interest of peace and stability for both the region and the whole world. The government of the Republic of Serbia proposes a decision to the National Assembly. With the text of the motion decision you're familiar with, you have it in front of you. All I'm gonna say is the essence of this proposal. We propose that the current policy to preserve the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia be confirmed based on all previous decisions of the National Assembly on Kosovo and Metohija and to order the Government to use all available diplomatic and political resources available to sovereign states, UN member states in activities towards achieving that goal. The National Assembly, if adopted, would support the government in its view that it is necessary through peaceful negotiations to reach a lasting, sustainable and mutually acceptable solution for KIM, in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which will allow the historic reconciliation of the Serbian and Albanian people, as well as peace and stability of the region. If the decision was made, the National Assembly would support the government in the process of submitting a resolution to the UN General Assembly, whose adoption would pave the way for a compromise settlement for KIM through negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, our country and the democratically elected institutions of this country are currently ahead of the election – whether to continue the policy of strict respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of their own country and the use of all legal, political and diplomatic means to continue and fight. Our diplomatic activity at this point, until the General Assembly is maintained, will be directed at stopping further recognition of KIM to whatever extent it is possible. I repeat, at the moment 55 countries are in a situation where it is impossible to assume that they could soon change their position on Kosovo and recognise Kosovo as an independent state. The task of the state authorities will also be to achieve the majority in the General Assembly for the resolution of Serbia, which will pave the way for a compromise solution and after which it will be clear that the International Court of Justice did not give the Albanians the right to secede from Serbia. A policy that advocates the preservation of the country's sovereignty and territorial integrity, in our opinion, must be led by an event at the heart of Serbia's Constitution and events exist in this country of this institution, but also in this country a large majority who are not prepared to give up fighting for the protection of sovereignty and territorial integrity. This is without a doubt a difficult moment for Serbia, we need to maintain consistency, but also determination. Finally, as foreign minister, I would like to say that today the eyes of the world are against Serbia, against this assembly debate. This assembly debate is being broadcast directly on all channels in the country, but today there are also many diplomats and many news teams from abroad. Today, the world is watching Serbia's reaction, and which way Serbia decides to move on. I think it's crucial that we be unique, to be dignified and ultimately, regardless of the political arguments we're going to hear from all sides today and that we should hear, to come to a final conclusion with a unique view. The more unique we are, the more powerful a message we will send to the world to move on. That's it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43548	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I ask the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups who want a word, to sign up. Mr Cedomir Jovanovic is among the registered presidents of the least-known parliamentary group. We'll respect the usual principle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43549	Madam President, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, most of us have had the opportunity to participate in a very difficult assembly debate. It was a day after Kosovo's declaration of independence in February 2008. I think that weight, which then marked our debate, has not been reduced in these two years. She's, to our disappointment, because among other things, she's talking about our incompetence, only increased. That weight was at that time, and it shouldn't be hidden, first of all, from a great sense of injustice, because as a people, it's such a great loss. That session marked our willingness to, primarily, respect our emotions in our society, speak in a way that was not too political. On that day, only the heads of the parliamentary groups spoke, at the moment the President of the Republic spoke at the UN Security Council, the prime minister read the Resolution, we did not plead with it, most did. We did not answer for her, not because we did not agree with the description of the state in which the country is located, but because there was no idea in that initiative, there was no life. The majority considered it possible for a political system where life is not in parliament, and it is nurtured elsewhere. After that, we started defending Kosovo by destroying Belgrade and two years since then, Serbia's political scene seems very different, but the only constant in our lives is Kosovo. The first thing we cannot avoid is our personal disrespect for Kosovo. If we really care so much about Kosovo and Metohija, why are we treating this country in such a devastatingly rude way? We have a Committee on Kosovo and Metohija that has never once discussed the policy of the state that we led for the past two years. Only once did we open the debate on Kosovo here, two years ago, the resolution was withdrawn because there was no majority. The problem of the resolution on Kosovo was the fact that, on the one hand, the government had shown its intention to step out of this damn form that generations and generations inherited but, on the other hand, it was an obvious inability to do something like that. That's why today we can talk about Kosovo the way we've talked so far. I don't think this is a chance to talk about individual responsibility. It would be too vulgar to justify all Kosovo's problems with the wrong policy of one ministry or the wrong appearance of a government, the president of the Republic. What is obvious is that responsibility for the situation in which we are, if we are talking about Kosovo, exceeds the scope of not only our generation, but also the policy frameworks. That's why it takes a lot more responsibility here today in this debate. I don't know who in this room is who we can accuse of being responsible for Serbia and Kosovo's relations so that by defining his responsibility, these problems are solved, but there are many who are responsible for not telling our society the truth. If we love Kosovo, how can we defend it by lying to ourselves first and then the whole country? The weight of today's session is, in fact, in this trouble that follows us. We scheduled this session yesterday, and the government didn't even talk to us at a session that was held a few days ago, or, if she talked to us, did it in secret, because she didn't forward her decision to us as parliament. We won't get anywhere if we don't face the fact that we have to change something. In order to change that, we need to become conscious and personal. As a party, we took that responsibility. For five years in Serbia, we have been talking about the necessity of taking a completely different political course than what our country is on. For many things we have accused Vojislav Kostunica, but no one from our party has ever said that he is responsible because Kosovo today has its president, its prime minister, 22 EU countries that recognise him as an independent state and who knows how many from the world that will do so tomorrow. There is even less responsibility for that, Mr. Jeremiah, for the President of the Republic or for you. Of course, I mean the whole government. Life is so ruthless that already today it becomes a more significant answer to the question of why we hide the truth from ourselves, from the answer to the question of who is responsible for the fact that this truth is so tragic. There is no break in Serbia that has shown any understanding of what happened in Pristina in February 2008, for a decision by the Pristina parliament or by the author of a declaration of independence declaring Kosovo independence. The differences appear on the second plan, which defines our country's response to what we are facing, and Kosovo is a consequence and is not the first defeat of our society, but would like to be the first from which we have learned something. We realized that the government's initiative two years ago was a consequence, I don't know why you're not talking about it, first of all, the simple truth is that there is no government in the world that could have said so simply – I don't care what it was, it was, I won't fight for my rights. I don't know about any government in the world that's ever done something like that, but there are so many examples that won't let us fool ourselves into losing a life battle, and then find a solution to that defeat on some other plan, say, in the field of law. Mr. Batakovic is a historian. First, it is truly courageous of him to come to the congregation and identify himself with something that was undoubtedly seen as defeat and because of overheated expectations that followed the International Court of Justice’s statement. Everything that surrounds us, and this building, and the countries we've lived in, proves to us that we won't get anywhere if we try to minimize the defeats by avoiding the need to face their cause. We've been trying for 200 years to create our own country and we're not doing it. The terrible sacrifices this people have suffered. This country has suffered over the past 20 years of its efforts to define, protect and defend something that someone once mentioned and cited as her own interest. It would be nice, Mr. Jeremiah, if you were right to say that the whole world is looking at us. But I think the book's closed in The Hague and we're dealing with phenomenal things today. Today's news in the shift world is the director of British Petroleum, not the session of our Assembly. We respect ourselves so little, there's no reason for anyone else to respect us anymore. What we need to do today, firstly, is that those who rule, we are not, by the will of the citizens, who are also responsible for the state of the country, try to help, as we have done so far. No, we'll leave it to other parliamentary groups that at this point in the political sense they're having fun with the paradoxes that we first ask the court, and then we form a legal team, and then we talk about the results and plans when it's over, not at first and throughout the process. There is no room for that policy that Serbia needs. We need a new policy. We want to help you with that. We do not think that anyone from the government launched an initiative in front of the United Nations General Assembly with the desire to do Serbia harm, but the way Kosovo's policy was conducted over the past two years did so. One is an election campaign, especially in 2008. There may be parties, such as between some and ours, which deal with the causes of the election campaign. We have nothing against your message - both Kosovo and Europe, but we warn you that we are not far from a situation in which at least for our generation and Europe will not share the fate of Kosovo. We're too alone. No one understands us, and those who support us today do not do so because of understanding for us, but because of understanding themselves. Spain, Greece, Romania and Slovakia and all EU countries that have so far distanced themselves from recognising Kosovo's independence. How did we lose those who have been our traditional partners for generations, allies, those whom we built monuments here in Belgrade, those who have helped us most in the past 10 years? How does the world understand this Kosovo more as it is, than the Serbia we run? The answer is in politics. This world was built on the Atlantic Charter, and it was blackmailed, due to the weakness of one country and the domination of another. The French Revolution wasn't the source of justice either, and it formed our world. When we went to the International Court of Justice, we didn't go there to say two years later that we didn't like the answer to the question we asked ourselves? That's what you did, Mr. Jeremiah. I'm talking to you because you spoke as a proposing officer. The first point of the decision that we need to support speaks in fact of our conclusion that the International Court of Justice did not answer the fundamental question when giving an advisory opinion. Why didn't we set him up, Mr. Jeremiah? It's just that we haven't figured out what's going on with the International Court of Justice decision or we don't want to say what we know very well, and I think it's even worse. The second point - we confirm the policy so far. We're on a dead end. That's what the faces of all ministers here say, the atmosphere. Why are we confirming something that's obviously wrong? Can we talk about some other policy? At least let's say we talked, but we didn't find the answer. When's that gonna happen? What kind of magneticism keeps Serbia on that course? Serbs in Kosovo do not ask us to do so. Several of them participated in the elections for local self-government organised by Kosovo authorities since the elections we organised. Third point of the decision – unity between politics and the state. We cannot agree to this unity. I cannot agree to the unity of the President of the Republic and the President of the Republic I took to prison, who was tried in The Hague for crimes. What kind of unity is that? We heard very well what the first Deputy Prime Minister said, that we would not get anywhere if we asked a question of responsibility, one government, another government, third, to the Battle of Kosovo. No, half of the '80s, 1987, 1989, amendments to the Constitution, legal violence, and all the consequences of our inability to democratisation the state, to change it. Then what we do in Kosovo, someone does to us tomorrow in Serbia. What we do in Bosnia, someone does in Serbia. What we do in Croatia, someone does in Serbia. There's no unity on those grounds. We can make unity about what needs to be done in Serbia. It is not your obligation to defend what has been permanently lost since 1999, and Serbia's right as state to manage life in Kosovo has been permanently lost. Serbia's right to care for Serbs in Kosovo, its monasteries, its property, to establish normal relations with Kosovo, and no right to recognise Kosovo as a state has been imposed anywhere. Why do we mention in this decision that we will never do anything? Who's asking us to do this? No one has ever asked Serbia to do that. The National Assembly expressed support for the government in the process of submitting the resolution to the General Assembly. What's this resolution? Why can't we see her? Will we make a turn in that resolution and look before the UN Assembly for support, for example, in the EU for what we intend to do in Kosovo? Are we going to change our priorities or are we going to ignore the fact that we're fighting for something that's long gone? There were fewer believers in Kosovo's application days ago than in a protest outside the Patriarchy when one of Kosovo's bishops was replaced. The question of responsibility must also be asked, but not with the ambition to find the on-call culprit, but on the contrary, to open up a space to question every man in this country. Millions were silent in front of what's been happening around us for years and on our behalf, and then these millions are facing the price they're going to pay sooner or later. Later, if led by politicians, parliament and governments who have no courage and strength to tell the truth to society. That truth is not a message – forget Serbs in Kosovo, it is true – find us a new way for your place in Kosovo, with those who live there. If it is difficult, if it is humiliating, you suffer humiliations in the name of those generations that have humiliated others in order to achieve that policy. Because we have given ourselves this exclusive right not to be us who will be responsible for what is the real loss of Kosovo. Where did we get this right? We're a generation that needs to be dealt with. If we don't have the strength to solve it, we will be a generation that will realize that it has destroyed a nation. That's why it's very important for us to question the resolution that you're going to the UN with. You have now spoken very pervasively of some countries and countries that have recognised Kosovo's independence in the meantime. I wouldn't remind you of the standoffs of our policy on the international scene, the fact that we, the country created on the street in demonstrations, were silent in front of violence against civil protests, because the country applying violence at the same time shows an understanding of our Kosovo policy. I suggest you be different here in parliament this time, even if we finish this session with dignity when we start it in an unacceptable way. This basically means that you define priorities that will enable the democratisation of the country, its modernisation, economic development, partnership with the world, and through this partnership to understand the world for those of our particular interests that we should not forget, but which we have to accomplish in another way. (President: Time. ) Of course, if there were no dilemmas, we do not support this resolution because it is the expression of continuity with the wrong policy, absolute support for every ambition to change something concrete, because we consider this to be the last moment for something like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43550	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. You wanted to, go ahead. The word has been made by Minister Vuk Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43551	I would just like to answer a few questions very briefly asked by Mr Jovanovic. At the very beginning of this debate, I want to say that I accept full responsibility for the results of foreign policy over the past two years. It would be politically and humanely unfair to try to hide behind any authority, personal or institutional, and since I have full confidence in the democratic institutions of this country, if they do not conclude that Serbia's foreign policy is about Kosovo or anything else was wrong, that it could have been otherwise or better, I am prepared to submit all the personal consequences of such a conclusion. I will answer your question directly – which is why we have not asked another question to the International Court of Justice. We didn't post it because we estimated that any other formulation would open up the court's space of conclusion that would lead us to an even greater and more serious danger. I already said that in my presentation. Any other formulation would open up space to conclude that Kosovo's declaration of independence is a Sui Genis case, and at that moment there would really be nothing more than an obstacle to any country in the world to recognise Kosovo. As for the finding that this is the moment that we need a new policy, including a new policy on Kosovo, I urge you to propose it. Maybe this is a good time to have a debate about it. Therefore, suggest a new policy on Kosovo, but make sure that you are wrong when you say that none of us are asking us to recognise Kosovo. When it comes to regional organisations, Kosovo requires full membership. When spoken in the OSCE, Kosovo requires full membership. The application for full membership of Kosovo has already been submitted and is voted by consensus. Tell me, Mr Jovanovic, whether Serbia should put its vote in favour of Kosovo's membership as an equal entity to Serbia in such an organisation. You're talking about normalizing relationships. This country has indeed done much to ensure that regional co-operation, even regional co-operation between Serbs and Albanians, in the context of the policy we have defined, is not stopped. That's what we showed. But it is not only an act of recognition of Kosovo's recognition of Kosovo. You have many things that may have an indirect character, but that have a direct effect of recognition. Take any regional initiative, Kosovo is not a member of it. Kosovo wants to become its member. Kosovo cannot become its member without Serbia's vote. Are you ready to give that vote to Serbia, making sure that the moment you gave the vote no longer exists any reason for anyone in the world, after you de facto did so, not to recognise Kosovo as an independent state. So this is an extremely complicated and complex situation. I agree that we need to have a debate right now. I'd really like to hear suggestions for a different, new foreign policy. I'm ready to hear, of course, and any criticism. Just one more thing, I've never talked about any country in the world in a pesoriatic way, if I've gotten the impression that I've talked about small countries that have recognised Kosovo since Serbia's resolution was voted in the General Assembly, I want to underline that I haven't spoken at any moment, nor do I want to speak in a pessimistic manner about any sovereign member state of the UN. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43552	Mr. Jovanovic, the reporting base? Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43553	Mr. Minister, you really have an incredible ability to hear what no one else has heard. On the contrary, I think it's banal after all to ask and then open here a dilemma about what would have been asked if another question had been asked. The moment we reached the stage where we practically chose the question to hear the answer that suits us, clearly our policy was defeated. For years, we've been proposing a different policy. Every assembly debate was marked by our resolution, and this is the first one we didn't want to do something like that, because we don't see the possibility of influence without the willingness to open up space for our initiatives. I suggest you go to Brussels and agree with the EU as soon as possible the text of the resolution to be submitted to the UN General Assembly. In that resolution, to defend Serbia's right not to change its stance on Kosovo, and on the other hand, to open up more perspectives for the life of Serbs in Kosovo who are tragic hostages and our inability and inability to do something concrete on the political path we are moving. If you're talking about your personal responsibility, I don't think I can comment on it. The issue of responsibility that we want to put beyond and the frameworks of your ministry and your government and our policy. This country is threatened because many in it, besides politicians, were very irresponsible. Until a system is created in which, at the values of that society that we want to see around us, our future will grow, the question of responsibility will be individualized, so as not to question the cause of the situation in which we are today. This, I repeat, is not an opportunity for us to lower the debate to the level at which it is common in parliament, but I am merely warning that you are the first time as a minister in the Assembly with this agenda point and that it speaks of your relationship with parliament, not our relationship with Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43554	Ambassador Slobodan Samardzic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43555	Dear People's MPs, members of the government, the President of the Republic, since this ruling majority and this government took over the country's helm, and this has been around 25 months, this is the first time the Assembly has discussed Kosovo's subject, and that they have initiated it. There have been some attempts by different people. My predecessor made such a mistake that some resolution of the Assembly had never been discussed, nor was it on the Parliament's agenda, one debate was held all day in December 2008, when the opposition had to undertake the Constitution to launch a debate on Kosovo, so members of 130th and the opening of a debate on non-trust with the government. In addition, the opposition tried to easily smuggle this topic through this home, calling for Article 235, so by asking for information and information, then calling for a parliamentary question both here and there, thanks to these business opportunities, the Assembly discussed Kosovo. Otherwise, within 25 months of the topic, as for the government and the ruling majority, it was not on the agenda. Now we have one completely reverse situation, we have a congregation called after 25 months by the ruling majority, i.e. Government. A man would say at first sight that this is indeed one salto of the government's policy towards Kosovo, that it finally includes the Assembly after 25 months and that, now that it is working in the Assembly, a democratic debate, a cultural exchange of views and a proposal would come up with some common or, as is said here, a single policy on Kosovo. When you look at yourself a little bit, this isn't a salto mortal, this is one rational choice of government. It is simply in trouble and in an extortion to call on this assembly, for the simple reason that its Kosovo and Metohija policies have suffered defeat. We heard from the head of the legal team that she suffered a legal defeat, and I think that defeat is much wider, that defeat is politically comprehensive, total defeat, if I may say so. Now in such a situation, the Assembly should talk about Kosovo. The MPs need to make clear what was going on, to give their attributes for further action, to accept a motion for a decision and that the matter, after this day, flows as it has so far. This is really not acceptable, since the assembly did not have the opportunity to bear responsibility for politics towards Kosovo, because it did not ask, at least when it comes to the government or the ruling majority. She simply, as I said, had to look for some side-by-side and auxiliary channels to discuss the matter, which you yourself claim to be the most important in Serbia's state affairs, something public. But why wasn't the Assembly invited to talk about Kosovo earlier? Why were MPs not consulted when certain moves were made in the follow-up of government policy on Kosovo and Metohija? It's simply because the policy, mostly, was led in a mysterious way, in a way full of some secret moves that the public had been informed about. I'll give you some examples of this claim. For example, the debate at the Security Council at the end of November 2008, when EULEX was accepted by Serbia, was a debate on the arrival of EULEX. Thanks to Serbia's approval, Eulex came to Serbia. So, one mission that is the product of Marty Ahtisaari's comprehensive plan. In public, there was a six-point programme, which was a condition for our government to join EULEX in Kosovo, but the assembly did not discuss it. It just wasn't on the agenda. Perhaps you would hear and learn an opinion that would benefit you in that policy. Perhaps an even more drastic example is the signing of an agreement with Eulex on police co-operation. The agreement was signed in November 2009 and I would remind you that this agreement, which is for this country an international and legal act, has never been published in "The Official Messenger of Serbia". When we were able to comment on that whole story about the Agreement, we had to wrap ourselves up and look for some other channels of that text. That text, of course, was finally received and one daily newspaper published it. Whether he's authentic or not, I can't say, because he's not in the Official Messenger, but no one has denied our criticism of that agreement. In that agreement, there is one definition or one term for border in English, which is the official language of interpretation and application of the agreement, where the term limit in international legal terms is used, at least in English. Our country has signed such an agreement with Eulex and has accepted that the border is in some sense, at least in language, internationally legal. This is the mysterious Arctic policy I'm talking about, and that's why the Assembly didn't discuss Kosovo. Therefore, it is not a salto mortal, you have to call this congregation to this legal defeat, and I say, wider than legal, you have to include this congregation as well. It's not possible to accept it from the DSS MPs' club. I don't think it should be on the side of the Assembly either, because it's an authentic, independent, top democratic representative body of this country. We had a policy in one period of over two years that produced strange results and in which the Assembly was not involved or the general public in any competent way. Finally, this initiative to seek the opinion of the International Court of Justice has passed without debate in this assembly. That initiative is not at least what, it's one important thing, really. If you remember, while she was the previous government, we had a conversation about what to do. We then had a joint legal team and one party, the one who proposed to return the mandate to the people, gave a different proposal than asking for an opinion. It was a proposal to initiate a lawsuit against one or a group of states. It's a dilemma that the Assembly was supposed to discuss when, when you made your own government, you decided to raise such a question. So again, one initiative that has been promoted in public opinion through various marketing and spinning masters, where there have been a lot of optimism, is now completely empty, if we quote the head of the legal team, that this is a legal failure, full of optimism that Serbia has achieved one great result, since the General Assembly has mostly approved that the request be forwarded to the International Court of Justice. That was a lot of moves. When we look at our situation in Kosovo and Metohija for all that time, so on the ground, in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, the government, more or less, led the thing routinely, slowly leaving this field of struggle, and focusing and focusing solely on what it said, diplomatically and legally. This is discussed by the reduced 2009 and 2010 budget for Kosovo and Metohija, then cancelling or abolishing the temporary ban on the work of municipalities founded on the basis of the May 2008 elections, then silently allowing Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija living south of Ibra to participate in Albanian elections for local authorities, one silently leaving them to Pristina, if that is so said, etc. All the while the world was being shown that we were fighting hard for Kosovo and Metohija, when our local public kept showing that the activities of diplomacy were very large and heavy, which is not controversial, during which time the struggle on the ground was being abandoned and, in fact, the most important thing for foreign participants in Kosovo and Metohija and other international participants was that it was a matter of some secondary importance for this country. You know, it's much more important, at least it seems to me, that you show on a permanent ground that you have a firm policy and that you do not give up on your institutions, from the institutions of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija, that you do not give up on what the Constitution guarantees you and which are neither international participants in Kosovo nor Metohija, but this diplomatic and legal struggle. Although, I say, diplomatic and legal struggle is extremely important. Now we've come into a situation to discuss the motion for a decision, to, therefore, engage in your initiative after 25 months, and to speak unsuspectingly and constructively about the thing that we all care about, therefore, both the ruling majority and the opposition. At least I tried to illustrate through several examples how the government really ran politics around Kosovo and Kosovo. Now I'm just going to concentrate on this initiative of yours, on this motion for a decision. In fact, this proposal for a decision is about the fact that, regardless of the legal defeat or failure, to be precise in quoting, the government is going the same way. Right? We have several points where we should actually accept the continuation of the same policy, which goes to the General Assembly, with the requirement that this legal opinion be magically translated into a different political conclusion now. You know what, the General Assembly's relationship to the International Court of Justice is hardly so illogical that the General Assembly will now, after all, carry out the opposite or the opposite political conclusion. That's one of your goals. That is, therefore, extremely unrealistic that this can be expected now, and this was supported by arguments and by the foreign minister today, when he said 55 countries are there somewhere to accept Kosovo's independence. If so, why are you entering such a great risk that after this legal failure you experience a political failure, we experience one political failure, but it is Serbia, it is not just you as a ruling structure. It seems, therefore, quite, so to speak, irrationally and suicidally, I mean politically suicidal. So go back to the UN body, the most important, whose judicial body is the International Court of Justice, who gave a practically negative opinion on our issue or on the intensity of our issue and that it will now be politically disabling such an important authority. That assessment is very bad, it seems to me in principle, and it is particularly bad, if you will, for a reason, and I have no reason to believe that it is not, this one that the minister has led here that 55 countries are at the threshold of recognition. What will we do if the General Assembly rejects our motion for a resolution and accepts another resolution? That's very likely. I don't think there are any scenarios after that, but I'm afraid that's exactly the scenario, to show this public that all the funds have been used and that actually Kosovo and Metohija's policy can't be led differently, that all the resources have been exhausted and that this is the one end that we, whether we want to or not, have to face as the strongest political and historical fact. I'm saying that and it looks like it's a scenario, even though I can't prove it, I can't claim 100% that's exactly what you're doing. But if you order, then this is an unintentioned coincidence of your policy. You'll hardly do anything at the General Assembly. So your motion for a decision is now dragging the Assembly into a suicidal action, if you had done it before, if you had called the Assembly before to discuss your initiatives, very likely that the Assembly would have discussed it one way or another, it would have been a live debate, but you would have heard a lot of suggestions, so you might as well want to correct our policy. I say, maybe. In any case, the Assembly would be responsible for politics because it led the debate. Now it's hard after 25 months, even though you want it. It's simply impossible, I'm not saying that this assembly won't vote most of the time, but that's another question, not this one I'm talking about. In fact, it's interesting that at point 2 of your motion decision you focus your action now on the diplomatic and political field, right? You say diplomatic and political means. Your phraseology to the International Court of Justice's opinion was diplomatic and legal means, you didn't mention politically. The question is, did you give up the legal means? Do you think there is no more maneuvering legal space to do anything? That's the main question now. Of course, you gave up because you firmly decided to go to the political consequences of this legal opinion. Legal opinion is negative, unfavourable, that's what you said yourself, that's what we all see, more or less are reactions like that. Whether a negative legal opinion can create a positive political consensus, it's a really big question, a book with seven seals. I warn you to take a very high risk. When I mentioned this legal side of the problem, my question is actually – why did the state or government not then accept the strongest remedy in the fight for the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija in front of the International Court of Justice: why did it not sue one or more states? This is now an important question because these are two different things compared to asking for an opinion. Namely, it's, under number one, a much stronger remedy. So it's not a formal legal act, it's a political act that shows you're willing to use the strongest remedy, not the weakest, because it's the biggest problem. Secondly, with such a request, you would not, therefore, allow the International Court of Justice the maneuvering space of manipulation that he used on this issue of yours. He really, as you say, twisted the answer to the question and answered it in a way that is really more linguistic than legal. In fact, if one state is sued, then the topic is exactly what you were talking about today, that territorial integrity and sovereignty is the main issue. So, the court could not avoid a debate as to whether the state if the defendant violated the basic principle of international law, which is the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the state. Then, such an opinion, excuse me, the decision or judgment is binding, if it were to be said, rather than optional, i.e. non-binding, as is the case with this opinion. Finally, the question is whether the court would find itself incompetent, which, as far as I can see, is your predictive argument, it's not, especially today, the question. You have also lost on this matter, therefore, to seek opinion, so why are we now dealing with whether the court would find itself incompetent? It is more a chance to declare himself competent than not competent, if the court acts according to the modern trends of international law, rather than the old ones that were in force before 1946, before the UN Charter, when the declarative recognition theory was prevailing. Today it is no longer the case in the world, and the court would indeed be in a position or trouble, if you will, to plead against our suit. It is, therefore, what was possible and in accordance with this closure of this exhibit of mine. In fact, this motion for a decision cannot be accepted, I only say that on behalf of the DSS Parliament Club, for the reasons I have stated, but since it is an important matter for this country, we will, of course, make a proposal on what needs to be done. Therefore, it is necessary to put an ad act on this proposal, to bring the National Assembly back together, to form a working group and to make a proposal for a decision in accordance with this initiative, to initiate a lawsuit procedure for one of the states or more states that have recognised this open issue and to bring this National Assembly together at the earliest possible time, and it does not take much time for such a proposal to be brought forward, to be called up and to discuss it. Only that would the National Assembly itself (President: Time). ), as a representative body of Serbian citizens, has led to the position of actively leading this policy and bringing itself out of this passive position, which was pushed by the Serbian government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43556	Among the representatives and presidents of the parliamentary groups, first Mr Dragan Markovic, Tomislav Nikolic, Susana Grubjesic, Dragan Todorovic, and that order will have a word. Mr. Secretary first has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43557	I just want to brief Mr Samardzic on the subject of the lawsuit. I repeat, the undivided opinion of all the legal experts we have consulted during this process was that the International Court of Justice would be declared incompetent. We have experience in this regard, by declaring the International Court of Justice in some previous processes in which the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia participated, and the legal assessment, and the political assessment is such, that the court would very likely find itself incompetent. I want to tell you even if that's not the case, or even if the court finds itself competent, which, I repeat, is unlikely, is still the court that made this decision. Please, I want to be perfectly clear. I fully respect and, I think that this country, like any other UN member state, must have a lot of respect for SMEs, whatever decisions it has made, which we may not like, is our duty as members of the UN. But I do not believe that a court that has decided to avoid a plea on this essential issue would do the same if Serbia sued a country that has recognised Kosovo. If the court didn't want to answer the point, at this point, it would be even more difficult, most likely, to answer in an explicit lawsuit against a state. From what I understand, your proposal to change the state policy on the KiM is only to launch a lawsuit and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43558	Mr. Samardzic, replica, right? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43559	Dear People's MPs, dear ministers, say something like that today when we've lost on this thing, at the request of opinion, it seems highly inconclusive. I'll tell you right away, even if you're right and the court finds yourself incompetent, that's less damage than what we've got, the opinion that this whole declaration is not in breach of international law. It's a minor shame. Now that you mention your previous analysis with the legal experts, I must tell you that things stand here, at the very least, charming. Some are for, some are against it. I'll remind you, he mentioned the head of the Legal Team, Marcel Cohen, who was on your Legal Team, that at the time we had a joint legal team, he was very specific to the lawsuit. At the time, Thomas Linner, a legal adviser to the negotiating team, was specifically for the service. There are several recent opinions on this, at a time when these things were discussed and the rules of testing were in front of international lawyers about it, and Professor Brown was in favour of the lawsuit. Then Chris Borgen, an international law expert in the United States, has been talking lately about the lawsuit being filed. There are other opinions, such as Jules Bergion, etc. There are opinions divided, but the thing is that the state is going on stronger rather than weaker move, because it is more politically convincing. If he loses even in a weaker way, then you can't argue that you pulled harder to lose. What you're saying is, to declare yourself incompetent, it's much better than when there's been a legal failure, as he chose to say today to the head of the Legal Team. It's just one aspect of this thing. That's what I was talking about as part of the motion for a decision. What the DSS can do is make a proposal for another decision. That's what I was saying. In fact, my broader argument concerns your policy towards Kosovo since you came to power, in the last 25 months. She was completely weak, especially in the field. You can run whatever diplomatic action you want, if you don't have support on the ground, if you can't see that you're holding your institutions with teeth and nails on the ground, they're not convincing yours in diplomatic action. Although you've been relatively convincing, I must say, but you'd be more convincing if internal policy had been conducted differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43560	The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43561	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable ministers, Mr. Prime Minister, I couldn't agree with the fact that this government said this was a victory or defeat. This is neither victory nor defeat, but this government did not give auto goals when it comes to the KIM problem. Previous speakers, Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic said he did not want to follow continuity. Continuity has been thought of by the government since 2008, Mr Jovanovic, and no one can dispute that for the first time since 2000, it happened in 2008 that this government and the state of the Republic of Serbia have sent something to the UN General Assembly, and that the UN General Assembly accepts it. There's 192 lands out there. Ten judges voted against violations of international law in the declaration of KIM independence. Does this give us the right to continue to fight diplomatically, how do we convince those who have not recognised KIM independence so far that Kosovo is an integral part of Serbia? To ask the UN General Assembly and the Security Council - is Resolution 1244 still in force? Yes, it is. Does Resolution 1244 make Kosovo an integral part of Serbia? Yes, it is. Can we ask ourselves and others – did someone from this government say one thing when it comes to the electoral body in Serbia and the other when it goes to Europe? No, it wasn't, which wasn't the case of years ago. Let's ask -- did Serbian President Boris Tadic once, whether it's a topic or not, when large international gatherings spoke -- Serbia will never recognise KIM's independence? Let's see this man in Serbia who won't support it. Did Vuk Jeremic ever say at major UN meetings and general assembly – Serbia will never recognise KIM and that the state of the Republic of Serbia will never accept blackmail to join the EU to recognise the independence of KIM. That's the continuity we need to continue. I don't want us to go back today, and today I don't want to criticize those who were in power until 2008, but I want Prime Minister Cvetkovic to lead Serbian citizens, President Tadic, ministers, to lead Serbian citizens to Europe, not to lead me to church after the declaration of independence of KIM, to pray to God that God will undo the decision on the independence of KIM and send Ban Ki Mun, to the then high-ranking official, that decision. You ladies and gentlemen can deal with this issue today, because this issue is about the emotions of Serbian citizens. Just when emotional issues are on the political scene, that's how you get votes directly and you think that's how you're going to profit politically. But you won't. Why? Here's another fact -- there have been 30 municipalities of emergency elections in Serbia for the past two years. Did most of this government win those elections? Yes, it is. Whether we can tell KIM that those Serbs living on KIM are the only competent ones who can say whether this government works well or not. Yes, they also said the SPS-JS Parliament Club and PUPS, our coalition partner, we won several KIM municipalities. Is it true that at several public gatherings, where the fate of KIM was at stake, Vuk Jeremic left those gatherings because the board was only Kosovo, not Umnik Kosovo? Is it true that President Tadic did the same? A large number of you then criticized him – you see, the wrong policy etc. Did Ivica Dacic, Deputy Prime Minister, also leave the meeting in Brussels where the board of Kosovo was, not Umnik Kosovo? Yes, it is. What should we blame them for doing this? No, we can't blame them. Should this government's policy be in this direction that the representatives of the big states come, to talk to them, to fight diplomatically? Did we have a war? We did. Someone says -- it wasn't the Parliament talking, it wasn't the resolution. So how many resolutions did this congregation bring from 2000 to 2010 today? Has anyone from the international community ever discussed these resolutions? No, it's not. Now this government, headed by the president of Serbia, is on its way and we cannot stop. The only thing I can hate about Mr. Tadic is that he doesn't speak at all the meetings, besides everything he says to inform the citizens, that he has no extraordinary choices. The elections are in 2012, and by then we have to bring foreign investors into Serbia. Is it true that Mr Tadic did not go to Croatia, to a quarreled country with Serbia, when it was an inauguration of the president of Croatia? Yes, it is. Did they criticize him? Yes, they are. The same president of Croatia realised that Serbia was right, later called on President Tadic to go to Croatia and that Croatian president came to Serbia. We'll never forget what happened, but we have to cooperate. I will not agree either as the president of the JS, nor as a member of the SPS-PUPS-JS coalition, nor as someone who helped build this government, to say when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija doing bad work. What do we need to do next? Of course, what the government suggested, to support continuity, to talk. The Hague tribunal, I have said this many times, is a court of politics, not a court of justice and justice when it comes to Serbia. So what did you expect? That they're gonna make a different decision and we're gonna sit on our hands? No, we have done what is the limit of our power. At that moment and today, the indications that The Hague is liberating war criminals, as he did with Haradinaj, and now to make amends, the moment one big decision is made, takes Haradinaj to The Hague to continue his trial. Is it true that Naser Oric, a war criminal, was sentenced for two years and released? Yes, it is. What do we have to do now? Is it the continuity of politics to burn the embassies? Someone said -- the Assembly did not discuss the previous position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We didn't even discuss whether we were going to fire the embassy. Who allowed you to burn the embassies, fight us with the whole world? On whose behalf are you doing this and in what did you do it? This congregation must agree on all key issues. Let me, they wanted me to give consent or not to Tadic or the government, they have constitutional powers. They cannot sign something that separates Kosovo from Serbia, because Kosovo is an integral part of Serbia under the Constitution. They can't do that. There is Resolution 1244, which also says Kosovo is an integral part of Serbia. Finally, since we agreed to use the rest of the time, to ask you to support the government of the Republic of Serbia, President Tadic, and not to argue today. If you want to criticize still and watch the whole world watch us Serbs fight, I'll remind you of some more time, what someone's been doing in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43562	Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43563	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd just like to respond instead of you to the previous presentation and ask people who don't believe in God not to criticize us who believe in God. There are many citizens of Serbia who have gone to church these days to at least try to fulfill what their old people have assured them that God's justice is the highest possible justice, that God's justice should be earned and that God should be feared. Today is the day when state responsible people resign to move Serbia forward. If you don't understand those who are in power, the people understand. Today is not about fighting between us in the National Assembly. Today is neither about amnesty nor about attacks. I'd like the Prime Minister to request an emergency session to ask the National Assembly for an opinion on whether what he's been doing so far is right and not whether what he did to the International Court of Justice is right. You assured us that it was our last defense, so that Minister Jeremic, while speaking in front of the court building in The Hague, would hear that decision not matter much. I quote, "This decision doesn't matter much. "Why have we waited so long for her? What were we looking for? If it's negative, it doesn't matter. If she were positive, she'd be important. Here I hear we've asked for unilaterally declared independence to be an act contrary to international law. The International Court of Justice said it was not opposed to international law. We got what we were looking for. Now we all have to suffer for it, and everything in Serbia will change except for the government, except for the responsible people. We all feel ashamed, humiliated, defeated, only the government goes on. Only the government proposes a decision to interpret the opinion of the International Court of Justice. Only the government proposes a decision to support her in everything she's done so far. I'm sorry, who needs to back up? Whoever depends on this government, back it up. Whoever spent the people's money while this government is in power, hold on. Whoever was involved with her in the marifettes, let him endure. Do you ask the citizens of Serbia – can they stand it? What did you do most wrong? When you thought the world was Serbia, so it's on the media enough to talk about how we increased the employment rate, how we got out of the crisis, how we handled the crime. As you have spoken to the world, we are absolutely right. It's just not a RTS medium seen in the world, it's some other media. Today we are where we are. You say – legal failure for Serbia. This is a failure for Serbia, not a legal failure. No one to say - yes, it's my fault. I convinced you, my dear citizens, a year ago that we would win. I heard the President of the Republic two days before he gave his opinion that he was expecting a positive opinion for us. I wish he had said it. I hope so. I thought the President of the Republic knew what he was expecting, because those are statements he's not playing with. We got a negative opinion and immediately went on the media to find out what was wrong with that opinion. Please allow me to speak at least once in this congregation. When you let them bite while I'm gone, don't at least now that I'm here. This is, I think, much more serious than defeating some ideas. This is Serbia's defeat. As long as I'm in it and I have to cover myself with ears, I'm asking you to bear your share of responsibility, not act like this session has yet to pass. You know very well that we need at least 180, 190 votes for something we send to the world. I don't want to discuss your responsibility at all today. I had to at first, because it's a session for us. I don't want to write in that decision who's responsible, because it's for us again, but I want this decision not to challenge people to make decisions against us again. We're not the strongest in the world, we're not the best, we're not the most righteous, but we're not the most guilty. I've been listening here to representatives of various governments since 2000, and you've been racing to prove what government has fatally done wrong. They've been making a fatal mistake since 2001, when you got out of Kosovo and Metohija, when you weren't interested in it at all, when the resolution didn't interest you. Today, the International Court of Justice says no resolution has been hit, neither has the constitutional frameworks for Kosovo and Metohija been hit. Don't act like it didn't happen. Let's at least today, if we can make some decision, as many as we are here – 250, and who won't, let's say that Serbia will do everything to ensure that the situation doesn't change until the final decision in Kosovo and Metohija at all, that in no village, there is no worse in any house, that there is no change in domination, especially in four municipalities in northern Kosovo and Metohija. Let's at least swear something here and define ourselves, not attack each other and gossip. I could attack all of you here, although I have responsibility for what the party I was in in 2000. We're punished for that. You know, Serbian citizens punish those who don't think about Kosovo and Metohija. They may be scared, you may not see it, but the next election will lose the one who doesn't care about Kosovo and Metohija. We don't have children for war. The war idea is no longer in circulation in Serbia, unless, I repeat, if the security situation in Kosovo and Metohija changed dramatically, if someone attacked Serbs, if someone attacked northern Kosovo and Metohija, as a man, and the party did not discuss it, I approve of all the funds the government would use in that defence, and you now think that you are ready to defend or not. Don't brag about fighting with the whole world, because you've been attacking these fights in your own time. Don't argue with the big ones who have confessed to independence. Make sure we pave the way for the big ones who haven't recognised their independence. We may have a year or two of difficult lives in Serbia because the great forces have recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence, we may be referred to ourselves and friends in the world. Open up those roads, don't talk about shuttle diplomacy, it's gone down, Mr. Jeremic and Mr. Tadic. You have abolished the importance of diplomatic representatives. You were on a plane to defend the idea. You're now saying you're sending 55 letters, 55 emissaries, as if we don't have ambassadors in those states. Who represents us in these embassies, the people who have contributed to the idea of DOS? Someone could drink the most, someone could write the worst article against the former government, someone like this, someone like that. Where are the diplomats? What are the names of diplomats in Serbian diplomacy? I even see the secretary of the ministry sitting here. I guess you can see the significance that the secretary of the ministry has, and it has enormous significance and all the diplomats know it. It's up to him and his head to the diplomats. You killed Serbian diplomacy, you brought it down to two people, who say in Serbia that we are right, that we will defend everything, that we have great support. I watch the day after day as you return from the world and speak. The state has not yet accepted it. He won't even admit it. When did you bring word that you had reversed the thinking of a state that had recognised independence? What were we doing for a year and a few days, convincing Spain not to confess, Slovakia, Romania? Of course they won't admit it. It is not up to them to have their fate, it is not up to them to join the EU, none of it depends on them, they lead their country as they think they should lead it. You're talking about other countries having problems. I don't care what movement in the world will declare independence. Why do Serbs in Republika Srpska not declare independence? Have you taught them to take this court decision and that a group of citizens declare independence, to see what happens? What if two municipalities declare independence in southern Serbia? What happens if this Turkish Islamic centre declares independence of the Rasca area? Why don't you look in your backyard, what's your interest in other people's street? What else is going to happen to us? What good will happen to us? Let's talk about it as people who have both children and grandchildren, and who have to get married, some here are neither married nor married. Why don't you think about it that way in Serbia? Who's going to vote yes, who's going to vote against, like it's going to change something, like we haven't all made decisions with 200 votes in. It is known who will jump out, but some who were in power while we were in opposition that we also voted for their resolutions, although they did not bring anything new to the defence of Kosovo. When it comes to Kosovo, there is no authority or opposition here. But show that there is no authority of the opposition, show that you are as responsible as we are. This is a failed idea. What more will you do in power, for money, for a chair, for what? When the idea fails, some new authority comes with a new idea, asks the people which idea should be changed now, and the people say: You mixed ideas, you made the government of a party whose president said "we will fight with weapons for Kosovo and Metohija", a government that said it would not fight after the fight. Did you deceive us after you formed the government? Yes, it is. None of us knew how you would fight for Kosovo and Metohija. Today, it's easy to speak all diplomatically, and now political means begin. Is this maybe a war? War is a political tool. It was – legal and diplomatic means, today they are diplomatic and, as you say. Are you thinking about it? I think you're thinking very well and you wrote this very wisely. First of all, we're giving you amnesty for everything you've done, a map blast. We support all decisions, all governments, everything they've done so far. Then why are you attacking each other? Both of you are supported by the Assembly today, when you vote, but we support and advance everything you do. Then what do we do for you? Otto von Kelraiter said, "What is there to do between the people and the president of the assembly?" I don't mean Mr. Tadic. He was wrong in the first year of his term, when he thought he could do it all on his own. Now he realizes he can't. He's not too late. Anyone can come to their senses and come to their senses. Why do you need a National Assembly that doesn't know what you've decided to write in the world? Why do you need a National Assembly you haven't met with the contents of the acts? What are we here to do, tie our eyes and just tell us which button is being pressed, because it's Serbia? It is Serbia, but it is for you and for us, and everyone should suffer the consequences, not just those who are not in power. Some ministers are missing, they're probably opening up new jobs. You're on the campaign, gentlemen. And today when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, you're in the campaign, getting ready for the election. At least tell us when the election will be. Maybe we can cook something too. To sit here with you, to wait for the moment when we will vote, and you know very well that whoever thinks of the state will not vote against what is said in the media to defend Kosovo and Metohija, without knowing what we are voting for, that we do not know why we vote, that we do not know who will represent us there, that we do not know why some people who seem to have openly told you that this opinion should not be asked in that form, do not expect us to. I repeat, the Serbian Progressive Party is not the problem of any government that cares about the state, Kosovo and Metohija in particular. We're an opposition party, and that's how we behave, but you won't hear us anywhere, or see us, or any agent will be able to let you know that we don't want to help you carry out this battle all the way. I just think you're incapable of that battle. I think they know you very well, that your psychological profile has been recorded, that they know how far they can go with you and go to the last border. I can't imagine you want to defend Kim and piss off Russia and America, to piss off Germany. I can't imagine that. I don't know who you're relying on. Half the government is preventing any form of co-operation with the Russian Federation. One day, the entire government was in conflict with America. One of the ministers who spends most of the state's money is in conflict with Germany. He drove the German investors out of Serbia. What exactly are you defending? The naked trenches. There are no people behind you. You're the one who bought it and you want to defend your positions, your current situation. It can't be put up with. You are silent of objecting that more Albanians go to Serbian elections than Serbs to KIM. You all keep your mouth shut, like that's true. You're silent ministers. Shut up, KIM Minister. He doesn't care. How can you stand it? To tell you that there were more Albanians in the KIM Serbian elections than Serbs in order to make you feel it? That's not true? Who's to say it's not true? My grandmother? Ladies and gentlemen, Serbia has to move forward and we're going to get out as much of a fight as we did in this room. This resolution will bring some of us together most likely, some of us will separate aside, some will claim that they were right, so that nothing should be done now, some will never come into the situation to decide whether they are right or wrong, but never forget that Serbia should go forward with us tomorrow, of course, at the head. Only with us can we move forward. Remember that Serbia must move forward, not look back, that Serbia must defend its interests at KIM. Don't swear we won't admit independence at all. Well, we can't do that under the Constitution. We could be stuck on long-term prisons if we were to confess without changing the Constitution. Don't swear we won't drive in the red light at all, it doesn't allow us the law. Do not swear at all what has already been regulated by our positive legislation. Come on, swear that we will unite in what is our common goal. I wish the Prime Minister, absent probably for years, had invited us to consult before this session and that we had tried to put together a common text. I wish we hadn't gotten out of this room apart, to get out of here aware that we did something we could. We have made amendments to you, and from that we have drawn up a text on what this decision should look like. Please take them seriously. The decisions of the International Court of Justice, they are not given an opinion here. You won't even get an opinion on them at the UN General Assembly, they're not interpreted. We are not the call of the National Assembly to give an opinion on the decision of the International Court of Justice. This may remain in legal analysis for legal experts to comment on, but we as the National Assembly should not interfere. We're not ready to vote just like that and say you were right, and you'll probably be right, only we'll lose Kim. In that sense are our amendments. We haven't even touched your basic concept, we haven't even used harsh words, we're not even sharp words. And we're worried, and we realize it's not going right. We're aware that there's not much more to be done in this situation. Serbian citizens know that, too. I repeat, in 2000, they punished a government that did not fight enough for KIM, leaving them, although bombed and attacked as non-democratic, left Serbia's citizens with Resolution 1244. Since then, for ten years, democratic power, a co-worker of all things, has lost Resolution 1244, because the International Court of Justice has said that this decision on the declaration of independence is not opposed to Resolution 1244. Think carefully, whom it is to pray, it is not to anger him, but every humiliation has its limits.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43564	National MP Susana Grubjesic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43565	Dear fellow ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers and president, as Professor Batakovic said in the introduction, since autumn 2008, the International Court of Justice has studied whether the Kosovo Assembly declaration of independence is in accordance with international law. The epilogue of that almost two-year study we heard Thursday July 22nd. The declaration does not violate international law. We here in the National Assembly have annulled the Kosovo declaration only a day after it was taken into the Kosovo Assembly and thus confirmed a decision by the Government of the Republic of Serbia that annuls all acts and actions that are declared unilaterally independent by the Interim Authorities of Self-Government in Kosovo. The International Court of Justice's view, regardless of all language and legal acrobatics, is unfavourable for Serbia. The statement at the end of the one-and-a-half-hour presentation confirms it. Ten to four in favour of the position that Kosovo's declaration of unilateral declaration of independence is not contrary to international law. It is true that the Court did not answer the fundamental question of the legality of the right to secession of Kosovo Albanians, but that also does not mean that the Court's opinion does not matter. I don't remember any of the officials of the Republic of Serbia saying that this opinion will have no effect on Serbia's international position. On the other hand, it's neither a decision nor a verdict, but an opinion. The court's opinion does not oblige the UN General Assembly either. It is not said anywhere that Albanians were right when they brought the Declaration of Independence, but the opinion of the International Court of Justice kidnapped KIM or took away our right to continue the political and diplomatic struggle to preserve the country's territorial integrity and sovereignty. It reminded us all that international law is a changing category, that the expression of consensus is powerful and that very often it is defeated by politics. The court did not go to seek answers to some key questions that many of us have learned at social colleges, which is what is stronger and what is more important, whether the right of the people to self-determination or the right of the state to defend integrity, but this opinion can also become an excuse and encouragement to all those in various parts of the world fighting for secession. No matter how hard some try to present it, Kosovo is not a unique case, but just a precedent. There is nothing unique about the case of Kosovo. The question that arises is what next and what do we do? Are we in a position to conduct a responsible political debate here in the National Assembly? Can we get out of our party trenches and answer the question honestly: how much do we care about KIM in the first place? Not only as territory, but as much as we're interested in people who, despite everything, have stayed to live on KIM. What can we offer them besides various paroles and various party attitudes? It has been 11 years since NATO and the UN put Kosovo and Metohija under their control. During that time, they failed to create from Kosovo a multiethnic society or establish a rule of law. Kosovo and Metohija live in a majority population that has learned generations to see a blood enemy in Serbian authorities, and to view Serbs as a foreign element, which should be evicted as soon as possible. A similar situation is with the relationship between Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija towards Albanians. Clearly, the model of cohabitation here is not applicable in the immediate future. It is clear that, apart from requests for symbolic sovereignty, we must pave the way for new solutions. That path should lead to the ultimate goal, which is to achieve a historic compromise and reconciliation between the Serbian and Albanian people. The International Court of Justice's advisory opinion does not oblige the General Assembly and therefore the efforts to seek opinion in the General Assembly, i.e. to seek a solution acceptable to Serbia, are fully justified. We simply don't have the right and we didn't get a mandate from the citizens to give up this acceptable solution. We are also aware of our strength, both our position and our strategic commitment to European integration, today we need to express our support and give the government the authority to submit a resolution to the United Nations General Assembly and make all diplomatic and political efforts to adopt this resolution, to open the way to seeking compromise, because the compromise is in the politics of victory, not defeat. What would that be, a compromise? Any solution that Serbia neither explicitly nor implicitly recognises Kosovo and Metohija's independence. But to get to that solution, we need allies, not just any one, but the strongest. We also need the European Union and we need the United States. Without their support, we'll just stay away from the desired compromise solution. As we do not have the right to raise our hands, to give up the diplomatic fight for Kosovo and Metohija, we also have no right to give up partnership and co-operation with the European Union. With the consent of the European Union, we could come to results in favour of the interests of both Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija, as well as the states of Serbia. It is actually a policy that has led my G17 plus party to join the European Serbia coalition, and due to the continuation of this policy, we will support this decision today.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43566	National MP Dragan Todorovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43567	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I have to express my protest over the way this decision was proposed, but nothing new about this ruling majority. In the last two years, this has simply been their manners. They act on principle to take or leave – they want only to satisfy the form, but they are not interested in the essence, because if they were interested they would resort to the simplest and most reasonable way to try to obtain general unity in the Republic of Serbia's Assembly when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. If they had gone and sent these proposals in time, if the MP groups had had the opportunity to make a statement about this document, I suppose that, with some reasonable acceptance of certain well-meaning suggestions, a lot of things would have been better than they are today. That's how it is, we've learned about it in these last two years. After all, during this ruling majority parliament of the Serbian Parliament, so to speak, was suffocated. Here on stage is the brutal dictatorship and the gazing and the law and the Rules of Procedure. But what's there is. We will look back on this decision. Among other things, the Serbian Radical Party has submitted several amendments that we think would greatly improve the text of this decision. What first falls into your eyes when you look at this decision, you see that there is no call for Resolution 1244. This is a serious concern for us and we are asking ourselves – what does it expect us to do, given some hints that, in collaboration with the European Union, we should write a resolution to the United Nations, etc., what awaits us, because in this decision, I repeat, there is not a single sentence or call for Resolution 1244? We, among other things, have submitted an amendment to delete the government's decisions on the 5th preamble to the proposal for a decision "as well as the government's decisions on those decisions". In this decision, the National Assembly holds its position on its decisions and resolutions, not on government decisions. In addition, the government did not seek the previous consent of the National Assembly for its decisions, and in the preamble it cannot contain a call for another authority’s decision. We also submitted an amendment to point 4. The motion for a decision to change and to read -- "The National Assembly believes it is necessary for a peaceful path to come to a lasting, sustainable and practical solution for Kosovo and Metohija, in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which will enable the peace and stability of this region." We have deleted this part of which calls for the historic reconciliation of the Serbian and Albanian people. We didn't fight, and that's not what we're supposed to call on. We need to work in accordance with the Constitution, with our law and Resolution 1244. As well as the amendment to point six. The motion for a decision is deleted. He is related to a previous amendment that will explain Mr. Zoran Krasic, because if accepted, then Article 6 would be completely pointless. Now let's go back to where we started or where we came from. Some ten years between 1990 and 2000 and 2010. Same period, different modes of operation, different results. In 2000, the former state waited for Kosovo and Metohija with Resolution 1244. Unfortunately, we don't have that former state anymore. You remember the Belgrade Agreement, then the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, and then the adoption of a referendum that had been condemned in advance to failure, i.e. the possibility that Montenegro would come out of the state community. Well, today we have welcomed after ten years as you or as you still like to say, democratic authorities, we have welcomed the advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice in The Hague, which not directly, but based on what has been said, accepts the practical independence of Kosovo and Metohija, and this will be a big problem for us. But how could you expect it to be different? Did you, which brought America and the EU to power in 2000, think you would lead politics? You were wrong. You're puppets. You've been brought here to take orders and act like one. There's no dilemma. Here, Boris Tadic, I assume, in his statement that he will tell representatives of the Republika Srpska Assembly what Joseph Biden told him in the conversation. Is it true that he told him that Serbia would be in great trouble if it did anything when it comes to the International Court's opinion? Catherine Ashton, too, in the same tone. Steven Wardsworth, the ambassador of England to Serbia, was very precise, said Kosovo and the EU are no longer on two tracks. What to expect from those friends of yours you've been calling for. What to expect in general from the Assembly, which was submitted in 2008 to a motion for a resolution signed by 108 MPs, and the resolution referred to the already assumed possibility of accepting Mission Eulex. She's not scheduled until today. If it's not a brutal violation of the Rules of Procedure, then what is it? For what? Because you wanted the Assembly not to make such a resolution to accept the Eulex. You are now grasping your head because Eulex is a mission formed under the plan of Martti Ahtisaari, a mission that should, and which is doing so, form the institutions of that new state of Kosovo and Metohija. What's your six-point deal with Eulex? How's it coming true? As EULEX thinks it should be achieved, so every day it reduces Serbia's powers, that KIM keeps as far away from Serbia as possible. There's no dilemma. What did she do? a status neutral mission, which you claimed would help improve the quality of life on KIM? How could you expect someone to respect Serbia in any way when you do not respect it? Do you think the return of ambassadors to countries that have recognised KIM was an act that was meant to show Serbia's power or Serbia's respect for itself, towards its territory? No, you made it very clear that you would accept everything, but not right away. It is important for you to wash yourselves in front of our domestic public opinion and that KIM slowly leaves Serbia a little bit each day. You promoted your policy in the diplomatic plan for Kosovo and Metohija, and you threw all the cards at the UN Resolution requesting the International Court of Justice's opinion in The Hague whether the recognition of KIM is in accordance with international law. The Serbian Radical Party has warned you that this is an extremely risky move, that it can be painted on the head, because there are conditions in international law, that is, possibilities when parts of a particular territory can declare that independence. That wasn't enough for you. You insisted on this, believing that a path that has no alternative, a road to the EU, will allow you to achieve possibly some successes on the domestic plan and that Serbian citizens will easily swallow the departure of KIM. You're saying that all 69 states have confessed to KIM. Now you announce about 57. I don't need all 57, Minister. You know, 192 countries in the UN, 87 are the majority and what kind of resolution you can expect to bring to the UN that would be useful to Serbia. You had two pillars first, one that had no alternative, America, then four pillars - America, the EU, Russia and China. From these two pillars, namely Russia and China, you didn't really ask for any real help at all when you needed it and when it could have been significant. One of those moments was making a decision to accept Mission Eulex, because you accepted that it was not discussed in the Security Council because you were sure that at your invitation both Russia and China would veto that decision and that mission would not be today. That's why you avoided it, that's why we have Mission Eulex, and that's why KIM is further than it was before. I remind you that everything that's going on isn't by any chance, it has its own trail. In 2009, we brought the Statute of Vojvodina and thus hit the cornerstone of the future federal unit in Serbia. After all, Andreas Cobel told you precisely – Serbia in 912 did not enter these borders at which it is today, so we have to take care of it. Do you believe that the EU and America will leave us alone? Do you think America is interested in whether Kosovo is a unique case or not? They don't care at all. They have such situations everywhere for pressure only, even if those who have such a problem make them accept the current situation, believing it is only an exceptional case concerning Kosovo and Metohija. Do you see what's happening slowly in Raska? I guess for the past 20 years, you could see in some way how it slowly moves and as it ends, making it clear that Serbia has nothing to expect. Serbia can simply expect further pressure from America and the EU for concessions they have outlined and will not give up on. The problem is, we avoid doing what's in our national interest. What is in our national and national interest is still to be determined by the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but you will not simply do so. You want to impose your view of politics at any cost, and here you see for the 10 years we've arrived. The president of the Republic said a few days ago that Serbia is not interested in joining the EU after 2020. It is already a serious suspicion that Serbia can enter the EU for the next 10 years and many are announcing it as true, there is no dilemma. Some even extend it to a much longer period. The question arises whether the EU will be at all by that time. It also raises the question whether Serbia will be, and whether Serbia will be Belgrade's pasaluk. What the SRS thinks we should do right now is something that you're slowly coming up with, and that's co-operation with Russia, China, India and other countries that are in a position not to be pressured by the United States. You had the opportunity to see a Chinese delegation here ten days ago and see the results of that visit, and that objectively speaking to us is one of the best exits – strengthening co-operation with Russia and China. It is one of the roads that guarantees Serbia the opportunity to reduce the pressures it has been putting up with all the time. What you want in the EU is one thing, but the EU's leading countries don't want Serbia, or not this kind of Serbia in the EU. Perhaps, when they bring it down to Belgrade's pasture, they will agree to Serbia's entry into the EU, but this is not the kind of Serbia that the EU wants. What we also think needs to be done quickly, it is to examine all possibilities of co-operation and accession to the ODKP organisation, as it is an organisation recognised in the UN, guarantees collective security. I think that Serbia in this situation has no better way out than through some processes slowly, in accordance with its interests, to look at opportunities and to approach this organisation. We are aware of the fact that we have an American Bondsteel base on KIM, which serves to keep Serbia in subjection. What's also at our disposal is that we think clearly and if we understand it, and I think it's very close to the moment when it's going to happen, that Americans definitely want to kidnap KIM, to think about the situation and the situation in which Serbia is or part of Serbia. I think it is necessary to declare the occupation of the work of Serbia's territory by NATO, because NATO occupied Serbia in 1999. They didn't enter the UN, NATO entered, and that's where it works. It works by kidnapping KIM, and in a situation where a state is under occupation, no acts can be internationally recognised and will eventually have to return to its original state. What we also have left, that the next resolution that you intend to send to the UN General Assembly, is that you are looking for respect for Resolution 1244, and it is taxing, everything that the UN has committed to. If we've fulfilled everything, why don't they meet their obligations? Why should everything apply to us and not to them? And finally, to really send peace forces to KIM, and in doing so, what is inevitable, we need to ask that the Eulex mission leave KIM, because it has shown by its past action that it acts against Serbia's interest, acts against the interests of citizens of Serbia, citizens of KIM, and if we take part in these steps (President: Time, Mr Todorovic). There's a chance we can improve our position. Take the time between 1990 and 2000, which we waited for 2000, and take what we waited for in 2010, I don't think the conclusion is difficult at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43568	Mr. Minister, you have the word Minister Vuk Jeremic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43569	Thank you, Madam President. I want to answer a few questions asked by Mr Nikolic and Mr Todorovic. You can't ask in the General Assembly's resolution to meet the Security Council resolution. By procedure and by UN Charter, resolutions discussed in the Security Council cannot be discussed in the General Assembly and vice versa. There's a so-called. A Chinese wall in a legal sense between resolutions that can be discussed in one and the other body of this organisation. When it comes to the content of the resolution that will be submitted, it is very difficult to discuss it here in the open, in front of the cameras, because it is a matter of diplomatic strategy that is not revealed because there are some other parties, interested in this process, who have their own strategy regarding the General Assembly, and if in this way we were to discuss the contents of the resolution itself, the very text of the resolution, I think we would do ourselves a great bear service, simply sending a signal to some parties that are not friendly in this situation and who would simply discover that path. What's most important is to make it clear what we want to achieve in this resolution. This resolution aims to achieve a compromise solution for Kosovo's future status through new negotiations. But what is also important is that this resolution practically serves as a shield against new recognitions of Kosovo and the Metohija after such an attitude. Kosovo has recognised 69 countries in the world, of which I said, only fifteen after the process was launched before the International Court of Justice. I can say that the fact that the trial was conducted before the International Court of Justice was a kind of shield, not a completely impermeable shield, but a pretty good shield for new recognitions of KIM. We need a new shield. We need a new document that, when adopted, will help our argument to third countries not to recognise Kosovo until negotiations are reached with a mutually acceptable solution and therefore the adoption of this resolution is very important for Serbia. I agree that it will be very difficult to adopt the majority. That is why it is very important to make sure that at the highest level, as many countries as possible are seriously talking and that the current appeal is made to them not to change their stance on Kosovo. Mr. Nikolic asked – why are ambassadors not doing this? Mr. Nikolic, we are a small country and ambassadors of small countries very rarely come to be accepted at a high level where political decisions are made in foreign countries. When a country is under pressure to recognise Kosovo, so does the foreign minister of some large and influential countries directly to the president of the republic or the foreign minister of the country. You cannot at the ambassador level, or at some relatively low level in the country's foreign ministry, convince him not to give in under pressure to recognise Kosovo. As a result, the envoys are now extremely important. That is why it is important for them to be admitted to as high as possible, and this will happen because the direct message of our country's president to the president of the other country and they will indeed be received at a high level. That message is very clear. We address, as a country, another country, asking them not to recognise Kosovo under these circumstances and to support the start of negotiations through which a compromise solution would be reached. That's what Serbia is looking for. We ask, in other words, other countries not to recognise Kosovo. The higher the level of envoys, the higher they will be admitted. I think it's really important here today, I've already said, to show, perhaps not in the debate, but to show in the end one seriousness and state unity on this matter. I think it would be an extraordinary gesture if we could count on support from the opposition. I think that SNS plays an extremely important role, as the main opposition party, and you, Mr. Nikolic, would make an extraordinary envoy. You are someone who has a high position in this country, and as head of the main opposition party, if you would take a letter to a country with a request not to recognise Kosovo and if you actively engage in attempts to prevent the recognition of Kosovo, this would give this a serious weight. But I'm not just thinking about the president of the main opposition party, I mean the representatives of all parties. Please think about it. If the presidents of all parties in Serbia, including opposition parties, would agree to help the government at this time, if we would accept that we would show the community, take a joint message to these countries, ask them not to recognise Kosovo, ask for support in the General Assembly, ask for a compromise solution, then we would indeed send the world a serious message that we are unique as a state. On the side of all political differences, but the message is clear and we would be extremely grateful if you would help us at this point in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43570	Replica, Mr Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43571	Mr. Minister, if you know everything as you know the relationship in the Serbian Parliament, then I am not surprised at this situation that we have come to when it comes to the International Court's opinion in The Hague. What's problematic, Mr. Minister, is you're asking that what you're doing, you're doing in secret, because apparently, the public would be the one that would bother you to achieve successes that you haven't achieved so far. Tell me, Mr. Minister, in the past two years when you've been talking to anyone about the policy you're running? You took her undercover and you came here where you came from. Now that we're asking that position to be improved as much as possible, you're asking again to lead in secret. With who? With the EU, which asks you to write a joint resolution. For what? Will the EU resolution be resolutely behind the view that KIM is part of Serbia? Will the Ministers? It's no problem, and then why don't they say it in public? Here, we publicly call on the EU to plead on KIM and publicly demand that all processes towards the EU be terminated until the KIM is declared. I don't understand you. I absolutely don't understand you. You say you stopped the recognition of KIM and all 69 states confessed. Well, now it only takes 30 more to admit and they have a majority, and you're going to have 52 envoys to stop it, because 52 were announcing the other day, and today you say 57. So, another five states have announced, perhaps, the possibility that they might recognise KIM's independence. Mr. Minister, you and your government no longer have a map of the blast from the Parliament to run any secret policy and any secret negotiations. In the Serbian Parliament, we want representatives of parliamentary parties to say what they think Serbia should do in the coming period. If we let you go, it'll be nothing from Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43572	The hope of Kolundji, the People's Messenger. Here, you have a word. (Kedomir Jovanovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry, the replica first. Mr Tomislav Nikolic, a replica, but you'll have to... Who reported in to the Rules of Procedure? Nobody. Mr Tomislav Nikolic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43573	Mr. Jeremiah, here's the public...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43574	I'm sorry, I'm gonna have to delete it, because your applications don't come to the monitor, so first Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic picks up his phone by the Rules of Procedure and takes precedence.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43575	Madam President, I am advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, which is to be bound by Minister Jeremic. It is really unacceptable for him to run some topics beyond the document that has been forwarded to us. The fact that you're impressed with Tomislav Nikolic is your business. He may be your personal envoy, I don't know if he will, but we're talking about a very important document here today. If that document goes down to the level of your personal obsession, then it's an insult to all of us. Excuse me, we are very responsible here in this congregation. When did we refuse to help solve Kosovo's problem? I remind you that in point 4 of the decision you have passed on to us, in fact, you have found that we believe it is necessary through peaceful negotiations to come to a lasting, sustainable and mutually acceptable solution for KIM. Tell us, what is the suggestion of your solution for KiM, so that we should be in line for the postmen? What solution is that, Mr. Jeremiah? We talked about it when it was debated here about Ahtisaari's 2007 plan. Twice during 2007, at the end of 2007, what solution is that? More than autonomy, less than independence -- it's been rejected. Is that a division of Kosovo? Tell me which one. Don't talk here in parliament, but you won't tell us, because you have some argument and a card that's still in the sphere of some secret diplomacy. Today, the EU is meeting. It formulates its policy after the SME decision. We as the Serbian Parliament will decide that you will continue as usual. You can't tell us what it is, but we need to stand behind you. That's offensive. We've been sitting here for three hours listening. After two years of silence, three of us now sit and listen, so that at the end of the epilogue, someone can help. We want to help. The first step is to want to tell Serbia the truth. When we tell the truth, let's see if the envoys can be the ones who brought us into this phase. Those who are calling for Resolution 1244 and who have lost half the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43576	Time. It's been two minutes. Mr Tomislav Nikolic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43577	Unlike the predecessors, I think showing respect for what the SNS does is not an embarrassment. I think your sense of respect for that policy is perfectly correct. It's better for us to be some kind of envoy than for those who have been fascinated by various criminal groups in their own time. Now I publicly promise you... (President: Mr. Nikolic, I would ask you to compare the vocabulary to the content of Parliament and the subject. I mean that gang that you used to call it, and what would you call it now, I don't know. I accept now publicly, and you know very well that among many countries in the world there are supporters of SNS-led policies, many of them have not recognised independence, many of them are now in a dilemma, I accept publicly that the state of Serbia is sending me to convince these countries to wait a little longer, how long it takes us to assess that we are still able to fight. I don't consider it a task that you give me, because I certainly couldn't get a mission from you, nor could you from me. I think 250 of us, there are certainly people of honor in certain states. I think of many of the opposition and the prominent people of the ruling majority. I just resent that our diplomats have fallen to the level that they can't deliver a message from the President of the Republic. It doesn't matter who's bringing the message, it matters who it's from. If you tell me now that an ambassador in one country can't make it to high ground, bearing a message from the President of the Republic, what's the name of that emissary carrying the message of the President of the Republic, then he'll come to high ground. Why isn't this emissary an ambassador? Why aren't we the best people abroad? What do drunks and all kinds of people represent? And you know it very well. Why didn't you shake off those debts that DOS imposed on you back in 2000? Otherwise, here are 220,000 members of the SNS to choose whoever you want to help publicly Serbia, it will help.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43578	Mr. Minister, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43579	Thank you, Madam President. I really didn't want to insult anyone, I apologize if I did. I apologize in advance for my lack of detailed knowledge of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. To be clear here, I have not talked here about any public diplomacy, any secret plans for Kosovo, any secret actions that Serbian diplomacy or any state body would take. I was only talking about the concrete content of the resolution that Serbia should submit to the UN, which has become a public document since the time of its submission. I'm just telling you right now about the time between today and the moment of the resolution, what exactly is it going to say. The moment that resolution is submitted, the whole world is available. I'm not talking about any secret activities or any secret ideas at all. I am extremely grateful to Mr Nikolic for his public response, but I must say that we would be extremely happy if other opposition leaders, above all Mr Jovanovic agreed to be an envoy, because the message has nothing to do with the future status of Kosovo. The message is very simple. The message is only – do not recognise Kosovo. That's not what you're talking about, what it's like and where it's come from, and there's no telling what's gonna come after it. There is only one message – the Republic of Serbia is asking, asking you not to recognise Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence. As Mr. Nikolic has a great reputation in some countries, Mr. Jovanovic also has a reputation in some other countries and he would be useful to this common matter. I really cannot believe that anyone here in the National Assembly cares about at least another recognition of Kosovo and Metohija. So, I apologize if I pleaded the way I just spoke to Mr. Nikolic. I spoke to all the opposition champions in parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43580	Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43581	Mr. Minister, you still need to take care of the consequences of your appearance in parliament. Although I disagree with you in terms of the importance of this session, everything we're saying is being followed. Where did you come up with the idea that as an envoy of this country's politics you would suggest a man who was news when he went to Brussels?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43582	The People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43583	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, members of the Government, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are talking about a topic that is important not only for this government, but it has been important for the previous governments, and I think unfortunately this topic will remain an important topic perhaps for future generations. This topic is important because decades, and even more than a century, this has been a question that clearly Serbia has not found an adequate answer for many decades. What this government faced was a terribly tight space after all the failed policies. In that tight space, we could choose between fatalist decisions, as previously made, and define ourselves for Kosovo or death, or we could respect the interests of Serbian citizens who said -- no, we want this government to represent Serbia's interests regarding KIM, but we also want to represent the interests of citizens when it comes to its European perspective. Here was the question of the legitimacy of the policy that has been led over the past two years. The legitimacy of this policy is unequivocally stemming from the RS Constitution, the resolution that this assembly has brought, as well as the government's exposé, in which it has been unequivocally found that the government will continue to fight for territorial integrity and continue to fight diplomatic, legal and political means. When this government was elected, we chose it among other things and because citizens chose us on the platform that she said - we will not give up fighting for KIM, but we will also not give up on our European integration, because that is what half the majority of Serbian citizens recognise as their own interest. When the government took moves first of all, it had binding provisions and our resolutions, and the Constitution of the RS and what it had laid down before the MPs here as a programme to stand up for. Then the question arises – what means can we choose in this fight? There is absolutely no dispute that nobody in this assembly, and I believe even among the citizens of Serbia, is absolutely questioning the definition of funds that involve international law, international diplomacy and political resources. So, no one will ever think again, I think for the future, that some of the funds that have been implemented should be applied and which unfortunately have yielded devastating results, not only by KIM, but also by the citizens of Serbia. When we chose peaceful and diplomatic means, then the question arises – what tools will we use in a specific case? Of all the things that could be heard in this debate today and in all the discussions so far, there were clearly only two possibilities. One of them is to sue some countries that have recognised the unilaterally declared independence of KIM, and another was to address international institutions to find a place to continue their own diplomatic and political struggle, seeking protection of international law and international legal order. The arguments that arise when it comes to lawsuits against some countries have a number of weaknesses. One of these weaknesses is that it puts Serbia in a confrontational position with countries in its environment, in the EU, countries in the world. Confronting Serbia's position has led to catastrophic results in some earlier periods. The consequences of confrontation with individual countries, international institutions, with countries of the world, have led Serbia to tragic years of heavy isolation and ultimately to the bombing in 1999, and finally to what is the only foothold of each of our policies, which is Resolution 1244. The truth is, that act is not unequivocal either. The truth is, as some say in this parliament, that in 1999, Serbia lost Kosovo, so do some countries in the world. On the other hand, we too are right to believe that this is the only international legal framework that gives us the opportunity to fight for the preservation of territorial integrity. The idea of suing other countries would greatly compromise our other strategic goal. Although there are those who believe that Serbia should turn to some other countries, far-reaching destinations, to look for advisers on other continents, not only because Serbian citizens believe and think that the EU is a natural environment for Serbia and not only that it is a natural environment, but that it is the interest and need of Serbian citizens, the lawsuit would lead us to a huge risk of jeopardising that Serbian citizens' ambition. It would put us at risk to turn Serbia from the only path that involves not only economic interest and a better life for the citizens, but above all the transformation of our society, which implies that from a legally unregulated country, from a time of dictatorship, a single-party system, we will arrange the country as a democratic one, in which the rule of law will be what all the values of society are based, in a country where we will respect human rights and there is now a special issue when it comes to KIM. The question of the human rights of citizens living on KIM is the question this government is dealing with and I believe it must intensify its work. So what I'm saying is that when we think about whether we had any other moves, if we had any stronger arguments, if we could take a move that might have been a bad position to get into this fight, except that we didn't hear from anyone that there was this good move, we of all those with whom this government was talking, we didn't hear that there was a better move. So I think it's of particular importance for us to show a few things today. So, to show that there is awareness and responsibility in this assembly that the fight for Kosovo is not easy and that this fight will not last even this year, perhaps not just next year, that when we say the continuity of the fight, then first of all we think about the Constitution and what the Constitution obliges us to do. So we can change tactics and resources in that fight, but when we say what is the continuity of this fight, then that means that Serbia cannot stop fighting for territorial integrity and cannot give up its legitimate rights in Kosovo and Metohija. I call on all MPs, regardless of the criticism they need, sometimes they have an argument, to instruct the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to show awareness that we know what this session today means, that we know that if the Serbian government has unequivocal support for parliament, it has a better position in further efforts to preserve constitutional order. If it has the support of the majority, not only the parliamentary majority, but opposition parties, then its argument will be stronger in front of the international institution. That is why I call you once again, there is nothing in this decision that is not acceptable, this decision obliges the Government and obliges us to respect the Constitution, this decision gives support to the government to continue fighting for territorial integrity before international institutions, and I really ask all MPs to choose to support this decision in the day of voting, because it will only truly show that Kosovo and Metohija are not just a political topic on which they want to get some political point.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43584	According to the Rules of Procedure, Slobodan Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43585	Since there was talk here about things I was talking about and I was misread, I'm looking for a member of the 101st replica. Namely, this what a colleague...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43586	No, you have no right to a replica. Let me just tell you why. Because after the speaker who said the contents relating to you or your text, then you can. However, Mrs. Kolundjia, I followed closely, she didn't say anything about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43587	She was talking about the lawsuit. I was the only one who spoke, and she misread my words.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43588	No, you have no right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43589	Thank you very much. The word has the first Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Mr Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43590	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President-in-Office of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, President of the Republic, Prime Minister, I think the topic we are talking about today is just seemingly related to Kosovo. The theme we're talking about today is certainly important and it's all about the strategy where and where as a country we're going and I think it's a fundamental question that we sometimes close our eyes around here today. This advisory opinion by the International Court of Justice, on the one hand, does not mean that the International Court of Justice is always just, but on the other hand, does not mean that anyone can and is allowed to react. This is one different political reality from the one we had until last week. Anyone who thinks otherwise, I think they've got their eyes closed deep in front of the problem we're facing. Also, I don't think a consensus will be reached today. It was never in Serbia's history, so I don't know why today would be. After all, if there were consensus in Serbia's history, we might not even be discussing this issue today. I want to put it completely open here, the International Court of Justice's opinion is based on the wrong interpretation of Resolution 1244. The preamble to Resolution 1244, which was also discussed in this home in 99, states it once again confirms the territorial integrity of the then state of SRJ. Then how can this resolution be the basis for declaring any and any independence of any part of the SRJ then? Resolution 1244, which was declared by the Serbian parliament, which was voted by SPS MPs and, I think, by the then opposition to the SPS, was brought as a peace agreement, practically. Resolution 1244, that is, what was then called, both the Military-Kumanian Agreement and the Ahtisaari Plan, etc., were the conditions under which the war was interrupted. Do you think anyone in Serbia would then vote in favour of that resolution if it had left the possibility that after 10 years someone on it would declare independence? So it is absolutely incorrect that Resolution 1244 provides any basis for Kosovo's declaration of independence. Speaking of peace agreements, how would the international community react if Republika Srpska unilaterally declared independence, which one can later assess as not contrary to international law? Or how the international community would react if northern Kosovo now declared independence from the so-called. Independent Kosovo countries? But we're talking in theory here. Political reality is different. And so I want to remind all the MPs that we are chosen here to lead this people, not to lead them looking back or down. Domanovic's time has passed. So anyone who talks about the new policy today, I agree, although I thought that the new policy came after 2000, because you won that policy in 2000 by the then President Slobodan Milosevic, but obviously it took 10 years to establish some kind of interpolitical policy and to come up with some new policy. I think we should be aware of the political reality, which is that there is not only justice or injustice in the international community, that there are, of course, double arches. The difference between China and Serbia, when it comes to territorial integrity, concerns, you know, what -- billions of people. We are absolutely right, as well as other major states in the world, but, to speak, Orwell, they are a little bit more right because there are very strong arguments of the power of these countries. The International Court of Justice, when he delivered his opinion, did not go by the power of the arguments, did not respect the power of the arguments, probably respected something else, the arguments of strength and the fact that the largest number of states, including those from which the judges came, recognised Kosovo's independence. Does anyone expect that the International Court of Justice or any body of the international community will, by its decision to this day, undo what has been done in the past 20-30 years in the Balkans? I think it's utopian. There are no more socialists in this country. Therefore, I suggest that the other self-taught. Anyway, I want to say that we need to continue our fight. We have our views. We believe that this violates our territorial integrity and sovereignty. We think we're right. It is necessary to go before the General Assembly of the United Nations, of course, but it should be kept in mind that this is not the end of our policy towards Kosovo. Steps should be well thought out and the motion resolution should be well thought out, so that we don't get into a situation where we finally put ourselves at an end to what we're talking about today. When it comes to the International Court of Justice, I would just like to remind myself that the International Court of Justice declared itself incompetent when the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia sued NATO member states which bombed Serbia without a United Nations Security Council decision, so that the same International Court of Justice a few years later would have its own argument on the first decision, that it was not competent, and that it was not Serbia, or Yugoslavia, that it was not a member of the United Nations, that it had the exact opposite reason for the lawsuits of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia against Serbia, and it appeared to the authorities, although it was the same period, when Serbia was or was not a member of the United Nations. Also, not to mention Badenter's commission, not to mention Rambuje, when one of the reasons why it was not accepted was the proposal to hold a referendum in Kosovo. I do not believe that anyone here now running state negotiations would accept a referendum in Kosovo, especially in the 1990s. When it comes to lawsuits against these countries that have confessed, I must also tell you that this is, of course, legally correct and politically perfectly fine, but I would like to remind you that the International Court of Justice, once again to remind myself, has announced to the unsuspecting when we accused the states that bombed us, and, on the other hand, when it comes to that, we have ruled before domestic courts here some who also bombed us before 2000, so when there was a change of government after 2000, all these lawsuits and judgments have been annulled or withdrawn by the Supreme Court, I don't know anymore. It was the time of the new policy Mr Jovanovic was talking about earlier. Therefore, I don't just know when the party in which part of the government was, as most of the polemics are being led here among the parties of the single DOS, which won the Socialist Party of Serbia in 2000 in the elections. Obviously, you did not win with the same policy, except that the policy was against Milosevic. I just don't know why this policy was any different from this issue of Kosovo and Metohija. I think the essential question is that we're all running away from it here, and I think there's little who mentioned that question today at all. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Presidents, Parliament Speakers, MPs, ministers, respected citizens, we do not have this topic and will not be there if the Serbs are no longer in Kosovo. And therefore, if you want us to lead this country wisely, we need to think and weigh what our moves are, not at this session, so you don't expect someone seriously in this session to talk about what they really want to do. Slovenians and Croats have talked about brotherhood and unity for 70-80 years, and they have made their independent states, and we even threaten and talk about something we will never do. I really think it's high time for politicians in Serbia to sit down and discuss what interests are at stake here. Does anyone really think that the European Union and the German state prefer Albanians to Serbs or other peoples of the former Yugoslavia? Let's ask ourselves what interests are and what interests are at stake? We really need to talk essentially about what we want more than this country and where the pressure on this country ends. This is not a question that I should ask, it is a question that the President of the Republic should ask, because he has been chosen with the basic concept of opening this country to the world, entering the EU, and this same EU, the International Court of Justice and the UN, etc. They are not forcing us to get closer to the EU, because at this point Serbia's biggest allies are not the EU or some state, but two permanent members of the Security Council, without whose vote Serbia cannot continue to count on the remaining issue at all on the agenda. Or five EU members, how will they continue to have their views on this? So I think it's our highest interest at this point to see where our card-sharing place is on the European continent. Where do we belong, or what is our concept, and what is required of us? What if our next step is that it is necessary for EU membership to somehow recognise Kosovo and Metohija? There is Mr. Canak, let him not feel it as an invitation to a similar policy, but the constitutional and legal positions of Kosovo and the Vojvodina are the same according to the 1974 Constitution. Is that a message, if anyone is speaking here, and therefore I ask the MPs not to lightly transfer the blame from one authority to another. For example, Kostunica's party will now say Boris Tadic is guilty or the SPS because there has been an advisory opinion by the International Court of Justice today. I can say that it is your fault from the previous government that independence of Kosovo and Metohija was declared at the time in 2008. Those from that government and all of you after 2000 you can say that it was Milosevic's fault, because he lost the war, that is, Resolution 1244, Military and Technical Agreements, etc. Milosevic can say that it is Tito's fault, because in this same hall here, the 1974 Constitution, which gave Kosovo the same status as Serbia. Just as someone will say our kings are guilty of creating Yugoslavia instead of independent Serbia after winning World War I. Of course, we can also go to Kosovo's colour, which was usually between Serbs and Turks, because Albanians in that period in Kosovo were not there. What's the point? Ladies and gentlemen, 45, 68 and 81 were neither Slobodan Milosevic nor the SPS, but there was Albanian separatism and extremism. If someone thinks that separatism and extremism have arisen as a response to the behaviour of the Serbian government, they do not know the historical facts. Albania's policy has always been the creation of an independent state, i.e. then the Republic of Kosovo. There was no difference between different political options in Kosovo. This is just about how someone thinks to close a book called the Balkans. How someone thinks to close a book called the Balkans with solutions that open up opportunities for new conflicts. There's no lasting peace if he's not just. Leaving the unresolved Serbian issue in the Balkans, the Serbian issue in Republika Srpska, the Serbian issue in Montenegro, the Serbian issue in Kosovo, the Serbian issue in Krajina, the Serbian issue in Croatia, the Serbian issue, or the Bosniak issue in the Rasko area, are all issues that remain unresolved and unclosed. As for Kosovo and Metohija, we, ladies and gentlemen, have tried both military and political and legal. You both had Milosevic and you after Milosevic. What's the score? Doesn't that say enough about this not being a party issue, this is a state issue that's a question for all of us. So today, I absolutely don't care that we're making any political points, or that I'm praising anyone or embarrassing anyone, I just want us all to realize together that the situation is very difficult, and that it won't help us to look for the culprits in each other or to take the blame from each other. It's a problem that's been around for decades, if not centuries. It's not the only problem Serbia has. If we close our eyes to all the problems Serbia has, we will welcome again some advisory opinions of the International Court of Justice. The problems need to be solved. Sometimes it's hard and it's not easy. Of course, when someone here talked about a new policy, a compromise solution, etc., I don't know what a compromise solution really would be acceptable. We should be aware of the new political reality we are in, and this political reality is such that today we should defend Kosovo, but not leading the country into isolation or self-insulation. How else are we going to defend her by closing ourselves in? Just as we need to know, to be aware, all the injustices of the order in which we live. Just because the international order is unfair doesn't mean we should be out of it. So I think it is important that there is a dialogue between political parties on what we are talking about today. It is also important to react sometimes that the international community knows where our red lines are, but Serbian citizens really need to know more as far as, as far as and what the ultimate goal is. We will come to this point that citizens' trust in the international community will be even worse than citizens' confidence in domestic politicians, which is otherwise very bad. We've been chosen here to lead this country, not to convince each other who's more bad. This issue overcomes the issue of power and opposition. This overcomes the question of whether anyone was in power 10, 20 or not, or how many years ago, or a year ago. Otherwise, when I was elected chairman of the SPS General Board, it was in 2003, one of the first activities I had in consultation with then Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic, a consultation on the departure of our delegation to the Kosovo negotiations, I think it was in Vienna. Negotiations last, talks last, but we need to know. The United States and Europe's largest countries maintain Kosovo's independence. Albanians in Kosovo do not want to talk about anything but that. Then let's know what our alternative is. Let's not threaten anyone if we can't and we don't want to make it happen. History is sometimes filled with those who attribute themselves to historical events. This is about the future of these people who are supposed to live in Kosovo and Metohija, 100-150 thousand Serbs and non-Albanians living there. What happens if their exodus starts tomorrow? If he starts attacking them? How are we going to react? What are we gonna do? How do we do that? It will not help us, with all due respect, to address anyone other than those countries that have the greatest action in the international community. I know that the SPS for many of you is an alibi for all your mistakes, failures, failures, etc. So be it. I want you to be better than us on this. Just so you know, it's not easy. That's what you'll have our support for. Our support is because the Kosovo issue is not a Kosovo issue. This is a question of Serbia and Serbia's future. This topic today, believe me, may seem to you to be a question of the International Court of Justice's opinion. This is a question of where we want to go as a state, who are our allies, whether we have an ally at all, and what is the ultimate goal of all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43591	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43592	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I won't have a fatalist attitude that we've heard or, say, a total defeat or something related to the decision of the International Court of Justice, but it's a lost battle, that's a fact. The fight lasts long, someone's been going back far, Minister Dacic just now. I can say, let's follow that fight for the last 20 years as I've been an adult, and I had here, let's say, an accident that I served an army at a time when that Albanian, it seems to me that his name was Keljmendi, in Paracino, killed several soldiers. There were also demonstrations in Kosovo and Metohija, etc. Since then, to this day, I have been actively involved in politics for 20 years, but I can say that my impression is that these last 20 years or these two decades are actually two decades of lost battles. This is just one in a row. There have been mistakes before, but I don't want to look back, it's been a long time. The country's three politicians, with the highest trust and the highest power in the last twenty years, are Slobodan Milosevic, Vojislav Kostunica and incumbent President Boris Tadic. I repeat, these are all lost battles. The previous two are already obviously political past, Mr Boris Tadic is current, and if the defeats continue, you will be the political past, with the same fate as the two. What are these mistakes? Not just this one now. This is not the only mistake of this government of the Republic of Serbia and it is not the only defeat. There's a lot of defeats, a fight against crime, we heard earlier. During that time, the EU is publishing information that 80 tonnes of various narcotics cross our territory over a year of transit. Today, drugs are cheaper on the streets of Belgrade than ever, which means that there is more to offer and demand than ever before, and the Zemun clan, the Surcin clan, Sharici, has been broken, so which clan sells drugs cheaper than ever before, if crime is successfully fought. The faster way to the EU is now said in 2020, reconciliation with all the countries of the world, especially the one with which they have previously, so Kostunica and Milosevic, have had a fight, and I personally attended July 2nd this year, in line to join the US Embassy, when ministers had to run out of the order and not attend the US Independence Day reception on July 4th. They were all invited. It's not bad, it's not bad, everybody's on their way, they're in line, and they're out of line, and they're running one by one. I even heard, a minister was standing next to me, I won't tell who it was, who invited him and who told him not to go to the reception, it's already known. It's that approach and the way we work as a serious state. The economy is ruined. Salaries are 100 euros less than this government is average. The dinar is weaker than last year 30%, and we spent a billion and a half euros this year defending the same dinar. In the history of mankind, there are historians here, there is no example of tribes, nations, states that have defended or achieved tribal, national, state-owned interest with a broken economy, poor individuals and without allies. The only time we can get into the next battle is when we start working on this. In September, there will be a UN Assembly, and I agree perhaps not to speak publicly what should now contain this resolution, etc., and of course this government should take responsibility and go to fight this battle too, but after that, because of all these defeats there is nothing terrible, it will not hurt much, it is necessary for Serbia, it must be held accountable for what is being done, it is necessary to call new parliamentary elections and choose a new government that will try to have less defeat, primarily in the interest of the state of Serbia and our citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43593	Time. The word has an MP, Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43594	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is very ugly for me to have gathered here today, where a part of the government has come to ask the MPs for support for a decision to be made. As far as I can tell, you in the government have no unity over that decision. Some ministers from some parties that are in the coalition completely ignore this decision and are not present here today. They do their jobs, run a campaign, make some regions, what they don't do in Serbia, share some funds. Here, I see the tandems that fought -- no friend of mine, Mrkonjic and Kalanovic, no Dinkic. I see that with Mrs Dragutinovic she is completely at odds with a number of other problems you have in the government. Can you overcome that? It was very awkward for me to listen to Minister Dacic's discussion. I listened very carefully. The man explained nicely. Do our politicians who go outside, who go to the UN, who go to Brussels, warn anyone that there is Resolution 1244, which must be respected? That's the foundation. This is something basic that we have received and why the war has been interrupted and on these grounds, Serbia is building on these foundations today. But you can see for yourself, the International Court, it does not respect the resolution, does not respect. How will he respect any other decisions? He doesn't respect anything. We're not necessarily critical of the court now. The court is doing their job, and someone told him to do it. Let's not talk about an independent judiciary right now. I don't see here, to just go back to the government once more, and the minister, certainly Bradic resigned after being dropped at the Constitutional Court of Information Law because we here explained for days that it was wrong with the Constitution. I think he's taken a leave, Mr. President. Right? I see he's not here. He's not there. I expect some more, when some laws fall here, that some ministers will resign correctly and withdraw. My countryman and friend, Vuk Jeremic, I expected him to resign after this court decision, which is natural, and that was expected and that would be nice, not to convince us here for hours. You don't need to convince us. Why didn't you convince the court? Why didn't you take it out? Why didn't you convince the judges? You did it day and night. The vote - ten, four, nine, five, six, as it was, is a sign that you have not done the work, and someone who does not do the work must withdraw. It's a moral act. Therefore, I expected the minister of justice to resign the other day when she defended the law so that the executive power and legislation could intertwine, that the same people would carry out. You defended it and it was logical to fight it. It's the basis of the fight against corruption. You can't let something like that happen. Mr. Vuk Jeremic was due to resign when he explained to us here that Eulex was coming in, to accept EULEX from about six points. Six dots doesn't exist. We accepted the roundabout Ahtisaari's plan and dug ourselves a hole that we couldn't get out of, and involved ourselves in an unembarkable position that we couldn't get out of. I expected the other day to happen here, we chose the governor, we were very serious. The governor didn't do us any good to show up. We've been waiting for him. The man we chose, no one saw him. The man doesn't have it to come. We're waiting for him and he won't keep coming and he didn't come to the end of the session. Mr. President, you suggested him. Why didn't he come at least to nod his head - good afternoon, I'm Mr. Soskiæ? We'd be happy to. So we don't respect ourselves, and then they won't respect us outside. We must respect ourselves. We must respect our Parliament. Mr. Shoskic was supposed to come, he had to come. We chose some High Council judges, and they didn't come either. We waited for them and they didn't come. Tomorrow to meet them in the street, in the hallway, we don't know we chose them, we don't know who the people are. So, that's not nice. Maybe you don't know that, and I'm asking you not to let such things happen, to choose an important official proposed by the president of the state, he humiliated you and us. He didn't come, he didn't sit down. He didn't have to say anything, just to nod his head and say, "Good afternoon, I'm the one and that one, and we'd be happy, but no man came." We've been waiting here for hours for Minister Dinkic. He doesn't come for two days. We've been walking around the halls all day and he's gone, and then he sends Mrs. Kalanovic over to replace him and that's how the session is held. He's gone now. There's no man coming. He'll never come and when he comes he'll just be a minute or two and a fog. Therefore, I ask you to give this institution a little courtesy and put it in order. I also have one objection to the Prime Minister. Mr. President, be careful when you look at the democratic states, the winemaking association, the dairy producer, when he asks for a meeting on some important issue with the prime minister, with the government, they enable them and always meet, take France, Germany, take many countries of the world. We've asked for a meeting with you on this issue we're discussing today. Mr. Nikolic went out in public and brought it out. You had to make a date. You can't make a decision. Imagine yesterday, we are called from the Assembly and they say – Mr. Ilic, tomorrow is the session of the Assembly. It's been on site for an hour, so find her and read her. That's how they informed us about today's session. I tell them - I'm in the Ravanica monastery, there's a party there, and now I don't know if they have a website, how do I read it? They say, "Get somewhere, find yourself there on a website, and look at it tomorrow morning for consultations, and then it's the session of the Assembly." That's too much. It's too unserious for one parliament, it's unserious for all of us, and that's why we of the opposition are angry, and it pisses us off. So this may be the only chance that, Mr. President, I'm telling you, and you call and tell them to get a little heavy. I'd be happy to start working the way we're supposed to, to start doing what we do to one serious parliament of a serious state, not to humiliate ourselves, because then we'll be less humiliated by the court in The Hague, and by the UN Assembly, and by the Security Council, and all of us will be less humiliated if we ourselves respect ourselves more ourselves and our institutions. I ask you to consider this question that's on the agenda today, that we might fix it a little bit with these amendments that have been given, and it's no big deal, it's no big deal, it's no big deal, it's a fix, it's a fix. Maybe it's good and maybe it's a great idea, which Mr. Dacic was talking about, if someone didn't respect Resolution 1244, there should have been a lawsuit, that lawsuit would have prompted someone to think that Security Council Resolution 1244 was violated. It was supposed to be done, and it wasn't supposed to be vain, but it should be accepted. Therefore, we are in favour of unity on important issues for Serbia. We are to honor the agreement, but believe me, we now have this UN Assembly that is extremely important. What if it's negative then and then what if we lose the battle? Then there's something to be done. There must be elections, resignations must be made. Politics has been missed. You promised, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, I remember, a hundred times you repeated here -- both Europe and Kosovo. Kosovo is gone, for now, Europe is gone. What happened here? The economy, here, we're talking the other day, the minister one comes out and explains -- there's Fiat coming, moving all the factories, the Italians are saying -- what you're thinking, that doesn't matter. So there can be no more lies, there can be fraud, we can lie to ourselves, we can lie to the people, we can lie to our institutions, and we can come here with false promises, etc. Therefore, many ministers when they come to this parliament give us some false hope, false promises. We're looking for the truth. She's sick and don't think you lost Kosovo. Kosovo has been lost for years. Many governments have lost him in continuity and many presidents have lost him. You may have fallen for that finish now, but watch out for one thing, we're not accusing you of being directly guilty, but we're accusing you of having been able to fix a lot of things and not giving us that false hope and false promises, if you yourself know the time has passed for false promises. There was a lot of opportunities to do. I remember, in 2000, on the first Serbian negotiating team around Kosovo, with late Zoran Djindjic and Vladik Artemi, and some others I participated. I remember exactly what was said. I remember what we were asked to do. I'm not gonna give you time right now, and we could have done a lot of things, and we could have done a lot better and much more favorably. I remember perfectly well that we went to the White House four times and talked about the problem. There was a way to solve it. The stubbornness of certain people, stubbornness and rigidness of one policy have led us here where division in the government has led us. I'm not going to quote now that I'm embarrassing some people here who are present, but many who are now at the highest state level were later on in the negotiating teams and were completely telling another story. I remember this story perfectly and they remember it well, and some of them are present in this room. They said -- you know what, Kosovo, that's what you do, it's okay, whatever you say, but a little bit about the people, you know, we have to go there. Now, that story has ruined Serbia. You weren't in that story then, Mr. Tadic, you weren't in it, but I'm telling you, some of your current associates are. I remember when we were sitting down and when we talked about it, they said, "Well, we have to do this, we'll give you anything but us to come to power, we'll give you everything, it doesn't matter." What happened now? Now the situation is changing. I remember when we had conversations in Pristina, when we were stoned by a bus, etc. and how we have been and what anyone has spoken. Many today tell a double story. If it hadn't been for that double story, we would have had a much better position now, a easier position, if we had a firm attitude. I'm glad, my heart is full, when someone says we're not going to break our Constitution, we're not going to break it. If something's wrong, we'll change it, but we won't break it, while today's Constitution is valid, and not -- politics a little over there, a little over here, you're giving a story to strangers, a story to the locals, and then it's all over like this. You, Mr. President, in front of this grand court decision, I resent you not showing up at Bratuntz. If you were in Srebrenica, you had to be in Bratunac. That was basic, because there's victims, there's less, there's half, but they're still victims. You had to be in Bratunc, you were in Srebrenica, you were in Bratunc, you had to be in Bratunc, and you had to make sure that the citizens said -- our president was both in one place and the other, condemned both of them, and we had to bring these declarations here, both of them, and not share the victims, because all of them on the outside took advantage of it and saw that we were being irresponsible, irresponsible to our own people. It's a big problem, we shouldn't have let that happen, and that's why we've suffered this defeat. This is a great legal defeat. I've heard Mr. Batakovic here, I've appreciated him for years, and, even though we're good friends, he's talking about some expert team, a strong team. Now I'm just asking one thing. That team lost the game. Now I ask a question – one of the team members, Mr. Varadi, works in Budapest at the university, whose college is it? Who's funding it? I know, but that's what I'm asking. Who's there? I listened the other day to Vojin Dimitrievich, who must be running an NGO – who's funding it? Ask around who's funding Vojin Dimitrijevic. I don't mind, but you should see that. Whether these people can be on a team right now, but we need to be very clear, very precise, and we need to have answers to a lot of questions. That's why Mr. Vuk Jeremic is going to lose the game as captain of one team, if his fake players are put inside. Everybody's a little bit, and you've lost the game. Right? You may not be guilty, you may have trusted some people, but the captain is guilty because he chooses the wrong team. Therefore, I ask you to consider these questions and finally start solving them. This story about the EU must end. You have to be precise, what Mr. Dacic was asking, a series of questions here, that's what you should ask them when you see them. That's what you were supposed to set up for Beyden, the EU. These are very important questions, because they have to answer those questions if they want serious co-operation with us. Playing with Serbia, dragging it through, I remember in 2000, when we first spoke, it was said that in 2004, Serbia entered the EU, and it was moved to 2007, then 2011, and then it went suddenly. Why? Because some of our politicians have contributed to moving away from the EU, from those basic principles that were initially agreed. We cannot enter the EU with folk cuisines and boast about having them, for example, 700,000 in the soup kitchen. We cannot join the EU with unemployment. Of course, we're gonna lose those games. So I ask you, Mr. President, since I believe that you are chosen by these citizens directly, to take some measures and to have some people, especially those you need to send here and send them to us, to warn them to come and be present.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43595	Time. Mr. Balin Pastor has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43596	Dear President of the Republic, the Honorable Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is KIM's fifth decision in the National Assembly for the past three and a half years. We had one resolution on 14 February 2007. We had a second resolution on July 24, 2007, December 3, 2007, then one in February 2008. This is KIM's fifth decision. As for the previous proposals for decisions or resolutions, we have always been abstentions. We were restrained because of what we thought, and we still believe that certain parts of these proposals and resolutions were not in agreement with the modern language of diplomacy. We felt that certain terms, certain terms of these motions, were vague and vague. They've been putting an end to diplomatic relations with certain countries of the world. They declared military neutrality, which we believe is harmful to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. For these reasons, we did not support the previous resolution. But we have always stressed in February 2007, and in July 2007, and in December of that year, that for SVM, it is only acceptable for a peaceful solution to all misunderstandings and conflicts by political and diplomatic means, through dialogue and respect for the interests of both the majority and minorities in the entire KIM territory. We still think it's the only possible path. Unlike some other parties, the ruling majority, we fully respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We also respect the preamble to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We respect the first member, we respect the last member of 206. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and we respect, unlike some, and Article 184. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Who doesn't know what that member of the Constitution is talking about, let him check and look. So we respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia as a whole. We have never questioned the territorial integrity, sovereignty and constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia. When I say we didn't question, then I'm not just talking about SVM, we're talking about duchy Hungarians in general. But also, we all know that there's a certain fact that we shouldn't ignore and that we can't ignore and that we will. It is that for 11 years there has been no tax collection on KIM territory, there are no members of the police of the Republic of Serbia in KIM territory, there are no members of the Serbian Army in KIM territory. In one word, there is no Serbian state on AP KIM territory. It should also be said that since 2000, all governments, and the government of Zoran Djindjic, and the government of Zoran Zivkovic, and the government of Vojislav Kostunica and the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, have done everything they have done to ensure that KIM returns under the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia. Serbia lost its sovereignty over Kosovo 20-30 years ago. In the 1980s and 1990s, the Republic of Serbia lost its sovereignty over KIM. We now see in the proposal for a decision that we advocate historic reconciliation between the Albanian and Serbian people. It is, of course, commendable and certainly supportive. But, I mean, it seems to me that this initiative is a little late. She was late because if that initiative were 20 or 30 years ago, now maybe we wouldn't be having a debate about this decision and the cause wouldn't be the way it is. The sad fact is that political elite members led a competition 20 or 30 years ago on who would be more eager to reject both the possibility and the idea of sitting with Albanian representatives from the AP KIM territory. Now I'm no longer sure that it's possible for any superhuman efforts to say that this situation is changing. I don't want to talk about the advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice. I believe that the decisions of the courts, whether it is an International Court of Justice or another court, whether it is a verdict or an advisory opinion, should not be commented, but some influential experts on international relations that are close to the Serbian government have said in the previous days that the advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice is sobering. I think we should be aware of that. The government did not come today with a motion for a resolution it intends to refer to the UN General Assembly. We don't know what the plans are for after the UN General Assembly's decision. We don't know what the plan is if that decision is positive. We don't know what the plan is, and we won't know what the plan is, if that decision is negative. I would not like to talk about some of the solutions set out in the Bill of Decision that the Government has made to the adoption of the National Assembly. I would like to say so much that this text is much better for us than the texts, compared to the proposals for the 2007 and 2008 resolutions. Of course, we don't agree with all the formulas in this proposal for a decision, but it's more acceptable text than they've ever been. As I said earlier, we can support only efforts to address those issues with peaceful diplomatic, political means that have so far been unresolved, and for that of us, the government of the Republic of Serbia has the support. We will not be them, the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians will not be a party and the duchy Hungarians will not be a people in Serbia who will defile the government of the Republic of Serbia in order to address the UN General Assembly. We would like it to be in agreement, in dialogue, in talks with the EU, with EU members and with all those countries that the Republic of Serbia can and should count on in the years and decades to come. I should also say that, we haven't talked about it here in the National Assembly and I hope these sentences won't be misread, that we duchy Hungarians understand fully at these times the Serbian people. I would like to remind you, first of all, the public, because it's only a little bit talked about in Serbia, that we, Hungarians, have marked the 90th anniversary of the signing of the Triannian Peace Agreement on June 4th of this year. Hungary lost more than two thirds of its territory on 4 June 1920 and then Hungary lost more than half its population, 3.3 million Hungarian people woke up beyond the borders of Hungary and I can tell you, as a member of the Hungarian national community, and from the experience of saying that it takes more generations to pass to heal those wounds, if possible. That is why we fully understand the Serbian people in these very, very difficult moments. But we also believe that the government should lead a policy that is in the interest of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of its national and all its longness and all other possible differences. European integration should not be jeopardised. It must not be entered into open confrontation with the countries of the world, because it is not in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It is in the interest of Serbian citizens that the Republic of Serbia develops, that we have new jobs, that we have foreign investments, that we be a full Member State and the EU and, according to our deep conviction, NATO. This is the direction that we are facing in the interest of all RS citizens, this is the policy that the government should lead. The EU has offered joint writing of a resolution to the UN General Assembly. The EU Council of Ministers has been considering today, or considering perhaps at these moments, the situation in Kosovo following the publication of an advisory opinion by the International Court of Justice. I hope and we are deeply hoping and we consider it only the right steps if the Serbian government discusses all the next steps with these countries. We believe that confrontation is a slowdown in European convergence and a very slow European approach, not in the interest of Serbs or Hungarians or other peoples living in RS territory anyway. We are not sure that this decision will contribute to the acceleration of European integration. We are not even sure that this decision will help Serbs in KIM. But since it is acceptable dialogue for us to believe that all unresolved issues should be discussed both with Albanians and with countries in the world, today we will vote in favour of this motion for a decision, hoping that the RS government will do nothing to harm the citizens of RS.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43597	The word has a National MP, Momo Colaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43598	President-in-Office, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and Minister, honourable MPs, I will be very brief, but I hope to be precise and clear. Our PUPS parliamentary group believes our country is in a very complex and difficult situation. We're very aware of that. In this context, we believe that the International Court has not respected all the facts that we have brought before the court and in this respect has not made the right move to address this key problem, it has remained on only one segment. We estimate that during this previous period, the government of the Republic of Serbia has made huge efforts to reach an acceptable solution. In this context, we have supported this whole time policy of a peaceful solution to the problem on the basis of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We also appreciate that the President of the Republic has made efforts to reach a compromise and solution that would be acceptable to everyone in this period. In that regard, we also supported that policy. Serbia's United Pension Party parliamentary group assesses the acceptable decision offered by the government. We think that only by continuing to fight in the United Nations can we achieve the interests of our country, and in this respect we think that all legal, political and diplomatic means should be used. Our message is precise and clear: there must be a fight to the end, Kosovo is part of Serbia and should remain that way. Our parliamentary group calls on all political parties, all political actors to achieve unity on this issue, on the matter of the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija in the composition of the Republic of Serbia. I hope that it is possible to find a compromise in the proposals made by individual parliamentary groups in order to achieve a single text that would be acceptable to most MPs, political parties and political structures. In that sense, in the voting day, we will support this decision and give a vote to support the government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43599	I thank Mr. Colakovic. I'm setting a 60-minute break. [[After break – 17.25]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. We are moving to work on the agenda of the Members of the People according to the declared word in a single search on the motion for a decision, the only item on the agenda today. I ask the MPs to take their seats. MP Gjorge Milicevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43601	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, what I want to say at the very beginning is that the importance of the proposed decision we are talking about today is great and I would say special. It is of particular importance that parliament and the government reaffirm a clear, determined and unequivocal policy of Serbia compared to our southern province. So, today, we reaffirm once again that governments and parliamentary majority are variable and that is democracy, but the relationship to vitals, the relationship to national, the attitude to state interests, to state issues is unchangeable and should not be variable. This decision is not only a political declaration, it is a clear and binding document for all state authorities in our country, and when it comes to foreign policy and when it comes to something that can be defined as a practical action. It is clear, and that is said many times today, that the fight for the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija within Serbia is a long, difficult and full of temptations. To be successful, we must all strive to build and maintain a consensus on such an important issue for our people and the state. The particular importance of this decision that we are talking about today is that we will also send a clear message to the world, both to our people in the space of Kosovo and Metohija and to all those who recognise the state of Serbia for their country and live in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. No matter how difficult the International Court of Justice's decision is for Serbia, it did not answer the fundamental question of the legality of secession, it left the issue to be considered at the UN General Assembly. What I also want to say is that the SPS will support this decision, because we believe we must continue to fight for Kosovo and Metohija and legal and political means. It is clear that when we talk about the International Court of Justice's advisory opinion, it is not only international law, it is about training with many political elements. We're afraid that here the argument of force and argument of strength has gone beyond the power of arguments and something that can certainly be defined as truth. The fight for Kosovo and the Metohija in Serbia is, among other things, a centuries-old struggle. We can look further, but we can look at more recent history. Albanian separatists have always sought to separate Kosovo and Metohija from Serbia, and Serbia to preserve Kosovo and Metohija in its composition. There are different experiences from that fight, but surely there is something that can be defined as a constant, which is a strategic, national and state goal. No matter how difficult and complex, I believe that Serbia today needs to make this decision at this session of the highest national representative body whose essence is crystal clear. Serbia continues its fight to defend territorial integrity and state sovereignty attacked in Kosovo and Metohija and will never recognise Kosovo and Metohija outside Serbia. The fight will continue with the political and legal means at our disposal. That's how I see this decision and our activity when it comes to the UN General Assembly. What is the essence of today's session? To be unique, to be unwavering as representatives of the people and to announce, by adopting this decision, that we will be consistent and persistent in this fight. If I may interpret the attitudes and moods of the people, or the citizens of Serbia, I would say that there is a consensus in the people on this matter. It is our obligation that we, the attitude that exists among the citizens of Serbia today, also be confirmed in the Republic Parliament. Such a confirmation and such a decision, with the maximum consent of all parties, can be a major contribution to our fight and government and state, and there is no room for politicisation, and there is no room for something that can be defined as a party. It will confirm to the international community that we are determined and there is no change when it comes to defending territorial integrity and state sovereignty. It will also be a message to countries under pressure to recognise Kosovo and Metohija to oppose these pressures, and it will certainly be a strong support for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, that Serbia will be persistent, that it will not give up, because they are the factor that decides to defend Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia's composition. So we need to make a decision, we need to go with a resolution to the UN Assembly, to very precisely define the text of the resolution, to very precisely define every next step, and there we demand a continuation of the negotiations, because the essence of UN Security Council Resolution 1244, no matter who read it, no matter how it interprets, has two key and essential things. The United Nations guarantees Serbia's territorial integrity and sovereignty. Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of Serbia, and the solution to problems in Kosovo and Metohija are negotiations in the political process, because only negotiations can come up with solutions that will be in the interest of both Serbs and Albanians living in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. Only negotiations can bring lasting peace and security in this space. In our fight for the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija, of course, there are many priorities, I would like to point out the two that I consider to be crucial and essential. First, Serbia, as has been said many times today, must continue diplomatic activity in order to defend our positions at the UN General Assembly session. As a second priority, I would especially like to emphasise our relationship with the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija and all those living in Kosovo and Metohija, and consider Serbia their country. Three essential questions are in this context. So, first of all, the truth about what's really going on in the space of Kosovo and Metohija, because objectively Kosovo and Metohija is the black spot of Europe and the modern world today. We must fight for those who live in the space of Kosovo and Metohija, and consider Serbia their country, to live as the whole normal world. We have to fight for the economic and social position of the people who live there. It is not important for Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija what is being said, but in what way and how it seems practical that they can see the future in these areas. Because at this point, they are the real defenders of Kosovo and Metohija. What I want to say, too, at the very end is that we consider the issue of Kosovo and Metohija to be a question of all issues. Of course, the issue of Kosovo and Metohija is very important, that the issue of Kosovo and Metohija be resolved by democratic, diplomatic and political means, dialogue, with respect for UN Security Council Resolution 1244, which should be the basis for finding a compromise solution. Of course, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Also, we want to make it clear, and we are sure that Serbia, no Serbian citizen, will ever give consent that Kosovo and Metohija will not be an integral part of Serbia. Someone can definitely take something from you, but what's been taken can always and must return. It's hard to get back what was willingly given and what the signature was put on. What I also want to say at the very end, I want to fully agree with the finding and the question that, among other things, was asked by the vice-president of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in his presentation – as long as and what is the limit and what else should we do? Governments changed, parliamentary majority changed in Serbia, different solutions were tried when it came to the Kosovo and Metohija issue, from military, political and legal. When it comes to the Government of the Republic today, Serbia is pushing for a continuation of European integration. There is clear and visible progress in judicial reform. It is clear, visible and recognizable intensities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to a clear, determined and successful fight against corruption and crime. We adopted the Srebrenica Declaration. We have fulfilled both moral and international obligations. They showed determination never to repeat such and similar crimes on all sides. We have shown that Serbia wants to lead a policy of peace, that it wants good neighbourly relations and stability and security in the region. Indeed, and I end up with the question as far as and what is the limit and what else should be done?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43602	The People's MP, Riza Halimi, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43603	Thank you, Madam President, Mr. President of the Republic, Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the beginning I will state that in front of the Coalition of Albanians, the Presevo Valley cannot accept this proposal for a number of reasons, which I will present in my discussion. In the last two decades, in a time of functioning of a multi-party political system in relation to the Kosovo issue, there has been no lack of political unity in Serbia, even at an age, especially in 1998, when enormously high homogenisation was achieved in refusing international assistance in resolving this sensitive issue. In fact, the basic fundamental problem that has been passed down from earlier times is the lack of realistic and modern access to Serbia's state policy towards Kosovo. Obviously, after the unseriously promised speed in resolving this issue and the dramatic and tragic consequences caused by this policy, the central authorities in Serbia still fail to formulate and implement a state policy on the Kosovo issue that would be in the role of solving the life problems of Serbian citizens, Kosovo, which would help stabilise the wider area. Following the International Court of Justice's opinion on Kosovo's independence, it is high time that a new constructive approach to solving very difficult, sensitive problems in the context of the European perspective for both Serbia and Kosovo would help improve conditions for the lives of Serbia, Kosovo and beyond. The list of these problems is indeed abundant, starting with the painful issue of missing persons, so the difficult problems of refugees, as well as a number of other sensitive unresolved problems that prevent citizens in both Kosovo and Serbia from achieving their Constitution and the law guaranteed rights. Of course, the lack of necessary minimum communication between Belgrade and Pristina affects Kosovo Serbs and Albanians in the Presevo Valley the most. Both are hostages of the current tense relations between Serbia and Kosovo's political leadership. I was convinced of that these days when I had the opportunity to speak to a considerable number of Kosovo Serb political representatives. When it comes to the Albanians of the Presevo Valley who have been ghettoized since the 1999 changes, they can be found to be in a far worse situation than in all previous times since World War II. The level of human rights, gentlemen, is still lower than the 60s and 70s, based on the 1974 Constitution. In addition to the catastrophic economic situation and the enormously high unemployment rate, we have a difficult unresolved problem of recognising Kosovo's university diplomas, as well as Albania and Macedonia, where young people from this area are mostly studying. Because of the non-recognition of documents issued by Kosovo institutions, a considerable number of citizens of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedje cannot obtain residence, and therefore personal documents, so they cannot achieve a number of guaranteed rights laws. So the Kosovo issue is not only a historic, diplomatic and legal issue, it is also a matter of life problems that have not been resolved for more than ten years. There is no word in this proposal on the international community's offer to start talks between Belgrade and Pristina on resolving concrete problems as soon as possible. Instead of worrying about specific life problems, the government has offered us a document that really represents the continuity of the decades-old Kosovo-led policy, despite a very clear opinion issued by the International Court of Justice. I think that rather than having a bad discussion on what essential question the International Court of Justice should have answered, it would have been more practical if we had devoted more space to life's problems today, and on this topic, there is certainly a dialogue between legitimate representatives of Serbia and Kosovo at this point, and what if not the co-operation of relevant institutions. Surely, this co-operation to address life's problems would come across EU wide-ranging support, which would be of great importance for both Serbia and Kosovo to speed up European integration, which is in fact the perspective of all European peoples, so why not Serbs and Albanians. I've had a chance to hear concerns here, or let's say pesoriously about the participation of Serbs in Albanian elections. Mr Simic, I am correcting you, by the constitution of Kosovo, these are the Kosovo elections, because all citizens bear even sovereignty and these rights to elections, not the elections of Albanians or Serbs or Turks, but the elections of the citizens of Kosovo. They automatically participate in these elections to protect interests in their municipalities where they represent the majority. It's quite legitimate, as I don't see absolutely any reason for us to express our concern at this time what if we go after the Serbs. A few days ago, I had opportunities at a gathering in Montenegro to see that this was not the current Kosovo Serb topic. They're currently struggling, dealing with life's problems, and they absolutely haven't expressed any fear that there's even some danger of anyone coming after them. That's the past. The past is 1988 and 1989. The past is certain in 2004. With the help of the international community, we know that the project being implemented, Ahtisaari's document, is an international project. It's not an Albanian project. We must bear that in mind, because it is the interest of citizens throughout Serbia not to create any illusion that we are solving the problems of people in the field with this general discussion, I repeat, neither Albanians in the Presevo Valley, nor Serbs in Kosovo, with such heated discussions.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43604	National MP Vlajko Senic has a word. Excuse me, Minister Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43605	Comrade Senic, I beg your pardon, I wanted to respond to the presentation of my colleagues, Halimi. I thought today's session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was a proposal for a government decision, not a conversation in southern Serbia. I can't help but notice that a colleague of Halimi is very incorrect, tendingly interpreting events from our past. What for him so-called. The Kosovo problem lasts for two decades, it is his personal right to understand history, but to compare the situation of Kosovo Serbs and Presevo Albanians in the way you have done it is really incorrect and it is not correct. I would remind you that the government of the Republic of Serbia and the previous government of the Republic of Serbia have adopted special acts to allow the registration of Albanians from the area of Medvedje, Bujanovac and Presevo to participate in local elections, in contrast to the examples, from Kosovo Serbs, Montenegrins and non-Albanian living who were expelled after 1999. More than 250,000, according to EU official reports, cannot reach today, with less than one per cent exception, to return to its hearths. Secondly, you mentioned things that don't stand. This government, there is counterpart Milan Markovic, and this co-ordination body he runs, making extraordinary efforts to improve the position of all residents from Presevo, Medvedje and Bujanovac, both in different areas and in education. You know well that the previous government of the Republic of Serbia in 2002 created normative assumptions that diplomas issued in Pristina, which have in their composition the UNMIK, based on Resolution 1244, are recognised in Serbia. After 2008, this was not possible because there is no UNMIK code in the contents of these documents. My colleague Markovic and I spoke to OSCE representatives, the ambassador who runs the job in Serbia, with another group of ambassadors who are interested in the issue, and we assured them that if these documents are presented with their content, we have no valid reason not to recognise them. But we also talked about what we did, and the opening of the Faculty of Law and Economic Affairs in Medvedja, and the intention of opening the school department in Bujanovac, and of taking an Albanian language exam in Presevo for obtaining licences and a number of other things we do together in the field of education. I would ask, if possible, first of all, that you do not present falseness, secondly, to remain in the context of a topic that is on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43606	Mr. Riza Halimi. Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43607	Madam President, I haven't heard a single reason why I haven't talked about the subject or that I've made a lie. I'd like to hear those arguments. Otherwise, I think they're arbitrary. As for the Coordination Body, you forgot that I was a signer, along with Mr. Markovic. Why do you only mention Mr. Markovic, and not me as an equal signer and operator of activity when it comes to the Coordination Body? I am twice losing my election and position in the Presevo municipality right on the subject of the Coordination Body and because of a series of problems that fail to solve at the promised speed and dynamics and a series of those problems from 2001, which have been outlined by both the federal and republican governments to solve within three years, and only now, after ten years, have we been far from the largest parts of these lenses and even those objectives in realisation. I'm absolutely not off topic. I've been talking all this time about this relationship between Albanians and Serbs, the Kosovo issue, the Kosovo issue, and I wanted to stress on solving life's problems. That's what people expect. I'm telling you, Serbs in Kosovo were invited representatives of the government, unfortunately they weren't, but local leaders of several Kosovo municipalities came with the majority Serb population. You know, it's not exactly this story that's been given for a wider audience like this. People tend to talk about serious life problems, and that's what keeps them down and what they stand for. So I say that instead of some high policy, which I am not involved in, I will not enter into these arguments at all diplomatically and historically, I am not an expert in this area, nor am I an expert in this area, as a representative of the people on the ground, I am talking about the need, and in fact, that life problems are being solved, because it depends on the authority of both this government and these countries and the position they will have in the international community and how the initiatives will then pass, both in the UN Assembly and in all other international organisations. I absolutely don't want to go off topic. On the contrary, I resent that we have announced that we have entered too many theoretical topics of debate, which are more for experts in these areas, and we are absolutely not dealing with the problems of people on the ground. In my opinion, this is a fundamental grudge. I wish we'd directed all the energy in that direction.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43608	The People's Messenger Vlajko Senic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43609	Dear President-in-Office of the Government, President-in-Office of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers and People's MPs, on our initiative and with the support of the UN General Assembly, the International Court of Justice gave an advisory opinion that the Declaration on Kosovo's independence is not in line with international law. The court's decision was one of the breaking news in the world's leading media. The general political impression is that the International Court of Justice gave good reason to lack the legality of Kosovo's decision to declare independence from Serbia. There was little space for our legal interpretation that the court did not answer the essential question. After this outcome in front of the UN's highest legal body, we cannot and must not stick our head in the sand and ignore political reality. She's very unfavourable for Serbia. We cannot move forward without looking at the current effects and the results of our policy. Our foreign policy initiative has not yielded the expected results. We believed that the International Court of Justice ruling would be the wind in the back of Serbia's efforts to challenge Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence in the field of international law. We believed that our legal arguments were such that they could change the political reality. We have chosen a court, confident that in the field of law we will win the right and that we will be strengthened by legal arguments, confirmed before the UN's highest legal instance, to return the ball to the political field in front of the UN General Assembly. We lost our legal battle last week. A military adventure ended a long time ago in defeat. Politics - Kosovo, then the EU - suffered a double defeat in the 2008 elections. Perhaps someone will say that this finding is political defetism and moral indifference to which we have no right. I firmly believe that it is true and that facing her is the only cure we can be better off with tomorrow. It is therefore important that the presidents of the government have openly said that the court's decision is difficult and unfavourable. Where are we today and what must we do tomorrow? The two questions to which the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia must answer are the two questions. Have we been in similar situations in the past, and what decisions have we made? I will remind everyone, and many were involved, that we entered into a conflict with the NATO pact by rejecting a plan in Rambuje, which envisioned 10,000 NATO troops in Kosovo and several thousand soldiers in Serbia. We said then -- they won't set foot on Serbian land. We have achieved political unity in that attitude. Have we reached our target? What was the result of such a policy? Could hundreds of thousands of Serbs call for that then achieved national unity and Parliament's decision and return to Kosovo? I can't. Did we in national unity and demonstrate our determination to refuse a compromise escape the bombing? We didn't. Have we prevented 10,000 foreign soldiers from coming to Kosovo by means of a congregation declaration? We didn't. Instead of 10,000, there came 40,000. What do I mean? This and such a declaration did not respect reality and did not take care of people, Kosovo, people in Kosovo and Serbia's interests, but exclusively about daily politics. Reality made the Declaration with a dead letter on paper. What have we achieved with the 2007 Resolution? It's all gone. Unfortunately, only military neutrality is still alive. What do we do today so we don't get into a similar situation tomorrow? How do we make a decision that respects the new, and I'd say before the old political reality? How can the government implement today's decision and be the basis for victory, not a new defeat? Responsible, wise and real policy is more important than national consensus. We need to seek a political solution in the UN, along with the EU and US countries. So, today's decision should be the basis for the government's compromise, not for conflict, to give our hand, not to turn our head, to demonstrate responsibility to Serbia and the future of our children. Serbia has no power for a new period of conflict with the world's most powerful countries. The economy is fragile, on glass feet. The people are cramping in trouble, poverty is everywhere around us. People are having a hard time living and looking forward to the future with suspense. They look at today’s congregation, expecting us to give them optimism and hope, not pessimism and anxiety. Dear Mr. President, respected ministers, do not help this and that state in Serbia unless we find a solution in partnership with those of whom Serbia and our children depend. I'll be extremely open and very clear. I do not see the possibility for us to achieve and defend our interests in front of the UN General Assembly, which is a political field couple of excellencies, without the support of the world's most powerful countries, therefore, without the support of the EU and America. If, as we say, politics has won in the field of law, it is very difficult to hope that politics will lose in the field of politics. By interpreting this decision today, we will show a critical degree of national responsibility and patriotism or, as Mr Dacic said, if we go the wrong way again, through conflict with our only natural partners, we will not be able to accuse anyone of our own destruction. At all costs, we must make it possible for Serbia and our children to have a future, and that must be the result of today's decision. We all know that the only sustainable political and economic framework guaranteeing Serbia's development, progress and employment is EU entry. It's our market, our capital source, the only safe port for our ship. The task of leading Serbia into the EU has been primarily given to us by Serbian citizens in the 2008 elections. I will remind you all, I will remind the citizens of Serbia, that at the most critical and most sensitive political moment in months of Kosovo's declaration of independence, the citizens of Serbia had no dilemma, did not bow down and surrender. They did not choose a policy of conflict with the EU and America. They voted for Europe twice, the first time for Boris, the second time for European Serbia. They voted for Europe's Serbia because they knew it was the only policy that could allow for the country's normal and balanced development. We have had enough votes to form a government, but thanks to both the political and human courage of the Socialist Party's leadership we have chosen the path that is the only possible for this country. There is no entry into the EU if we are in conflict with the EU and America, it is an axiom and it is a mantra that must be the idea of a leader of every political decision, both today and every next day, and a point. There isn't and no one can have a dilemma. The assembly represents the majority will of citizens who want Serbia in the EU. After today's decision, the government must take a political initiative that will allow us to preserve both partners and our interests in front of the UN General Assembly. It's possible if we defend our interests with our partners. The government has done so successfully so far, but now her task will be far more difficult. So, we are voting for today's decision with a firm belief that we are giving the Serbian government support, encouragement and wind in the back to do what is possible, I repeat, to preserve interests rather than lose our partners. Dear MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, if we have a dilemma about what to do in the future, we return always in February and May 2008, respect the clear and unequivocally expressed will of citizens to be led by the president of the state and the government in the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43610	Thank you, Mr. Senic. The word has a national emissary, Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43611	I just don't know who to express my gratitude to, after 25 months of insistence, we are finally talking about Kosovo and Metohija in the Serbian Parliament. I am neither paranoid, but I am not naive enough to believe that it is a coincidence that we are discussing Kosovo and Metohija issues on the same day that our southern province is also being debated in Brussels. I also can't without pulling a parallel between the two in every late debate, with a known and unfortunately most commonly applied form of contraception in Serbia that comes down to a pill called the day after. Why not two years ago? Why not just four days from the planned International Court of Justice decision, as requested, on July 19th? Should we, with this Kosovo-led defence, experience the historic defeat of the state of Serbia and its people, in order for the friendly government in Serbia to remember that it is necessary to discuss Serbia in Serbia clearly, loudly, without Thaci's envoys, under the demagogue flossula that a broad consensus is now needed in order to preserve national and state interests? You actually want to share the responsibility for the consequences of the disastrous policy of this government with all of us. It won't work. And, in particular, on-national consent will not be spoken by people who, for marketing reasons, have defined that, at any cost, the proture of dogmat – the EU has no alternative. What did that mean? This meant that, on the orders of Western mentors, with the advisory support of domestic marketing agencies, which claim that the people are full of Kosovo and want money and a better life, you push the slogan - the EU has no alternative, whatever that means. No one has ever tried to question the EU's dogmat, as it would automatically be marked as a retrograde loser. Without anyone's approval, although according to the Constitution, the Serbian Parliament makes decisions on important foreign policy issues, the tortured Boza Djelic is right from aunt's cannabete, he dared to sign the SAA, which has helped us so much as the people and the state, that we are not aware to this day - the introduction to visa liberalisation, free travel,* holidays on all wanted destinations. I guess that's why two-thirds of us can't even leave Serbia in scientific fiction, relax and fly. The people eat bread of seven crusts, and the ministers change. Just look at the Minister of Shutanovec. I really don't know where the surprise of the representatives of our government, who behave even more naively than the French maids. The unilateral application of the SAA, the acceptance of Eulex as a consequence of Ahtisaari's plan, the border co-operation agreement, the demand for an opinion with an extremely foolishly formulated issue, instead of a lawsuit against the states that have applied legal violence, all this is just an introduction to the final negative opinion of SMEs. Once, children in Serbia, in the context of history, will learn the mathematical formula, which leads to the SAA in SMEs. Finally, something that has been haunting me intimately and painfully since the adoption of the KIM Resolution, adopted by the National Assembly of Serbia on 21 November 2005, on 30 September 2006, when the new Constitution of Serbia was adopted, the decision on military neutrality, 26 December 2007, and in particular, after confirming the Serbian government's decision to annul the act of unilaterally declared independence of Kosovo, on 18 February 2008, I believed that this shirt with the inscription – Kosovo is Serbia – would be the subject of our memories and would go to the museum. Instead, they persecuted us not to defend Kosovo with shirts, to support Serbia, which has no alternative for us, is simply demagogy. You mocked all our efforts, including trying to show national unity by holding the meetings of this assembly right at KIM. We went, you had a lot of work to do here. To make things worse, space was created on the t-shirt to write to the Duke, and Raska and three dots. You were tireless in what you euphemistically called regionalization, while every normal man knows that it's a fragmentation and a breaking, a breaking of a single state. So I ask you, is he who is first and most responsible for taking this kind of wrong policy going to resign or not? Of course I don't expect Joseph Biden or your other good friends to resign. The question is for all of you, from the top, supposedly, domestic authorities, everyone who promised us not to worry, because they know what they're doing, and it's almost better than dirty Harry. It was nice to see that almost Euro-vision-prepared competition that the KiM should be decided by a fair court. But it is not nice that the epilogue is such that Serbia now finds itself in an almost worse position than after NATO bombings. The SMEs, which the people in Serbia now consider to be a "little tomorrow of justice", functioned in line with the sentence of a famous leader who said -- your laws against my cannons. It's an accident that this great leader and Führer was called Hitler. Our laws were against NATO bombs, against killing civilians with heartless rationalization that it was a "merciful angel" who wanted to help the people get rid of the evil leader. Not only did it give up a lawsuit against the aggressors, but it gave up the very idea of aggression. They may soon try to convince us that the bombings were never there, but we hurt ourselves. As a long time ago, already forgotten Serb Martinovic, who was declared a victim of his own conspiracy against his own body. It has also dropped the lawsuits against countries that have committed legal violence, as European integration processes must not be challenged. Since we have become so well-integrated, the only thing left is to ask the most politely who committed the violence – are we right to consider ourselves a victim of violence? We got the expected answer – you didn't, because if you were convinced you were right, you wouldn't even ask us to. Simply put, when a man knows he's right, that everything that stands for him has been done, he's not asking for an opinion, he's insisting on the truth, using all the legal means. Take responsibility, therefore, for the consequences of your devastating policy that has led Serbia to a break-in and to a difficult, almost unremembered position in its history. Be aware of your moral responsibilities, if for nothing else, then because you have denied people the basic human right, which is the right to life, you have promised never to abandon them. You left both us and them, the day you rushed to Brussels to sign, as Mr Senic said - the mantra called the EU has no alternative.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43612	The People's Messenger, Nenad Canak, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43613	Mr. President-in-Office of the State, Mr. Prime Minister, the Honorable Mr. and Madam Minister, dear colleagues, I really cannot understand this discussion for the simple reason why all the answers that we are trying to find here now contain this book called the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Three and a half years ago, in this same place, when we were reviewing the consequences of the development of the situation in Kosovo, I also showed this book and I also reminded those who participated in the creation of its contents, and here first I think of gentlemen from today's opposition. The preamble to this constitution is -- starting with the state tradition of the Serbian people and the equality of all citizens and ethnic communities in Serbia, starting with the fact that the province of KiM is an integral part of Serbia's territory, that it has a position of essential autonomy within the sovereign state of Serbia and that from such a position of the province of KIM follow the constitutional obligations of all state authorities to represent and protect Serbia's state interests in KIM in all internal and foreign political relations, Serbian citizens bring the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It's preamble. I'll remind you of a few words. From everything said, it follows the constitutional obligations of all state authorities to represent, protect Serbia's state interests on KIM. Three and a half years ago, I said it meant it, and I'm going to say it again now, that those who declared the independence of the Republic of Serbia's independent territory committed acts for which they must be immediately arrested and brought to justice. Are you, Mr Dacic, able to arrest all those who have declared Kosovo's independence now? Absolutely. Let's see that too. Let's see if we can follow the Constitution. Who's ready to vote here on whether or not we're going to do what the Constitution tells us to do? I'm ready for the simple reason I'd vote for that, if we're going to stick to the Constitution, let's stick to it. But the constitution which the people have voted. Ladies and gentlemen, you remember very well that this same constitution, which obliges only one man in this country of reputation, which is the President of the Republic of Serbia, must perform that function according to preservation -**I say I will devote all my strength to preserving the sovereignty and the overall territory of the Republic of Serbia, including KIM, etc. So here we have a constitutional obligation to do something. Three and a half years ago, when another government was headed by Kostunica, Dr Vojislav, did not go to Kosovo, the police did not go to do what her constitutional obligation was. It didn't all happen. All those legalists then said - now is not the time to do it. Okay, maybe that wasn't the time. In that same constitution, which we were forced to swear because, well, that's the thing, it says, Article 15. The constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia – by 31 December 2008 all other laws that do not comply with the Constitution will be harmonised. Has anyone here considered the need to pass a law on essential autonomy for the AP Kosovo? Is that what the government did back then? It's not. Is that what some MP group did? It's not. Did any MPs do it? It's not. Has 30,000 voters gathered to do so? It's not. In other words, this was also a propaganda dead letter on paper, which is used to distract attention from what is really happening in this country. What's going on in this country? I'll tell you. What happens today is that we're hearing stories about 25 months ago that this government is made up and that it should be held accountable for what happened. Okay, but I have another question -- when did the fact that the state of Serbia stopped functioning in Kosovo? She stopped working 11 years ago. Some today swear that, is it so, Mr Todorovic, that Resolution 1244 was a victory, and that Resolution 1244 was practically an outcast of the Republic of Serbia from the territory of the AP Kosovo and the introduction of an international protectorate? You said, if I noticed correctly, it was a NATO occupation, but the first ones came to Kosovo, and it is forgotten today. No, that's not funny, that's true. Unfortunately, it's funny. Don't disturb Mr. Chank, please. I thank you very much for the protection of my parliamentary rights. I will remind you that we live in the country, because this is actually the story of Serbia, and this same country is this session and dedicated, in which journalist Teofil Pancic was beaten by two unknown persons on the GSP bus two days ago with metal bars on his head, although he did not take a commission for something he did not work from a low-building domain. I have to say, that's terrible. But the scarier it is that none of the people present have come to his aid. It's a terrible thing that a 12-year-old boy in Novi Sad died in a crosswalk of death. It's scarier that by the time the police got here, someone stole his cell phone. That's what it says about this country. It's about the state of the spirit we're in. When do we start calling things their names? When are we going to look ourselves in the eye and say that false names and false definitions are constantly hanging over this country? We're always talking about some cheerleading groups that have been giving their support to this or that political option. To become head of a fan group, a kiosk should be set on fire, preferably by a Goran, in order to show how brave someone is. It's all over the world called a street gang and that's what the police are fighting against. They don't serve to gather under some kind of sports club patronage. I am not telling you this because I want to distract you from the topic of Kosovo, but to ask you – how long will all these topics, including Kosovo, serve to say the DSS, it is the same whose work is** dominant product, what about their action plan that will be implemented when Kosovo declares independence? What happened to all those threats that we were getting ready for it a long time ago? What happened to all this and to whom is the isolation of this country that occurred during the burning of the Belgrade embassy after the "Kosovo Is Serbia" rally? What's this all about? Because there are political ideas that can only succeed in dark and wet places. These are exactly ideas that promote exactly that and such parties as the DSS. Kosovo, ladies and gentlemen, 11 years ago stopped being in Serbia's legal system. Who lost Kosovo? We heard it now. To avoid delusions, at that time 11 years ago, in March 1998, Tomislav Nikolic was elected Serbian Deputy Prime Minister at the end of 1999 as vice-president of the federal government of the SRJ. I was not in power then, but Tomislav Nikolic, Mr Dacic and similar to them. Don't let us have any misunderstandings about this today. Do not bring Serbs into the co-ordinates of the government of RS, Boris Tadic or Vuk Jeremic today, because they are in a position like our athletes. When they do something right, they admire the whole state. When they don't, then they're exposed exclusively to ugliness and fungi. Whether they will or won't have any effect on those who attack them. That's why we have to call things their names. Today we have a situation where there is still an unfavourable clerofastic organization called Face. Without a problem, he thinks it's courage to light up other people's embassies. When I say to others' embassies, let us remember that these are the people who came to our country, called by this country, accepted by this country that guarantees their safety. Who's going to answer for that? Those who burned the embassy call the heroes we all need to look up to. I am not prepared to suffer that someone who claimed to be the same building as the safe house of Ratko Mladic is telling me about how to approach the EU. I'm not ready to understand that there are any misunderstandings and that we need to justify ourselves, we are trying to get out of everything that they've been pushing us into. Since I have seen that there is a lot of God-fearing here, there is an old beautiful saying – standing in a church does not become a believer, just as standing in a garage does not become a Mercedes. About all of this, we're here to play defense in a game that's long gone. All that can end is a great victory, and that is why the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43614	Right on line, MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43615	I would ask a much harder question – which group do the people who set the assembly on fire? Those who burn down the kiosk to a large extent and respond, and those who set the congregation on fire have not yet been called to account. How can you ask someone not to start a kiosk, and you set the congregation on fire? By what logic? By the logic that you had behind you those who funded you. By what logic does someone in this country have the right to issue a map of a piece of its territory, so that they say they don't know what the children were doing and they don't know what the passport was doing? As for the SRS since 2000, everything that the DOS government has been in power to us. You have done invaluable damage to Serbia. The only thing I can tell you about Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic is that maybe he's absolutely not responsible, because he's not getting involved in his business. He's just a figure here. You're all responsible for that. As for KiM, it is now a historical question that should be seriously entered, taken into account all the facts and came up with some data when we started to lose Kim. Personally, I think that we started to lose him after 1945, after those like Berisavljevic, you know him well, who came to power and prevented everyone who had to flee before the Shiptar terror in 1941. Unfortunately, that terror was not interrupted. It was continued from 1945 to 2004. It continues today, though in a reduced volume because there are fewer Serbs there. All of them were supported by those who issue those maps whose children are playing by drawing passports and who advocate a new secession of Serbia, i.e. a new secession of its territories.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43616	National MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43617	When it comes to what Mr. Canak was saying, it's hard to replicate in many parts of that exposure, they represent a general confusion, a cacophony. However, he must react to something. When you decide to characterise political opponents, which is not clear to you without any doubt, then you would have to make sure that any bug you get from this side, of course, transferred, in terms of that word, so I would remind you of your wonderful patriotic performances in the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly building back in 2005, when we were in the Congress of Local Regional Authorities, when you spoke about the situation in Serbia, and the President of Dubrovnik, then Dubravka Shujica, had to stop and warn you to be polite, because you said that it was clerofastic. You, as such, find it appropriate to give a lecture to anyone here on what is important to that book, as you call it, which is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, to support that authority that we dispute, which your support is very happy to accept, and that, in doing so, what you say very often has nothing to do with what the declared head of the largest party of the ruling coalition here, President of the state Boris Tadic. The inability to agree on basic things between you, which is visible to everyone and to small children in Serbia, makes this thing grotesque, but not funny enough because it is, above all, sad. That you have a focus on the leaders of a political party and on one political party in Serbia, on your own persecution or someone's order, that's your problem, but you certainly forget one little logical little thing about all this. You, Mr. Canak, are now in power and all the things you spoke of in your speech, when you mourned the state of the spirit in Serbia, for 25 months you had time to influence with your colleagues to a significant extent that this poor state of the spirit changed, and everything and that the DSS had broken the state of the spirit itself before that.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43618	MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43619	I first called to report a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and then Mr. Canak mentioned me, negatively, which is why I'm entitled to a replica. So, you were supposed to react when Mr. Canak, based on one case in Novi Sad, when a dead child was stolen by a mobile phone, said it was about the state of our nation and our country. On such an isolated case, the state and nation can only be singled out by Mr. Canak, the one on which a simple tin board, written by RTS, trampled on her feet and cursed her mother Serbian. I thought he was scratching on SNS, because we're a significant political factor, so we're standing in his way, but he's hanging on to everything and miniature in this room, so he obviously wanted to cause controversy and to justify his rare appearance in this room. You know, with a stay in a church a man can become a believer, but with a rare stay among the people in this hall Mr. Canak certainly can't become a man.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43620	Gentlemen, I remind you that today's topic is more than serious, and I would ask all MPs to apply the vocabulary theme. Mr. Nenad Canak.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43621	First of all, I agree with you, Mr. Todorovic, that no one is allowed to set fire to the Assembly and that is not the question at all. Why no one answered, I can't give you an answer. I can only say one thing, if we were to withdraw the difference between the congregation and the kiosk, the difference is that this same congregation, at times when this truly inappropriate and unreasonable act of burning down the Assembly, represented the baseion of a order that was consensually assessed as a dictatorship that was very difficult to bring down. For the simple reason it wasn't possible to vote, and without stealing, as you know, do something without stealing a choice, which is what the regime then did. Kiosk belongs to a citizen whose last name was disturbed by his religious and national background. That was the reason he set himself on fire. There's this important and significant difference. You mention this about the map and passports, I won't even answer that, because it's pointless, but when you talk about this communist period where these things happened, I really can't bear responsibility for it because unlike the president of your party, I've never been in the Union of Communists. As far as you're concerned, Mr. Aligrudic, you know half the truth is a lie. It is not true that I said that the state is clerofastic, but that the state tolerates clerofastic organisations, such as the Face, which is the definition provided by the MUP to the Vojvodina Assembly in its report on extremist organisations in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It's not true that my word was taken from me. There are stenograms about it and you can check it out. As for this, in 25 months, it could change what was before, and clean Serbia after you, about 25 months later, so cleaning Augie's stables is like changing a baby's diapers, because you left behind so much evil that it would take a serious number of years and generations to change. As for this, I think Mr. Nikolic transferred it to me, about cursing the mother of the Serbian RTS board, Mr. Nikolic, I don't know if you've met, there's a fascinating instrument called Ju-tube, it's on the Internet, it's on the computer, ask yourself what it is. There's no problem in you looking at the tape of it and you'll see that I didn't curse my mother Serbian, because my mother was Serbian. I'm very careful when I express myself and I've never mentioned my mother to anyone national, but on a political basis, I'm very often. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43622	There's no one else's claim to the replica. You've made yourself clear. Mr. Ivica Dacic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43623	I also answered Mr. Chank's line. I encouraged him in my speech, reminded him that in such an unfair interpretation of the International Court of Justice, under which Kosovo has the right to independence, Vojvodina had the same constitutional and legal position in the former SFRY. I didn't expect him to mention me then, I gave him the incentive to develop that thesis, as he has done so often in his political biography, but since he mentioned that, along with Mr Nikolic, I, the authorities who lost Kosovo, was also in that government, I want to say that I was never in the state government until you arrived. For the first time, I became a minister in the transitional government of DOS, SPS and SPS. At the marking of the 20th anniversary of the SPS, I thanked you for bringing us down from power, because you pointed out that we should be better. Here we are now helping you to show a little bit that you should be better. In any case, I ask DOS representatives to stop talking to each other like this for the tenth anniversary of their existence. You all beat us all together in 2000, promising this people that you would lead some new policy, as Mr Jovanovic also spoke of. He says today in 2010 he will now seek a new policy. How many decades does this new policy take? I asked you once again, if you'll look for an alibi in every sentence in the previous government, I'll remind you that it's been 10 years. You had Kostunica before that, before Kostunica was the government of Zoran Zivkovic, I think, was the government of Zoran Djindjic, etc. I think the topic we're discussing today is far beyond these day-to-day political stings that we have toward each other. If we think that this is how we get some political points, I don't think that's what the citizens of Serbia are doing with approval in this television broadcast. I don't think the disease this society is suffering from, and this country didn't come yesterday, not from the previous government, not from Milosevic's government, not from the government at the time of Tito, and also, like Mr. Canak, I want to say that there are probably more responsible in this room, who may have voted in this same room for this 1974 Constitution. If that's how we go back in time, that's not the point of what we were talking about here today. I therefore ask all political parties not to put each other on the subject now. I could probably say a lot of things that would cause controversy, but what are we gonna do tomorrow? What are these citizens of Serbia living in Kosovo and Metohija, who are now watching this television broadcast, what are they going to conclude from what we are saying here? What's our message to them? How are we going to help them tomorrow and can we help them at all? We've got new problems now. There's Mr. Ugljanin. Do we have a problem? Don't laugh, open your eyes a little, because you live in a country where there's a problem that grows in the Raska region or Sandzak, however you like. If we think we've solved the problem by not calling it Sandzak but the Raska area, it's children's games. Now someone should come from Turkey to solve our problems here. I guess we need to solve our problems before it gets to the guns. Here, Riza Halimi is here. What are we talking about with Reese Halimi? We've been talking about this for 20 years. He well knows that Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija have never thought about essential autonomy. They speak today – we will change the north of Kosovo for Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedju etc. Now you're just talking -- they will -- they won't ever, but those are the problems we have in our present, and we're here to discuss who's guilty of what. As far as I'm concerned, those who are guilty are long gone, not only on the political scene, some of them are not even alive anymore, and Serbia should live after us and after this government. So I ask Mr. Chank that when he speaks here, it's true that I was in power before 2000, but it's true that I am now. Thanks to the SPS coalition's decision, PUPS and JS exist this government where we all sit. It's a historical truth. If nothing else, at least we might have fixed something that you think we were wrong. On that side, it's simply not politically meaningful that we now compete here with each other over who's more and who's less guilty. Are we statesmen or are we day politicians? If we're day politicians, then this is all we do here... I'm asking the DSS gentlemen to listen. I listened very carefully. You also share part of the responsibility like everyone else, because you led the government in the previous period that we supported, just as your president beat Slobodan Milosevic in the 2000 elections. With which policy you won then, and if you're leading it today, that's another question today. Where are you now all who were then, how many parties are you now and how many parties have been torn apart after that and assembled? As far as I'm concerned, it doesn't matter who was on which side, but if we have some common interest today, then it's completely politically incorrect to go back to the past now. I already said, it was easy for you when you were a Free Milosevic, he was your alibi for everything. Now let's see what we do. So, as far as I'm concerned, since it was an alibi for everything that's wrong and someone says it's because they're guilty 10 years ago, here we are, we support it, let's see how you're going to do it now, but yet you can't even bring a declaration of crimes to Srebrenica without the SPS vote. Why don't you bring your majority of the former DOS? You can't even bring the Duke's Statute without the SPS vote. Is that right? As far as I'm concerned, I'm responding to what Mr. Canak was talking about, because I have the right to act as SPS president. (President: Gentlemen of the Parliaments, please speak to me.) I have never spoken in my own word about what I think should bring us back. I even supported in the most part what Mr. Jovanovic was talking about, if you didn't understand me, which is to open our eyes and see the situation we're in. We want to go ahead looking at the mirror. That's impossible. I thank you, Mr. Chanak, for your existence, otherwise I couldn't take it this way with someone.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43624	I suggest I give my word to Mrs. Vesni Pesic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43625	Ladies and gentlemen of the People, I am advocating Article 104 of Item 2 - People's MPs are obliged to address one another with respect. I must, Madam President, remind you that you should have warned some MPs who had not done so in their previous address. Mr. Canak, I can't believe you're inexperienced. You're not young. You should know some basic things. (President: Speak to Parliament and to me. Please pass it on to Mr. Chank. Once upon a time in the Union of Communists was received by certain qualities. It wasn't enough just to fill out the access card. Obviously, Mr. Chanak either did not have that quality or did not file a request, but that was how he had to be able to see for himself in his immediate neighborhood. I'm asking a simple question to someone who advocates respect for the law, etc., to speak their mind what if someone in this room here now stood up and said that the current president of the Republic, for example, should hang on to this chandelier? Could someone here have imagined and could someone like that have any moral justification to honor anyone after that? Whether he's a political inconceivable with the President of the Republic, that's a completely different thing, but to be determined that he hangs himself, it's gentlemen coming out of civilized norms, that I don't speak legal, etc. It's just another little thing. If Mr. Canak can explain to us, let's say, his position at a gathering called "Streme Croatia". Mr. Canak and his chief Mr. Bojan Kostresh attended... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43626	You're out of time. Thank you. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic. Make it possible for Mr. Jovanovic to hear it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43627	Madam President, I've answered since Mr Dacic mentioned me several times in his performances. I think it's a very important question of responsibility and that this is certainly not a place where it can be opened in a serious way. I see a big difference between the 1990s and 2000s, and what can be described as the Doss era and the parties that are in power after the collapse of our 2000 coalition. I don't think this is a chance for anything like that. What I think is a serious problem, in fact, is the fact that you spoke several times about the need to define a new policy, with the question of what kind of policy it is. Some of your MPs here today have said what else Serbia needs to do to be understood. I think it's a fundamental problem. We came here today with the ambition to make a statement about the government's decision. It's the government who should at least propose this new policy. We can talk about party policies, and then we will come here, if we are talking about LDP, on the subject of the EU, NATO, cause of a problem that has many phenomenal forms, because today we are facing one of the most tragic ones, which is certainly the problem of Kosovo, which should get its answer in our society. Other societies gave it away, we should do it. How we do it depends on our ability to change. The LDP can create this new policy, but today we have a serious problem if the government does not have the strength to tell us what Serbia needs to do to be understood. The government has no right to not know, it can determine, and then invite citizens to the elections and in these elections allow someone else to lead this country. I think we're in a great deal of trouble if it's really such a big misunderstanding that actually those who run the country don't know what they're supposed to do today. Parliament is supposed to help, but I don't see that we are in a position to do that. The issue of Kosovo is so often banked and abused that I don't think we should do it today. In our best interest, we came here, above all, to say that anyone who wants support for a change in the political course in clearing the heritage that stems from the inherited Kosovo problem can count on LDP. For the policy of continuity there are enough votes and without LDP, and the fact that support exists, that it is unbroken despite everything we have been facing for the last two years, is actually talking about the absence of quality and that the problem will not be solved.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43628	Time. Mrs. Vesna Pesic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43629	Thank you for giving me your word. This discussion was interesting, but let's move on. Dear President of the Republic, the Honorable Minister, the President-in-Office, I wanted to point out that the LDP felt that it was really important today to discuss what we could do in the future that we no longer experience such debacles as we experienced a few days ago, precisely in view of this decision that we are talking about today, means the opinion of the International Court of Justice, which has made an extremely negative decision when it comes to Serbia. That's why I'd like to say for the first time in public that I don't agree with my colleague, Nenado Chanka. It is true that at that time, when the Kuman agreement was signed after the bombing, some other people were in power, and then the sovereignty in Kosovo was lost, when some other troops entered, and we know what it means, on Kosovo's territory. But, Mr. Chanak, no one came to power after that without wanting their legitimacy scratched on those lost battles. Everyone got back in there and abused Kosovo, and now you've used this to look at what's going on today, when we're losing another battle again, to watch and talk about what happened ten years ago. I just think that the time has come for the government to no longer legitimateize itself with negative identity and lost battles, but now that Serbia has become an independent state, let's make one positive vision of our country, let's say what its top priorities are, to review foreign policy, which is obviously not guided properly, to question how it was led, which the players have led it, and to get out of these losses which, for the first time, I must say, is completely in our direction. Why? The last time this assembly came together and talked about Kosovo, we spoke because Albanian representatives of the people brought a declaration of unilateral declaration of Kosovo's independence. We are now talking for the first time about a situation where we have completely singled out our own losses. So, no one on the outside, even opposed the other people who were supposed to be our allies, they told you, well, what do you want with that question in the UN? We forced that question, we carved the strategy, here, there's the minister who boasted about how we got through it. After two years of pumping how we're going to win this dispute on the legal ground, now it turns out that we lost this dispute on the legal ground. I read the court's decision last night until 12 o'clock in general. There's no prank. Simply, right from word to word, a decision has been made that this question that we have asked is legally not in conflict with international law. What's going on now? To avoid that and to talk about why we came here and see who was responsible, we say, now we're playing on the legal ground, let's now run to the political field. We said, well, we're not going to politically, we're not going to legally. We can't direct our own losses. We can't direct our own games that we're about to lose. This is completely our direction. We expected a serious debate about ourselves, not history, but what is happening today. Will the president take certain steps? Who were performers of this kind? I don't think the minister led this well, and his team, I'm going to say that even the chief of the negotiating team, what I read in the paper today, that doesn't look like the head of the negotiating team and that's a professional historian. He says there was pressure on the court. Well, what kind of way is that? Now that we've lost it, we're saying there was pressure on the court, and then it says it wins harder, says the Americans, the court has prescribed an American view. Oh, my God, Thaci's sitting with the Americans. Where are you sitting? Can we review and say that we didn't make a good policy with the great powers? Are we kids in elementary school that we don't know who decides the days in the world, whether they decide the most powerful forces, or whether we can decide how we think to ask not now this question, but someone else we're going to ask. Well, then even this question is being thrown out. You know, they say, where's the responsible question we haven't asked. We didn't ask that question. Now Mr. Jeremic said if we had asked that other question, about the secession, he said, it would be worse for us, and then one member of the team, I watched, I don't have to mention his name, he says, whatever question we asked would be the same outcome. Well, what did you ask at all, then, what do you ask when there's no reason to do that? So I ask that we no longer go out with these things in front of the congregation, with decisions like this, where we make fun of ourselves, and as MPs, where we are asked to confirm policy so far, instead of discussing where we are wrong and correct those mistakes, to learn about our mistakes, or the great powers to correct. To know where decisions are made. Not like naive kids to say, well, come on, we played a little bit in this field, now we're gonna go over here and say, now we're gonna run to the UN and turn this thing around. Nothing, gentlemen, you won't turn it around like that. If we keep this up, I don't think there's gonna be anything out of this question. I also suggest that what I could see in the paper, a lot of interesting things are being offered to us. I don't think we can see from these lost battles where our real chances are, and there's a lot of chances now. I see Mr. Biden called President Tadic. We can solve a lot of things now in Kosovo, from special status to other things. The recognition of Kosovo, it doesn't matter, nobody makes us do it. Let's take advantage of all the good opportunities we now have instead of going to new fights and new conflicts that are being prepared here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43630	Mr. Riza Halimi is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43631	In his presentation, Minister Dacic mentioned the issue of territorial exchanges. I just have to add that the topic was opened by a daily newspaper in Pristina on the basis of Belgrade sources, so they are called, and you are officially all aware that no official leader, in Belgrade, or in Pristina, has ever come up with public statements on the subject. I think it is unacceptable to relativise the situation in Kosovo in the 1990s in that part of Minister Dacic's statement that, in addition to the political definitions they certainly had through the history of Albanians in Kosovo, it must be said that there were indeed very serious and drastic violations of human rights in that period. Absolutely not now in retrospect, no one can deny it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43632	MP Dejan Radenkovic has a word. He's not present. ) The word is Mr Milos Aligrudić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43633	President of the state, ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here is what I am reading right now, according to this paper at least, the Beta Agency, which said: "The head of Italian diplomacy, Franco Frattini, has announced that Serbian President Boris Tadic's special envoy has presented to the EU foreign ministers the views of Serbia on the solution to Kosovo's problem, that this position seems to be peaceful and that he is opening the possibility for negotiations between Belgrade and Pristina." Reading further this news about how it was worked out at Tanjug and Beta, the impression is that the majority position of foreign ministers at today's meeting was such that the practical status issue was completely closed. Of course, the exceptions have been those that have not recognised the independence of KIM so far, that this position is now fully strengthened by the International Court of Justice's position and in the context of such an understanding is a very serious question - what did the Serbian envoy say to EU foreign ministers, which led to the conclusion that it was a very peaceful position? If it is peaceful, then it is acceptable, if it is acceptable for Frank Frattini, if it is acceptable for the Austrian Foreign Minister and others who were there, how this acceptability fits into their view and their concept of the KIM status issue. This is very interesting because if today in the Serbian Parliament we are talking at the end and the opinion of the International Court of Justice, because you have imposed this topic, and when I say immediately that I mean the personification of the Serbian authorities and of someone who is directly responsible, and that is Serbian President Boris Tadic and I, in the end, address him all the time, what kind of policy is that? Yesterday or today, in your press statements, you stressed the need for state unity or national unity in this matter, so that the further struggle to preserve Serbia's territorial integrity would be more elaborate and efficient, and in this difficult hypocrisy of this attitude is seen in the fact that you are one day before this assembly first uploaded to the Internet decision you are proposing today, and only later did MPs come to see copies of the originals discussed today. When you look at the content of this decision, which is not worth spending a lot of words because it is a complete confusion, about actually changing Serbia's state policy, it is already two and a half years at work, this change in Serbia's state policy, which was once led, and then we call for earlier resolutions and declarations of the National Assembly, which is, of course, in itself, totally opposite and extremely unacceptable. And what's worse, in a certain way, is that the decision characterises or explains to the citizens of Serbia, to the MPs, I guess you explain to yourself that the decision of the International Court of Justice, i.e. Their advisory opinion in a nutshell, how it sucks, and of course it sucks when you ask a shitty question then you get a lame answer. To the extent that your question was meaningful, what was focused on, that's the answer you got from those who were mostly not well-intentioned. And what you're selling to Serbian citizens through today's discussion or in the media, which is a hoax in the media and yesterday and today, about the fact that the International Court of Justice hasn't considered a fundamental issue, has left it aside, so there's a phenomenal opportunity for us to discuss this political issue in the UN for our benefit, it's unprecedented nonsense. Because, as I said at the beginning, speaking of Frank Frattini's statement, it is very clear to see that this mere form and this ridiculous response to the International Court of Justice is just enough ground to lose every battle in the UN with those resolutions that you stand for here today. We can't do that, at least the DSS won't accept that in any way to give you legitimacy for further upside down and moving in the wrong direction. If you have decided to fall from the third floor based on the wrong decision to seek an advisory opinion to the International Court of Justice, instead of suing countries that have recognised Kosovo's independence, you are now asking us to, in addition to being publicly burned as corpses, we can't really accept it or see developments in this way. If you think you're insinuating the story of national and state unity by scrambling MP groups around parliament and threatening them with a public court to give you support here, and they're afraid of their political position to do so, then this assembly has done something extremely wrong, first of all because it's not true. Because you have manipulated two and a half years for the citizens of Serbia and this same parliament, and today you have come here to extort parliament's decision to give you formal support for further mistreatment. Do you know what the only right way to get out of this situation is: when someone experiences such a debacle and such defeat as you and your policy have experienced before the International Court of Justice, even if they misread your question, even if they were malicious, what you asked, how, under what circumstances and who you asked, in which way you asked, it had to lead to this solution. The only way is to deviate from the functions you're holding. Instead of all of us shrinking around each other here, painfully looking at your sufferings and the troubles you have caused yourself and Serbia, the only solution for all of us is a deviation from our functions. First of all, you must leave, Mr. President, you are not here, but you will hear, by resigning as president of the state, and thus this whole strangely composed state will be torn apart. This does not mean that it should stop fighting for Serbia's interests, but after the extraordinary parliamentary elections and the extraordinary presidential elections, probably a new Serbian elite, to which citizens will give opportunities to lead this country, gather and define a minimum of something that you were unable to do, because if you were able, we would not be able to reach the basic idea of what you are doing for 25 months. And just answer this question of what special envoy Boris Tadic wanted to say to the heads of EU diplomacy, what peaceful attitudes these are, whether they are the technical negotiations between Kosovo and Metohija. If so, then it's another step in self-recognition of the secession of part of our territory, which is otherwise with various factual acts, no matter what you formally declare, so far you've done, beginning with Eulex, the border agreement, the suffering of customs and other things you've done these two and a half years. You answer that question, and when you answer it, and if you answer it honestly, you might as well step down, deprive this country of the trouble you've been causing for two and a half years.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43634	Minister Vuk Jeremic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43635	I want to remove any dilemma that may exist as a result of this information. At this point, I also said in the previous part of the debate, Serbia is consulting with all the most important international factors: Russia, China, the EU and many others in the context of the UN General Assembly's submission. Given that we aim to pass this resolution with as wide support as possible, it is a normal procedure to consult with those who have the most influence in the international community. I repeat, they are permanent members of the Security Council, but they are also EU. There is no dilemma that Serbia's resolution will be a resolution of Serbia, not someone else's, and that the goal of this resolution is to start a negotiating process that will lead to a compromise solution for the future KIM status that is not contrary to the Serbian Constitution. We also want to launch that kind of debate in the UN General Assembly, whose conclusion will be unequivocal, which is that secessionists did not have the right to unilateral secession from Serbia. It's a difficult task in the General Assembly, it's a difficult task under these circumstances. In order for the resolution to pass, it is necessary to consult, as anyone who has had the opportunity to do parliamentary work, and the UN General Assembly is a world parliament, had the opportunity to see.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43636	Mr Tomislav Nikolic is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43637	I am obliged to warn you that the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated. In fact, Mr. Nenad Canak first instructed me to handle some machines in his presentation, and then he lied about what he said on October 10th 2001, when he broke the tablet with the sign RTS, so I tried to find the news TV "B92" from October 10th 2001. It says on the screen of the New Sad First Channel at midnight that TV Novi Sad came out of the RTS system. It all began when the president of the Vojvodina Assembly Nenad Canak ordered on Tuesday that the TV Novi Sad remove the RTS sign, in protest over the board's decision. Canak then broke the RTS board at the entrance to TV Novi Sad in front of the cameras, saying he would no longer allow Belgrade to step on Vojvodina. "This garbage will no longer stand here and this should have been done on October 5th last year," he said as he broke a board with an RTS sign. So, "Pu, "J" your mother. "We have suffered so far to be insulted by all these bastards who have left us an inheritance after the occupation they have made for us. This is the sign that killed the Duke's children in Vukovar. This is a sign under which the shame of this country began and ended. Where were all those geniuses on October 5th last year when we could all die here? Where were they when they were supposed to fight? They were gone. Now they're thinking of Belgrade plots to step on Vojvodina. Now, gentlemen, it won't be possible," said Canak. So much for you, Mr. Canak.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43638	You cannot address another MP, please, but you can address Parliament and the chairman. Mr. Milos Aligrudic is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. There's no basis for replication, there was an answer. First the Rules of Procedure, then the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43639	Article 104. When it comes to dignified conduct, you know, violation of dignity seems not only ugly words, expressions, raising tones, etc., but in some ways it can also be a quality of replication. If you think, Mr. Minister, I'm speaking to the chairman about what Mr. Minister said, that what's read contains any illogicality, then you can't do anything about the previous speaker, explaining things in a way like it's a wall in front of you, not a living man with whom you're lying. This means, in practice, if someone tells you that there is a special envoy for Serbian President Boris Tadic who talks to EU heads of diplomacy and that Frank Frattini's position has come out of that meeting, who says there have been peaceable tones regarding the decision of the International Court of Justice, the position of Serbia in relation to Kosovo and the possibility of having negotiations between Serbia and Kosovo, what does this have to do with the UN General Assembly? How do you think you get any UN resolution on the basis of which it is very clear in the statement that I cannot touch the status? So status is cemented by the decisions of the International Court of Justice, on the one hand. What, then, is the Serbian special envoy talking to Frattini and the others? That was the question, not how you're going to explain to us now how you're going to try to get to the right majority, so the negotiations have to be done. That's what anyone would do about what you're talking about. This question is very specific about the sink you're pushing us into. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43640	Mr. Nenad Canak has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43641	I really don't understand what this is about. It was only, Mr. Nikolic, that I replicated that I had never cursed anyone in my life, Serbian, Hungarian, Russian, American, or any other mother on a national basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43642	No more replicas of any kind. Please, Mr. Nikolic, this was an explanation. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43643	I'd like him to explain to me Mr. Canak - was it just some lemon cursing his mother or some raw material for the production of tables? That plate said RTS. Mr. Canak, you've cursed your mother to everyone who didn't come from Vojvodina that day. I don't know what they're called, which is their nationality, but you're cursing your mother to us because it's written on the board – RTS. I read that from this text, and you wash as long as you want. I didn't ask you about your relationship with drug dealers and others. It's between us.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43644	The word has the People's MP Stojanka Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43645	I address Mr. President, respected members of the government, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the opinion of the International Court of Justice that the declared declaration does not violate international law and is not in conflict with Resolution 1244 is an extremely unfavourable and difficult decision that has been struck by Serbia, Serbia's diplomacy, and especially by Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, as well as others who recognise the institutions of the Serbian state. Now that the proposal for a new resolution to be addressed to the UN General Assembly, which needs to reach a binding conclusion, it is necessary to measure well and to think about not having another failure. It is known that since the arrival of the international forces and adoption of Resolution 1244 in Kosovo, there is an impression that Serbia does not have a clear strategy to address Kosovo and Metohija's problems. We've been saying what we don't want for years, but we don't know what we want or what we want, and we can't. Albanians always knew what they wanted, back in Vienna, while our authorities offered essential autonomy, which is not clear to anyone today. The difficult situation of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, imperceptibility, unemployment, social uncertainty, apathy and lack of idealessness, the growing weakness of Serbian institutions, the growing sight of them is pointing to Kosovo institutions, and it is happening, for example, to make more than 65% of Serbs, party members, both of the authorities and opposition in Partesh's elections. Belgrade must wonder – why do Serbs in Kosovo go to Kosovo's elections? Why do Serbs take double passports and other Kosovo documents? Can Belgrade provide them with peace, work, economic security, stability and normal life? The life of a worthy man. To make life a life. I think so. By creating economic sovereignty in Kosovo, by investing more financially, by strengthening Serbian institutions, both south and north of Ibra, the Serbian people must remain on this territory, because the people are guarding territory. If there's no people, there's no territory. The common thing is that all political entities in the northern part of KIM are unique in the belief that neither the north nor the dream will and does not want to integrate into Kosovo institutions. It is therefore necessary to seriously consider opening a basic court in Kosovo Mitrovica, which would be tried under Serbian law, with the capacity of the Serbian judiciary, as well as the presence of EULEX judges and EULEX prosecutors. There are mechanisms for co-operation between the Kosovo Police Service and the Court, and it was quite possible and feasible to bring those who violate the law, and since the Penalty Support Office exists in Kosovo Mitrovica, all of these can be implemented. In the proposed point 4. The decisions, which say it is necessary to reach a lasting, sustainable and mutually acceptable solution for KIM through peaceful negotiations, in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which will allow the historic reconciliation of the Serbian and Albanian people, as well as peace and stability of the region, raise the following question – how do they bring Albanians to the negotiating table, negotiate Kosovo's final status if known, and especially after this stated opinion of the International Court of Justice, that they believe that Kosovo's status is resolved for them and that they can only discuss technical issues? To reach a compromise solution that would satisfy both sides, which would bring lasting peace and stability across the region, the government of the Republic of Serbia needs to come up with a new proposal, with such a strategy that would be acceptable to both sides and contribute to a peaceful solution. Is Belgrade ready for that? Will the resolution that Belgrade will submit to the UN General Assembly be fully accepted and binding for the Albanian side, to sit at the negotiating table and what will happen if the resolution is not accepted or amended in any other form? Is there a serious assessment that we will have a majority for the resolution at that session of the UN General Assembly? These are all questions we need in advance to have an answer. Since several years ago in the public of Serbian politics, there is always talk of a compromise solution that will bring lasting peace and stability, based on my knowledge from the people of KIM, where I come from, this would mean - anywhere where the majority Serb and non-Albanian population figure, there must be clear authority and the institutions of the Republic of Serbia, and the protection of Serbian historical and cultural heritage must be a priority. Every other solution, I see as one-sided, which in any case does not contribute to peace and stability. What do we do next? To take as much diplomatic effort as possible towards creating conditions for new negotiations as well as to synchronise and strengthen internal policy on the ground, so that we can get to the finish line as soon as possible, because we are running out of time. Finally, in order to reach a common ultimate goal, we must be strong and organized, firmly defined for peace, without division and without conflict between ourselves. It's the only way we can win the battle for our attitudes. We must never be enemies to ourselves in history ever again.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43646	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43647	Mr. President, Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, the Honorable President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, how important this issue we are discussing today is just the fact that the President is present here today and that the almost complete government is present. It was similar in 2008, when the assembly adopted a resolution, namely a decision to declare the Kosovo Assembly's zero declaration of independence, as well as any other decisions by Kosovo's provisional authorities. That decision then gave the government the authority and support to take all measures to preserve the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. It's been two years. During that time, the institutions of Serbia were weakening and disappearing in the KIM territory, and in that, I say, the north part, where there was no need for that. The government's response was weak and soft to various incidents, so we all thought that everything was given, when it comes to KIM, to this map, the advisory opinion of SMEs. However, during this period, we witnessed the government's diplomatic activity, particularly the foreign minister, the president of the Republic to represent Serbia's interest in the UN, the EU, as well as in various bilateral meetings. I say, we were witnesses because we weren't actors. We mainly received knowledge of these activities from public information. Neither the government nor the president informed us about the ongoing negotiations and what problems they face in these negotiations. Now that we've reached the wall, we're again asked for blank support. All of us in this room have the responsibility for the situation in the Republic, but our responsibility is certainly not the same. As MPs, we are responsible for the decisions we have made in this room. Those who directly participated in the negotiations as actors with an international factor are responsible for the results they achieved at the time. The very beginning of our debate today shows that the ruling majority seeking consensus, or unity on this very important issue, as it does regularly, has not sufficiently respected us as an opposition. At the beginning of the debate, one opposition MP suggested that this important issue be discussed in a double-long time, as is otherwise provided for by the Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The ruling majority, however, had smoothly rejected it. Is there any other more important question than this question that today is on the agenda, which deserves to be discussed in double the length of time? Gentlemen, how can you seek unity without almost ever showing understanding of the proposals coming from opposition parties? We know that unity is always needed, especially in a situation like this. But if through this decision we give you support, we amnesty for many of the mistakes that have been made and made in the country's internal and foreign policies. Is it just enough to say in front of this assembly and the citizens of Serbia – I accept responsibility for our foreign policy's failure in the defence of KIM and that it all ends? Personally the same actors who brought us into this state of defeat and despair want to move on, continue to represent us and ask us for support for the same. If we give you support, we amnesty all your mistakes and failures in the past and take responsibility for what you will do in the future. All of us in this room in the last two months through public information funds, as well as citizens of Serbia, have been deceived about how negotiations are going in The Hague. Through our press, it was said that we were standing well, even said that the ratio was eight to seven, and after the resignation of the International Court of Justice chairman, that it was about seven to seven, and it was said that the decision would not be supported or would not be in favour of any party, so that each party would be able to interpret the decision as it suits it. And what did we get in the end? We got a very clear and explicit decision. We still, gentlemen, in a fresh memory of the debate on the Srebrenica Declaration adopted by this parliament on the initiative of the president and on a proposal from the government. On one occasion, the president declared that he was not under any pressure in connection with the declaration. The professional public suggested that we should bring in one declaration of all crimes in the former SFRY space. All opposition parliamentary groups made proposals for their declarations, but they were not even discussed. The Serbian Progressive Party has submitted an acceptable proposal for a declaration of condemnation of all crimes, but it has also been ignored by the ruling majority and the government. The very fact that the declaration was adopted with only 127 votes and that it barely slipped through this parliament speaks enough about it. Just two days after the adoption of that declaration at the College of Presidents of the Assembly, a new declaration on the conviction of crimes against Serbian citizens was offered, especially to members of the Serb people. Here, for months already, this parliament has been unable to adopt a declaration of conviction committed against Serbian citizens and against its own people. What is it, gentlemen, is it? Are we such masochists as to treat ourselves, or our own people? Gentlemen, I guess it should be clear to everyone in Serbia today that we have taken that first wrong step, and then all the other steps we have taken afterwards are wrong. I'm afraid even in this case we don't take the wrong step, because then everything else on this important issue can be wrong. Personally, I don't think we can and we're not invited to assess the International Court of Justice's opinion. Therefore, the name of this document itself, that is, this decision should change. I don't think that's serious. In doing so, I know that there are personal emotions among all of us regarding this decision, but we still have to put them aside. The basic question is – what next? We know he has to react quickly, but that doesn't mean he has to react quickly. I personally expect the president of Serbia to plead on this matter. Some of what he's going to do we've learned from the press, but it's important that here in the Assembly let us know what he's been trying to do in the past, what he's done, but what he's going to do these days. What if we reach a consensus in the Assembly, if we show the unity you're looking for. Can we solve this issue ourselves? The foreign minister told us a few minutes ago that some consultations were under way. It's important that we know which important and powerful countries will stand behind us. It's not enough that we know which countries will support us in the United Nations. Have we done enough to lobby, apart from us and some other countries, bilaterally in contact with those 50 or 57 countries, so that this avalanche of recognition that you spoke of at the beginning of today's debate does not occur. If we support the Government today, that it can submit a resolution to the General Assembly of the United Nations, without adopting that resolution previously in the Serbian Parliament, then we are again giving blanco support to the Government, and we are taking responsibility on ourselves. Also, I noticed that while there was no time for a deeper analysis of this decision, a number of opposition parties have made amendments to this proposal for a decision by the government of the Republic of Serbia. The government should certainly declare itself under these amendments, as this will also depend on the relationship of MPs, especially MPs of the opposition to this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43648	The People's MP, Professor. Dragoljub Micunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43649	Mr. President, Prime Minister, ministers, chairman, 20 years ago, the first debate in the multi-party assembly concerned Kosovo in the following way -- was the verification of the mandate, Albanians did not want to go to the elections, were the majority elections, and then it was said that in the second round it did not matter how much anyone gets, so many with 90 votes became MPs in the district of 40,000 voters. The first word I used in parliament was – I said it would not be convenient for someone with 90 votes to become an MP, but it would be good to introduce talks with Albanians under which conditions they would vote. That was the first time I got a napkin of patriotic powers that I was a traitor, Brankovic, that I liked Albanians more than Serbs and all the things I'd heard for years from many patriots, who were all that time without anything, because the bullet didn't want them in that great fight for Kosovo. But I only mention this because of how long this has been going on. Then there was a problem in which we would keep the territory without the population. That was the question. There were various suggestions. We shoot, they run away, etc. There was a proposal, which was subsequently supported by DS MPs, Djindjic and others, to try new negotiations, so that we should try to integrate them and that they have their own parties and enter parliament, government, etc., because it seemed to us that this was the best way to preserve territory if the population were integrated. That process, of course, failed. It's been nice to have 30 seats more, and since then, there's been a lot of problems. I wouldn't want to remind you of what was going on. The goal of my speech is completely different, to turn to the future. I remember the SRJ Prime Minister Mr Bulatovic submitted the exposés here, and on that occasion he told us that we had won NATO, that we had preserved our sovereignty and our integrity and that it was one big victory. You have the stenographic notes, I said to him, "Mr. President, when a little child is afraid, he puts his hand on his eyes and believes that what he doesn't see doesn't exist. You have no sovereignty there, no integrity. If you did, you'd go to Pristina and then our border guards would keep the border to Albania and Kosovo. So make peace with that fact that things are different, not what you'd like them to look like. "Later things went as they went, I wouldn't remind you. But we have a problem here now. We went into one battle, we warmed up the ambitions that we could do it, of course, by losing the military battle, because we couldn't even win it against NATO, against the UN. That was for sure. We moved on to a peaceful process that produced results, we settled the situation in southern Serbia, around the security zone, and we set out to address the problem peacefully with diplomatic means. Then we had little hope that, with great effort and great effort from the President of the Republic and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, we would hesitate many countries that this issue could be extremely important and so there was a vote where most of them said – we will address the International Court of Justice. We have been asked whether one declaration of independence can be treated as an act contrary to international law. We got the answer that's not the case. Now let's move on. For me, a big question arises – whether we will reheat optimism without a big cover or whether we will approach this problem more realistically and peacefully. Things aren't lost if we don't just fix for certain words. What we don't seem to understand here is enough, in our entire region, that things change much faster than we see or want to see. The concepts change, and we're not able to adapt to them with new behavior. Nationalism here in the 19th century, as in Europe, Germany, Italy and we had a positive notion of democratic liberation of people who were under alien slavery, so it was young Germany, so it was young Italy, so it was young Serbian and it was a significant process. However, I have the impression that our intelligence, politicians, have failed to transform their national programme in a timely manner and have not noticed that, especially after World War II, nationalism has linked itself to one completely negative value, especially after experience with fascism and all others, but has continued many national stories, myths, etc., as if it were the most crucial. The other thing happened with the notion of sovereignty. Once when national states were created, it was a 19th century thing as a major ideal, don't interfere with other countries, you're sovereign in a particular state. Today the situation is different. This sovereignty in many ways has been violated by many international agreements and trends of development, not only towards the creation of those independent states where everyone will be the boss, as well as the creation of some general principles, the general principles on which societies will exist, including these European societies, and our region. It's one obstacle, I think, that we have such a firm fixation and that they decide everything. Of course, it's a matter of sovereignty that we don't have here and of course it's an important integrity, which we also don't have. That's certainly important, but important Sue other things. There's no good territory without a good life for the citizens, the old political truth. Our task should be to create here and everywhere in our environment, where our citizens live, good conditions for life. Let's not underestimate that: or all or nothing, if we can't talk about status, we'll never talk about anything. Of course, we have avoided, with the right, those contacts, so as not to have an indirect confession, but it must not be our permanent policy. We will live here as neighbors with all those people who live here in other circumstances. We don't know, the speed is much higher in changing, what Europe's configuration will look like, what the borders in Europe will mean. We saw today that some areas, e.g. Austria and France want to join Austria. People go where life looks better, where borders aren't what determines their rights to people. Laws become universal, legislation applies everywhere, the European Court of Justice applies to everyone. Therefore, the border situation is difficult. Of course, this means that others respect such principles. We recently had a report, which was later converted into a resolution on the state of human rights in Kosovo. The report was defeated by the human rights situation in Kosovo. Many have wondered – can it be a state, if they treat their citizens this way, how will they treat minorities? So there's one criterion about what you can do and what you can't do. That should be a very significant factor. Of course, we have many and many rights and interests in Kosovo, we must not so easily ignore them, primarily people and their lives, then property, huge, and apartments, and investments, cultural monuments. So, there are a lot of things that are important to us, and we should put that on, we have managed to get some amendments to this in the report, that Serbia has both rights and interests in Kosovo. How will things continue to develop? We have no choice but to start with that opinion and address the court, to bring this process to an end and try to be a debate in the UN. What's important in this case, we need to make a good assessment of not entering a confrontation that would mean our different defeat. So I'm saying that our diplomacy goes both ways and in this direction that we want this resolution, which we want to propose, to re-form, but also to win supporters for it and, eventually, coauthors or partners, because that way the whole thing would develop through a debate that is favourable to us, not to find ourselves again in some isolated thing. Since I have experience of slow or poor learning, and there are these delusions about learning, whether people learn anything from experience, and that proverb recited by mother studiorum est, that repeating mother science, would mean that repeaters are the best students, but that's not the case. In the end, to get out of a tense debate, let me have a joke, a little joke. When Mujo and Haso watch a comedy where Chaplin goes around the tree and Mujo says, "Let's bet 100 dinars that this one will hit a tree." This guy hits a tree, and now Haso loses and he pays him. They go on and say "Mojo" -- listen, Haso, you're my old friend, it's not nice to take 100 dinars, I've watched it twice, you're not in an equal position, I bet because I've watched it twice. This one thanks - you are a buddy, you are a man. He goes a little further, and then he hesitates and says, "Listen, I have to open my soul, I've seen it, I've seen it, I've seen it, I've seen it four times, but I'm counting on everything he'll learn the corner." The problem is whether you can learn or are constantly expected to learn something from it. I appeal to the MPs not to spread this debate into others, we have opportunities, thank God, we see ourselves and the duration of our sessions, that we still bind the debate to seek what are the best opportunities to get out of this, and to create little optimism for the citizens that everything has not failed because we have lost somewhere in some vote now, because the court has said otherwise, or it looks one way or another, rather than having confidence in themselves, in their own strength and to turn to their own affairs. It is very indicative that citizens view this with much more calmness than it does in congregations. They understand that life is hard, that we have big problems, that we are both lonely and hard to live, that somehow we have to find a way to turn to our problems. If our debate starts in that sense, if someone suggested something that would be valid, it would be very nice. We've heard a lot of criticism, both justified and unwarranted, but we don't have innovative capacities. I haven't heard a single sound proposal that read -- this is how we get it, the thing is done. It's easy to criticise, of course, it's a comfortable position, but it would be good if we had positive projects as well what it's good to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43650	I thank Professor Micunovic and I give my word to MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43651	Dear ladies and gentlemen, accepting the thought of defeat means being defeated. The SRS, and this was taught by its president, Dr Vojislav Seselj, and our president, does not accept that. We do not accept and claim that Serbia is not the property of some politician, so let him do whatever he wants. Serbia, Serbian countries, the Serbian identity represents our heritage and what we should leave behind for future generations. Doing bad or not good is not a reason for us to become like each other or for us to do nothing. It's not a reason, but it is an excuse for some whose choice is wrong. Let's try to get Serbia back on the national path responsible. We want it and maybe today no other word can be as strong as KIM, because each other can leave some number of people indifferent. Kim certainly can't. On the one hand, it is a sacred country for the Serbian people, and on the other hand the promised country for Albanians to the KIM. Today, we have a situation that is stronger in the right of those who are promised land than those for whom it is sacred land. There could be a statement here that KIM is an emotional issue, we claim it is not, it is a historical issue, because it should be reminded that in the 13th and 15th centuries Kosovo and Metohija were very often the headquarters of the Serbian country. KIM is also the present, because if that were not the case, they would not have been determined to fight to preserve KIM within the Serbian state, they would not have brought and supported the Constitution. I'm talking about members of the SRS. For us, the thought of defeat must never be present, and while there is a single Serb, while there is no Serbian radical, we will fight for such a question. KIM is also the future for Serbia and the Serbian people. There's a lot of reasons for that to happen. This is not a problem for this president and this government, because if only it were just this government and this president, we would most kindly ask you, all of you in the first and second order and Mr Tadic to resign, because you have missed a lot of economic issues, which were not an inheritance, to make for the citizens of Serbia, including the citizens of KIM, to have a better and more certain future. I'm insecure about Minister Jeremic. I thought he was a young man. Sometimes the members of the SRS looked with sympathy at what he was doing and how he represented Serbia's interests, but when he offered a certain person a missionary role and a task, then we express our doubts about his seriousness in the conduct of foreign policy. Maybe it's a mistake, but a man in that place would have to be more careful. One MP, who was a part-authorised representative of a parliamentary group, was heard -- the government headed by President Tadic. No, it's not a lapus. There are some values here. Individual positions are being strengthened, and the institution's positions are being choked. When international factors see it working here in Serbia, they feel with full right that the International Court of Justice can turn into a political body, just as the UN tribunal is. Just as the UN tribunal has participated only in Serbs, the International Court of Justice has made a political decision, not a legal decision. What kind of messages did we from Serbia, the government and President Tadic send about the expected decision? Is there more motive, Mr. Tadic, for you personally and for all members of this government than to fight for the preservation of KIM? There is no question here that the government can find guilty of what Serbs are, above all, at KIM, as well as an attempt to take part of the territory in this situation? Whose responsibility is that, and what governments? It is known that there has been this problem for many years and it is no longer important for you, and this is a great motive for your almost ten-year rule as president of the Serbian state, to leave behind the resolved question of KIM and members of the SRS are ready to contribute. We could hear some statements here, and perhaps some of those present in this room, unfortunately, expected that the International Court of Justice would explicitly say that KIM has the right to secession. If we fought Osmanli to gain independence, if during the world wars we were killed to preserve it, why do Albanians today have no right to do so? The answer is clear, they have no reason to kidnap others. Kosovo and Metohija are Serbia and are Serbian. Albanians have the right to live in that territory as all other citizens, with respect to the Constitution, above all, and other laws passed by this parliament. Very often, certain politicians and Serbian officials, both here and when representing Serbia in official international bodies, use the term "independence", and the term "secession" must be exclusively used, because secession is separatism, separation, apostasy. Ahtisaari's 2007 plan affirmed supervised secession and it was not only supervised by Albanians, it was supervised and organised primarily by EU member states and the United States. The SRS is ready to provide support in a serious and up to the end of the struggle to preserve the integrity of the Republic of Serbia, but we advise you that we have one condition. We've submitted a number of amendments. They are not a condition, but our condition is to suspend any co-operation with the EU. Policy for Europe's Serbia has been defeated. Although someone claimed that she was affirmed here, that she had had her peak, I responsibly claim that she was defeated. How? Why did you not seek support from EU member states for the International Court of Justice to make a different decision rather than what it has now made? This is proof that the policy for European Serbia has been defeated and we cannot keep turning and saying that Serbia has no alternative and trying to become a member of a non-recognition community practically takes 15% of Serbia's territory. We are in favour of co-operation on the economic plan, in trade, in any other country where possible, under equal conditions and with 22 EU member states, which have recognised the secession of Kosovo and Metohija, but we are not in favour of entering such a community. We have other sources and other alternatives. And at one point when you became highly aware that the EU does not have the same treatment for all candidates and for all the countries that are to enter the EU, then you started to talk that it exists next to two pillars, alongside the US and the EU, and the third and fourth pillars. The third and fourth pillars seem to have no alternative, and this is serious co-operation on both economic, technical and military terms, above all, with Russia, China, Brazil, India and other countries, where gross national income is growing at a higher speed and greater progress than with the US with EU member states. It's time for you, Mr. Tadic, and for this government to try to solve this problem. We know that on the third Tuesday of September, the General Assembly will try to resolve this issue. You must be much more active and tell the citizens of Serbia the truth. The problem is hard, but we can't give up on him and we won't give up on him. The EU's resignation was finally imposed by such a decision by the International Court of Justice, as if that were not the case, a completely different decision would have been made. I will not, as Professor Micunovic, tell you at the end of my presentation about Husa and Hasa, not that I mind those names, but that in this House today perhaps you should be joking. I want to invite you to meet me in Pristina, in Pecko Patriarchia, in Gracanica, in the High Decans. If you think so, the support of the SRS for fighting for the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija within the Republic of Serbia will not be left behind.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43652	Minister Bogdanovic, he has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43653	Madam President, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the International Court of Justice has delivered a political opinion. Not getting into the essence of the problem, he is a conscious question of the status of the southern Serbian province from a legal return to the political field. What we must always consider, the court has not recognised Kosovo Albanians' right to self-determination. This policyisation of rights and an attempt to push through an advisory opinion is not a political compromise that is a defeat of Serbia. On the political plan, it creates a dangerous precedent, which will have far-reaching consequences and burst many hotspots around the world. For us now, the most important thing is to continue the political fight for the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija within the constitutional borders of the Republic of Serbia. The cornerstone of this struggle lies right on the territory of our southern Serbian province. The stone is the foundation of Serbs, who remain on their centuries-old hearths. Our fight on the political and diplomatic agenda can only continue if the Serb community in Kosovo and Metohija is complex and strong to resist all the temptations that await it. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it's more important today than ever to show everyone that in such a difficult time and how we can be together. There is a big challenge ahead of Serbia. We must find the strength to put all political disagreements behind us and show that we can agree and make a decision in this high house today that we will clearly tell the whole world, and more importantly, to our countrymen in Kosovo and Metohija, that Serbia will never give up fighting for its Serbian southern province. The International Court of Justice's advisory opinion, however legally non-binding, will in fact give Albanians and those behind them wind in the back to try in any way to establish power throughout the province's territory. All the eyes of the Kosovo Serbs are now against this home, to their National Assembly. We are the ones who today must give them the strength to endure in their hearths. Serbs from Kosovo have been through many trials and can endure much more, but they must surely know that their state of Serbia is behind them. We need to send a clear message today that that is the case. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it was never clearer to agree than now. Our past, but even before our future and the future of our children, it obliges us to behave responsibly today and to be aware of the moment we are in. We must continue our fight to preserve sovereignty over our southern province. First of all, we must do everything to economically strengthen all Serbian environments in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, to give those who live there a chance of survival, and help those who are exiled to return to their centuries-old hearths of Kosovo and Metohija. Believe me, I'm not saying this as a minister as a member of the government who came here to convince parliament to pass some law. I am speaking to you as a Serbian citizen living in Cosmet, whose family lives in Cosmet, whose children live in Cosmet and who will never give up Kosovo. Speaking as someone who comes from the field, I understand that during the difficult period that awaits us our struggle will have to be fought on two levels. One level is international and my colleagues have already said enough about it. On the second level for us, on the ground, our goal is to preserve peace and stability. With no move to make it difficult for Serbs and other non-Albanians anyway. Of course, let's not let anyone, under any of the results of their opinion, try to change the situation on the ground at our expense. To be more specific, we understand that now it's the right thing to do. That is why it will be necessary to endure and defend ourselves, because without it there will be no negotiation process. I appeal once again to try to rise above all our party disputes and disagreements and to confirm or specify, through dialogue and criticism, at least a common minimum of follow-up to Kosovo and Metohija, which would give clear guidance to this and to any future government in Serbia for further action. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43654	Ambassador Smiljana Milisavljevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43655	Dear President of the Republic, Prime Minister, honourable ministers, National Assembly presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Serbia, there has been no more important state issue than Kosovo and Metohija for a long time, and unfortunately and fortunately. Unfortunately, what has come to Kosovo being a difficult problem on the international agenda, fortunately for us Serbs and non-Albanians from Kosovo, as we say down there, is that we are not released down the water. The situation in which Serbia is located is not easy, but there is no place for defetism. Therefore, the next period should act with caution, intelligence, and unity. Wide support is needed for both citizens and all parliamentary parties. As I live in Kosovo and Metohija, I must convey the reactions and fears of the Serb community. More than ever, Serbs are looking and facing the queen. So please choose carefully the messages you send from the congregation. The people are confused about the dissonant tones sent from here. It is necessary that parliamentary parties stop using Kosovo for demagogue purposes and show responsibility to people who care for their own existence. We've received an advisory opinion from the International Court of Justice in The Hague. Gentlemen, let's look at the facts. The court refused to discuss secession and thus left room for further interpretations of international law standards. What's important is that citizens know that the court did not support the secession, as it looks to the laymen, but was fenced to a purely technical question, which tells me that in our hands are solid arguments. So sovereignty versus secession, right against force, diplomatic struggle versus pressure. If the court had approved a secession, even in indications, it would have created suitable ground for the birth of a new international order and for changing the most important postulates on which international law rests. Our foreign policy is about confirming a key goal, which is to preserve Serbia's sovereignty and territorial integrity. It is our obligation to focus all political and diplomatic capacities on adopting a new resolution before the UN. The government's policy should not change. It must remain state-of-the-art, but to prove that the substance that has been avoided or silenced this time is not in accordance with international law. Our policy protects not only our own sovereignty, but our sovereignty as a postulate, which means that we protect sovereignty and other countries, which is a good argument for community and alliance. Our attention must now be focused on countries that have not recognised Kosovo. We have to give strong enough arguments not to succumb to pressures. We have had our chance these days and through the media, including today in parliament, to hear the heavy accusations of our opposition for incompetence both the Government and the President of the Republic. Gentlemen, you missed your target. You're not hitting on the government and the President of the Republic today, I don't know if you're aware of that, but you're hitting on Serbia. It's immoral that you're fighting for political points right now. Today you lectured us, asked for responsibility and resignations, and imagine you left us with Kosovo as a problem. We are obviously to blame for doing everything and continuing to fight for Kosovo and Metohija. I really have the impression that you want us to give up Kosovo, so that you can come to power in peace. Indeed, it is hypocritical to dispute the efforts of our diplomacy in order to achieve a set of policies. The government is at least to blame for the difficult situation in Kosovo and Metohija, and the most it does is to change the situation. Gentlemen, fighting for Kosovo and Metohija is neither easy nor short. It didn't start yesterday, and it won't end tomorrow. We're fighting on multiple fronts. We inherited it. Let us together make this fight end in line with the state interests and for the benefit of both sides, and thus solve the problem for the offspring. We need unity today. Politics and our overall relationship with Kosovo and Metohija should indeed be the point of gathering that we agree on, not about which we conflict and waste energy. I repeat, the battle is yet to come. It's going to be difficult, it's going to be historic, and that's why it requires seriousness. That is why I call on all MPs, especially from the opposition order, to recognize the historic moment in which Serbia is located. There are things that are above daily politics, above party interests. Show maturity and responsibility and vote for the proposed decision. Serbs and non-Albanians from Kosovo and Metohija expect it from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43656	National MP Miroslav Markicevic. Your task force has three minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43657	Your Honor, I think it's three minutes and 20 seconds, but it doesn't matter. Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Ministers and Prime Minister and all the respected citizens of Serbia who are watching this transmission, today we have established such a unity that the ruling majority representatives have not allowed us to talk twice about such an important topic, for the Serbs most important, and I will only have three minutes. Since I see Mr. President preparing for the final word, perhaps my questions and thoughts will trigger his attention, and I think what I'm about to ask will be a lot of citizens' interest in answering these questions. I'd also ask Mr. Prime Minister, since the government is in charge of foreign policy under the constitution, but I don't think he's going to be involved in the debate today. I would ask Mr. Vuk Jeremic a lot of questions, but I admit that I may have overcome emotions, since he is from my hometown, and I think that today with most of the MPs, especially with opposition MPs, I do not think that emotions have prevailed, even if the representatives of the opposition here today have behaved more maturely and more responsibly, according to this subject. Mr. President, does any feeling deceive me or do we talk about Serbia today, rather than Kosovo and Metohija? Do we talk today, July 26th, 2010 about the survival of Serbia? I don't want to use the "Kosovo is Serbia" and "Without Kosovo there is no Serbia", but I do wonder if your children and my children, for which every parent fights, will live better and better in their lives. Is that today's theme? Is it perhaps a topic where they will live and that we no longer listen that borders are not important, when each of us needs as a citizen to bring a document to build a garage? So the boundaries are important. What I want to ask you, and you will assess whether you can tell the citizens of Serbia, I have been invited always to ask specifically, it may be painful, if Bajram Rexhepi achieves his intention, now there are some legal options for it, after the International Court of Justice's opinion and enters with some of his troops into northern Kosovo, will you act as commander-in-chief as I think you should react and how I want to believe here today, look you in the eyes, that you will react? So will our army enter northern Kosovo to protect Serbs in Kosovo?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43658	Ambassador Srdjan Milivojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43659	Dear Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, above all respected citizens of Serbia, I am Srdjan Milivojevic, a member of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, and I come from Kruševac, from the same city from which in 1389, Prince Lazar set off the path of Kosovo. In the same town of Krusevec and today there is a monument to Kosovo heroes. It was done by Djordje Jovanovic, one of our well-known knights, and at the top of the monument is the best representation of Serbia's situation since Kosovo's 1389 colour. Bosko Jugovic holds a broken sword with his right hand, and with his left hand, the bow-baptizer teaches a winged villa as a symbol of fighting for Kosovo and Metohija. Today, many people in Serbia say that Djordje Jovanovic, making the monument, presented the best possible Serbian epic in which Serb generations were raised. Others say the epic has been translated into a myth, and it is time that between a mythomanic, war-broken Serbia, and a Serbia who knows how to learn its true values, we make a bed that surrounds the tower in Krusevec. The third say, you know, the failed nations are the peoples whose history is repeated. I belong to that political group that says: we remember the past, we don't forget the heroes who created this past, but we look to the future and we create the future. I can use a lot of rights today in this room to ask many if you remember the White Church, is there a Gracanica, whose sheep in the port monastery of Devich, whose child swings in the cradle of the heart? Would it be better for me to ask that question and would it be worse or better for those who know the answer to that question? He won't. It's not time to look into the past. It's time to look into the future. It's not time to think about emotions and instincts, it's time to think sober, but resolutely. It is time, looking to the future, to remember the words of St. Patriarch Paul, who says, "If you do not know who you should look up to, look up to your enemies, each day they are more and more complicated, and every day we are less and more contentious." If we look at it that way and think about it that way, let's remind ourselves that we belong to that people who have unwavering faith in the ultimate victory of good. As a member of the Resistance and as a member of the DS, I have never lost faith in the ultimate victory of good. As an Orthodox Christian, I believe in a much fairer court, but until we come to that court, we must fight for our Kosovo in front of the International Court. Indeed, she stands the bust goddess of Justice before this International Court of Justice, and she has a bond over her eyes, and a sword of justice, and she has a tas, but if she overcomes the burden of injustice, what is it for us in Serbia to do? Should we stick our heads in the sand and say, "These are the circumstances, we will return the term to the people, we are afraid of what awaits us?" Or shall we say, "No, we will not be left to believe in the ultimate victory of good, and we will strive for the once bare-handed, once with the sword of justice, to walk with the shield of salvation into the encounter of injustice." Boris Tadic, the president of the Republic, and Vuk Jeremic, foreign minister, often step into an unfair meeting with a burden that is not theirs. It is not a Kosovo problem, the problem of this government, it is a problem of many other governments, but it is a burden that burdens us and that we carry on our shoulders that you and your colleagues who throw away should warn you, and that when you step in front of a mirror what part of that burden you and your policy have loaded on your shoulders I will tell you something that I want to finish - when we are in this room in 1974, not this assembly of parliament, nor MPs, adopted the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and in 1974, at the end of the adoption of that Constitution, chairing it – you know, one MP is against. And I'll tell you, that MP got up and said, "My name is Radenko Mandic from Villaša and he's not an MP, that's Radenko Mandic who's against it. Look at the end of this vote how many of us will be for, so when you see how many of us there are for, you'll see that it's important for politics on Kosovo to have a clean conscience, not a firm hand, as some say, because I often hear war drums when it comes to kiM, especially when it comes to election time. I often hear a sentence – we will force Kosovo back. You know, those who say - we will force Kosovo back, let them force their children, not with children Kruševac, Chačka, Leskovec, Kraljeva. I'm from Kruševec, as I said, and there's a beautiful song there -- a vest, antheria and abbey, that's what Serbians know about. Never again, while the DS is leading a decisive role in this country, the black will be a folk costume in the country of Serbia and will never again respond by force to the madness of some international institutions, because last time we barely survived and there is no need to relive it. Lastly, I can only tell you, if we are talking about Kosovo, Kosovo is not only a territory, Kosovo is a people living in that territory, our Serb brothers and other non-Albanians. If we really want to keep those people in that space, I haven't heard much about giving them economic preconditions for life. How many of you are ready to go and buy cheese from Share, to buy wine from Decan, to go out and buy wheat from the brook of Zvecan, how many of you are ready to buy grapes from Big Hotch? Go to the supermarkets and expose the goods there and allow people to have products that they sell here and pay them more expensive, but to have something to live on. This is how Kosovo is defended today, by economic policy. If we're still talking about today's situation in Kosovo, let's never think it just happened to us. There were people, like the people of Israel, who survived Egyptian slavery, but sang: if I forget thee, let the Lord forget my right hand. I'm sure the gentleman will not forget the right hand to vote for this resolution because I am voting with clear conscience and clear hands.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43660	National MP Zoran Ostojić has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43661	Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, we regrettably cannot vote because the continuity of the policy is clear in this declaration. Why are we against continuity? Because this policy has led to this result. Those who are satisfied with this result will vote. Those who are satisfied with this result for covering up some earlier failures, and they will vote. We've really been pushing for a different policy since our founding, but so far we're not coming across the understanding of the majority in this room. You can tell from today's debate. What did the International Court of Justice, whose opinion did we ask for, say? No one's going to say that to the people openly. That's the first time we mention responsibility. Tell the citizens the truth. Don't, Mr. Bogdanovic, say this is a political decision, this is the highest judicial body of the UN, respected by all the countries. Remember only a few years ago, when the court ruled that Serbia was not guilty of genocide in Bosnia's lawsuit, because we were then saying it was a political court. At the time, Bosniaks felt the way most Serbian citizens feel today. LDP doesn't want to put salt on the wound, but let's not be such hypocrites once we say it's a great court, and then because it's great, let's go get an opinion from him, then let's say - now we don't like the opinion. It was a clear question and we got a clear answer. What's hiding here? Here it is hiding on the basis of which the court said that the Declaration on Kosovo's independence is in accordance with international law or, they said, is not opposed to international law, and you will allow it to almost mean it is in line. The court made it clear that this was based on Resolution 1244 and the constitutional framework. Resolution 1244, a resolution that has been sold to Serbian citizens here, unfortunately, to Serbs from Kosovo for 11 years as a paper guaranteeing Serbia's territorial integrity and sovereignty. The court said no. Under the resolution, they had the right to declare independence, and according to the constitutional framework, and that is the source of international law when it comes to Kosovo, which means Kosovo is a unique case. Okay, we'll get to the General Assembly and see what they decide. That's why we say it's continuity, because citizens continue to be deceived. The court said -- by 1244 they could declare it and no one would make it clear and loud, but there are still those here, though, who were the authorities when Resolution 1244 was adopted, they presented it as a victory and preservation of Kosovo, which they say -- we are referring to Resolution 1244. Resolution 1244 was also referred to by those who voted for an independent Kosovo and those who recognised it as an independent Kosovo. Let's not lie to people. Let's tell the truth. That opinion may be just an opinion, not binding, but make sure that out of 192 UN members in the General Assembly most accept the court's decision and opinion. If Mr. Jeremic of this newly roasted European intends to produce as an envoy, I advise him on North Korea and Venezuela. He could do some work there. Let us go back to what is the fact, it is an international right for Kosovo and it is a unique case. I am sure that in the General Assembly and states that have not recognised Kosovo, such as Spain, Slovakia, Romania, will be in favour of this position, precisely because of their problems. All this campaign, spinning, the court has not answered the key question, has not declared themselves state-of-the-art again, the deception of citizens. The court has declared statehood. He said the state recognises other states. There's nothing the court can say about that. When we get to the General Assembly and what the court said should be politically interpreted, it would be a unique case or precedent. From all that's been said, it's clear that it's a unique case. Maybe somebody doesn't like it. Maybe he doesn't like some other countries. But is it Serbia's interest to be precedentd? No, I don't. Therefore, when this country and its national representatives have the courage to tell citizens the truth, we will begin to change. Unfortunately, there's a lot of talk here about consensus, unity, etc. I remind you of historical examples. There was a consensus in Germany about Hitler's policy for decades in Japan about Japanese militarism. He existed in the UK and France on colonial politics, so at one point they gave up these values and became healthy democratic societies that basically affect the world's relationship now much more than Serbia. This deception in this resolution will only come to grips with the head of Serbs in Kosovo, and believe me, we also get messages. They say -- we're not exactly sheep like that that we haven't heard what was said and we're listening to the interpretations of officials. Here for this resolution that will lead us to the end, when we hit our heads against the wall, you get most of those who were for the Constitution. It wasn't LDP for the Constitution, you won't have that majority. I believe you'll have both factions of radicals when there's a vote. You won't have DSS, but well, you got Chanka in the meantime. I think what you're saying is that they've given up really insufficiently so that it could be a deviation from politics. It is the continuity of those who lost Kosovo, and they did not want to admit it. The only objection to the current government is that in time it came into a situation to say what was lost, and we'll try to get it back. We didn't make it. Finally, Mr. Jeremic, we are only interested in Europe and with regard to Kosovo politics. If that is an obstacle to Europe, you will absolutely have a strong opponent in us. You keep saying, if it brings us into a dilemma to choose Kosovo or Europe, we will not choose Europe. Franco Frattini said - the negotiations are yes, but not about status. And we are for negotiations and you will get negotiations, but not status. Therefore, since you like to mention the words: about everything, but not about status, then I can only tell you, I remember Jacques Klein, he was there as an envoy for Slavonia, said leaving – Serbs never miss a chance to miss an opportunity. The division talks, if that's your goal, went by when you were playing with Secretary General Ahtisaari's representative and calling him an ugly name. If you were up to the dilemma, Mr. Jeremiah, if I were you, I'd only have one dilemma — whether I should resign now or after the General Assembly. If you don't have such a dilemma, then, Mr. Tadic, you should seriously consider who's leading your foreign policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43662	The time for the LDP parliamentary group has been used. The word is by MP Vlatko Ratkovic. After him, MP Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43663	Mr. President of the Republic, Prime Minister, the honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in today's debate on such an important decision certainly has no place of demagogy, populism, as in the days and months ahead, there is no room for defetism or dissentism. We are in a completely different context after a decision by SMEs, in a geopolitical configuration that is completely different. That is why it is necessary, I will use an expression that I often do not use, but indeed, state and political unity, because the issues of the content of the motion for a decision in front of us are one of the key issues of our society and our country. As we are committed to European integration, as we insist on European integration, so we must insist on policies to preserve the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia to KIM. Two key words have been heard here today, or two questions have been asked. Will anyone ever tell Serbian citizens the truth? Even before the SME opinion, the state authorities led and promoted realistic policy. No one was unrealistically optimistic, no government, no parliament, no president of the Republic. The government gave its maximum. She gave a maximum of the maximum in implementing state policy. Politically, we've transferred this problem to the legal field. The fact is that SMEs are the legal roof of the world, as they say. The fact is that this court did not really answer the fundamental question by its decision and did not legalise the attempt of ethnically motivated secessions of Kosovo Albanians with its advisory opinion. Secondly, what is going through today's debate and the question needs to be answered – what is the new policy? During today's debate, we hear this question, that a new policy is needed. We ask the question – what is a new policy? Do we have the right to explicitly or implicitly recognise Kosovo's independence? Do we have the right to break the Constitution? Do we have a mandate from the citizens of Serbia for such a thing? Of course we don't. For these reasons, as a national MP, as a member of the DS, I support the Serbian government in its efforts to continue a policy that will allow the general Assembly to realise the state interests of the Republic of Serbia, which will allow the historic reconciliation of Serbs and Albanians, a lasting and comprehensive peace in the Balkans.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43664	The word has the People's MP Zoran Nikolic. After him, MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43665	Dear citizens of Serbia, you who are watching this session of the National Assembly through small screens tonight, you who are watching a big prank coming to the citizens of Serbia and the Serbian state through small screens, you who are at work attending a major national prank, deception and illusion, I appeal to you. I don't know how many of you are watching this tonight, I don't know what number it is, whether there are more or less of you, but I believe there's enough of you to have this national deception prepared by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Minister Jeremic and, as the most responsible man in this country, President Tadic, never, not even tonight, for centuries, we agree, because Kosovo is not only the territory of the Republic of Serbia, Kosovo is an idea. Kosovo is an economy. Kosovo is, and it is not a phrase, the heart of our people and the heart of our country. So don't fall for it, I repeat again, the national delusion and the illusion you're being offered tonight. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not been in front of this parliament for two years. Not two years later, the prime minister has the strength to say anything here all day, even though he is the Prime Minister who runs this country's policy under the Constitution. Article 132. The Constitution is yours to resign to the President of the Republic. Here you go, Mr. Cvetkovic. There's the President of the Republic. You will never get a better chance to ease the suffering of the Serbian people. Why trust this government? Why trust this decision? Why trust the President of the Republic? You're appealing to unity, that's what's needed now. He especially likes to point out Minister Jeremic. How do you trust the government? How can anyone in the world trust you when you, as Government and you, Mr Tadic, as President of the Republic, do not respect the resolutions made by this Parliament and the decisions made by this Parliament. You say in the latest decision you've given us here and you call for the continuity of politics. I'll tell you there's no such thing as continuity. On the basis of a resolution adopted by this parliament with more than 220 votes on 26 December 2007 and on the basis of a decision made on 18 February 2008, right after Kosovo's declaration of independence, we adopted a decision confirming the government's next decision. Article 6: ''Invoking the Resolution on the Protection of sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia, in particular point 5. Resolution, in which the National Assembly asks the Government of the Republic of Serbia to establish with the EU that the EU mission cannot come to the territory of the Republic of Serbia, to KIM, without an adequate decision by the UN Security Council, the government of the Republic of Serbia declares in vain all decisions by the EU authorities on sending the Mission to Kosovo and Metohija. As illegal, these decisions for the Republic of Serbia do not have any legal fact and do not produce any obligations of the Republic of Serbia towards the EU or anyone who would implement them. "Dear citizens of Serbia, you who are watching this tonight, I don't know how many of you there are, but I believe that there is enough of you not to believe in delusions and illusions, you are not bound by the Resolution adopted by this parliament, and you have never denied it, or you can claim that EULEX is against Kosovo and Metohija, that everything he has done in the implementation of the Kosovo state is against the law and that the state of Serbia does not recognise. I especially recommend this to Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. You have no obligation by decision of your own country to respect any EU body because this is guaranteed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Now tell me, Mr President, am I correct in interpreting the resolution, do I correctly interpret the decision this Parliament has made? If I do not interpret it, then explain it to the citizens of Serbia. You could hear a lot of things today. You could hear from the first deputy prime minister, Mr. Dacic, that you wanted to be more successful in defense than he was and he promised you support. Then we could hear that in no serious state there were plans of the state in parliament. Well, tell me where it can be heard and where is it happening? It only happens in the virtual heads of those who, together with the EU, because Europe has no alternative, want to defend Kosovo. How? Please state one argument as to how you will defend KIM with the EU. By being with EU ministers, with Mr Frattini, who has made it clear tonight that there is room for negotiations between Belgrade and Pristina, and that everything can be negotiated, but only cannot be negotiated on status? Kosovo will never be an independent state, not because the government repeats it every day and not because the president of the Republic does so. Because Serbia has enough friends that Kosovo cannot get a chair in the UN, because the decision of the UN General Assembly session can already be seen. She'll be very similar. In any case, humiliating, as was the decision of the International Court of Justice in The Hague. To become a member, he can become a member of the Security Council. There are countries in the Security Council, especially Russia, that won't allow it. Let's not expect Russia to defend our sovereignty and territorial integrity more than ourselves. The failure of the economy in this country, the failure of European integration, unless the sale of Kosovo is agreed in such a way as to give us another concession to the EU's approach, in any case, and the loss of Kosovo and the loss of its path to the EU, are an economic breakdown, Mr Cvetkovic, the effect of your government. You may have saved the government for these two years from disaster, but now you're taking it faster steps towards that disaster. Because of those people who watch this TV broadcast, who believe the truth is the most important, that the truth wins no matter how hard it is, I'm telling the government and you, the President, if you think it's over, you're wrong. It's just starting now.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43666	Eight minutes and 28 seconds of MP time were used. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic. After him, MP Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43667	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the KIM problem is a historic problem, a problem that has been going on for decades. Only those 200,000 exiled and internally displaced in 1999 make us take special responsibility to try and solve this problem. It's very hard to find a solution. Many did not believe when Serbia proposed a resolution to the UN General Assembly. However, that is why, although many did not believe it, the process of recognising the unilaterally declared Republic of Kosovo has been halted for almost two years, despite the high pressures of very powerful states at the same time. After the International Court of Justice's opinion, I think it is good that we do not deal with this situation, which we firmly stand at the view that there is no need to accept secession and the very proposal for a decision, which in its title includes a part on the continuation of the activity of the Republic of Serbia, says that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and I hope that the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, will, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, continue to take action. This is what the Constitution forces us to do, but this is what makes us also the need to fight with territorial integrity for the protection of people, human rights, property, monuments of culture, our spirituality. I believe that, in parallel with the struggle that the unilaterally declared Republic of Kosovo does not get a chair in the UN, we must fight first and foremost for human rights and human rights. Hope is my courage and a clear conscience for those who have passed before the UN General Assembly, those who have been here with us all day, who have not hidden themselves in the holes, but have come here to seek the way for the people's Parliament together. This gives me hope that what is written in the motion for a decision gives us a good perspective on continuing our fight. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, I call on you to support the National Assembly's decision on the opinion of the International Court of Justice on the legality of the unilaterally declared independence of the provisional institutions of KIM and the continuation of the activities of the Republic of Serbia in defending the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43668	Three minutes and 50 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word has the People's MP Boris Aleksic. After that, MP Milan Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43669	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, have just arrived at the crucial moment led by the pro-Western, pro-American policies of the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic and the authorities led by DS and President Boris Tadic. You didn't answer, although you came here in quite a number, to some of the essential questions. First question - did you take such a move with the International Court of Justice with your imagination or did you withdraw it from ignorance? None of the other options relieve you of your responsibilities. For example, an analysis of the prominent "Forin Polisi" magazine titled "Why Kosovo's independence is good for Serbia", it is just saying that the whole tactics of the Republic of Serbia were to release Balast KiM, so that it could fly to the EU and NATO Pact. It's written by people who are advisers to the Shiparian separatists, who rule the West and who spread their hegemonism throughout the world. Because how do you explain your move to seek an advisory opinion from the court, where out of 15 judges, nine come from countries that have recognised KIM independence? So there's no theoretical chance that you can win here. Why did you make that move? From stupidity or imagination? You're saying there were no other options. Absolutely not true. You had the opportunity to sue countries that recognized an independent kim. The next question arises – you received information from the Russians in advance about the decision, why didn't you withdraw the request? Why didn't you withdraw your request at that moment, those few days in advance, when you received information from the Russian Federation? That option exists. Furthermore, you did not consider a very important Institute of 1950, the United for Peace Institute, which, by the way, proves that Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic is wrong, because it does not know that what is being discussed in the Security Council can also be debated in the UN General Assembly on the basis of the institute. It's happened several times in the history of the UN. So, this government's moves are incomprehensible. You're saying that by asking for an opinion from the International Court of Justice, you stopped the recognitions of KIM. You should be ashamed of yourself. Those confessions were stopped by no one but the Russian Federation. If you're realistic, if you're well-intentioned, you'll admit it at some point. The Russian Federation has stopped most of the recognition of KIM independence. What's your diplomacy? You don't know where you are. Mr. Jeremic, when he was in this parliament last time, said that in 80% of the cases our ambassadors in the countries where they serve will not receive any of the ministers, none of the executive officials, to speak of the heads of state. So it's your diplomacy, it doesn't exist. Mr. Bataković historian, expert in KIM 19th century history, head of the legal team, paradox. Subject and time paradox. He should be a lawyer at the head of the Legal Team. This is the 21st century, not the 19th century. With one hand in his pocket, Mr. Batakovic lists advisers to the Serbian Legal Team in the morning. There are already countries that have recognised Kosovo's independence. Not a single Russian. Why didn't you choose some experts from the Russian Academy of Sciences? Look further, how are you not ashamed to go out with such a motion for a decision in front of the National Assembly? You don't even know the full names of any documents. The UN Charter, that's what you've done, the Helsinki Act, what Helsinki Act? The 1975 Helsinki Final Act. To reach that final act, there were a lot of documents at the conference. You're talking about a compromise solution and negotiations. Everything we have to negotiate with the Albanians was negotiated in Florence in 1926. The final distinction between Serbia and Albania. Now you want the negotiations to undo it. This is possible, a bilateral agreement in international relations can strengthen the previous bilateral agreement. Is that what you want with this? You don't mention Resolution 1244 anywhere. It's just amazing. In this decision you show that you are afraid, that you are cowards, you must not say what the International Court of Justice has done. Why? Because the continuity of your pro-Western policy, your policies facing Washington and London, is quite clear - you must not stand up to your bosses. Now let's help you out a little bit when you go out to the General Assembly of the United Nations to come to your senses. The International Court of Justice's opinion does not meet the basic requirements of the advisory opinion provided for by international law. You've got the strength to say -- yeah, they haven't answered the fundamental question, and you haven't said that this is a kind of fraud, we can even say, forgeries. If you had these Russians on the legal team, they would have told you. Let's see where the International Court of Justice has rephrase the question that you've asked, and it's twice reshaped it, it's given an answer to a completely different question, not a formal aspect, not a formal-legal one. So he's rephrase the question twice. First, in response to the court, it is not about the declaration of independence, but about the adoption of a declaration of declaration of independence. Maybe it sounds the same to someone, believe the lawyers, it's not the same, which is why it's important that you have a lawyer in charge of the legal team. So these are different things. Secondly, in his reply, the International Court added the words "the standard of international law" to "applicable norms". Now they are authorized to determine the applicable norms. And what are inapplicable standards for them? Part of the UN Charter and the Helsinki Final Act, as well as some other norms. Therefore, the International Court of Justice's advisory opinion has the character of fraud and forgeries and you must attack it on behalf of Serbia in front of the UN General Assembly. What was the International Court of Justice further doing? A lot of unfounded claims. He says Security Council Resolution 1244 has established a special legal regime that has priority over the Serbian legal regime. Nebulose. They give their opinion to UNMIK acts the strength of international law standards. Absolutely stupid. So that's your main argument, the danger to other countries, not only not to answer their question, but to the question they're reshaping, falsifying to achieve some political goals. What political goals? The political goals that their bosses, and your bosses in Washington and London, say they must be implemented. So it's very clear what's been going on here. Resolution 1244, which you are not referring to in this act, is not only important, you have a series of resolutions and agreements before confirming the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia to KIM: UN Security Council Resolution 757 since 30 May 1992; Resolution 777, 19 September 1992; Resolution 47/1, 22 September 1992 of the UN General Assembly; the Paris Agreement, 14 December 1991, reaffirms the statehood and integrity of the Republic of Serbia. Let me remind you, some of these acts have both been adopted by the EU and the United States, and the Russian Federation, and the United Kingdom, both Germany and France. You're surprised that the International Court of Justice or some institution like that can get involved in counterfeiting? Did you hear they tried to falsify Resolution 1244? If not, you have an excellent analysis of Greek Professor Panayotis Haritos on the subject. Read it necessarily. You had to have a large number of sources of international right in mind. Among other things, a declaration of inadmissibility of intervention and interference in the internal affairs of the United Nations General Assembly of 1981, which binds the right to self-determination exclusively to the peoples under colonial authority. This is international law, and the EU and the United States have defined their relationship with Yugoslavia by the Declaration on guidelines for the recognition of new countries in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union and the Declaration on Yugoslavia, where it has been said that the Soviet Union and Yugoslavia are cases for themselves and that the peoples there have the right to self-determination, regardless of their lack of colonial authority. You expected something from the EU. In 2009, the United States of The European Parliament is giving you a resolution that supports Kosovo's independence, 424 votes to, 133 against. This July 2010 again, the European Parliament is adopting a resolution calling on other countries to recognise an independent KIM. Robert Cooper, former adviser to Tony Blair, current senior official of the EU Council, director-general for foreign and military affairs, primarily one immoral person, wrote the book "The Breaking of Nations". Be careful what the book says – the challenges of the post-modern world lie in adapting to double standards. Europeans should co-operate on the basis of rights and common security, but outside Europe they should apply more harsh methods from previous times, force, preventive attacks, fraud and whatever it takes. This is your EU official. Then how can you rely on the EU? What he's saying and writing Robert Cooper, it's savagery, gentlemen, it's not a European civilization. So I urge you to think carefully about all this and put yourself in your head and perform quality in front of the UN General Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43670	The word has an MP Milan Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43671	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Prime Minister, gentlemen of the Ministers, Madam President of the National Assembly, fellow MPs, the KIM problem is decades-old, may even be said to be an age-old problem, which has unfortunately experienced its culmination with us as contemporaries. By not understanding the changes that occurred in the world by the fall of the Berlin Wall, by not getting along in new circumstances, Serbia was the winner of the Balkan wars, in World War I, in World War II, in these historic events on the contrary from most allies in these wars. All negotiations thus went on to be condemned to failure before and after 2000, so that in 2000, the chess dictionary said, we would continue to play the tea party, with an already almost unexplainable situation, and that the opponent had already had a much stronger secondary team on his side. We're being attacked on the one hand, so why don't we win right now, and on the other hand, why don't we turn ourselves in right now? I will refer to several claims that were heard today in these discussions. First of all, we had one glorification of Resolution 1244 by several participants in today's debate. Since 11 June 1999, in the KIM area, the Republic of Serbia has neither its own soldier, nor its police officer, nor tax collectors, nor customs officers, all of what it represents in the full sense of the state. What Paul Virido would say, the state is not territory, it's control of the territory. In light of this, it sounds grotesque today that Resolution 1244 is the term for the existence of Serbia's statehood in KIM, but I agree in the assessment that it is unfortunately today the only official international legal document on which state policy towards KIM can be built according to the existing and valid constitution. In previous discussions, the question of why KIM has not been on the agenda for 25 months has been apostrophysed. The loudest in this was those who, by returning the mandate to the people in full, placed the KIM on the agenda of the previous elections. In those elections, they went the way they did, the people did not return their mandate, and the particular question is whether the real policy is the burning of embassies and Belgrade and what did we get or lose? The answer to the question whether it helped or helped improve Serbia's legal-political and diplomatic position is more than clear. It's been asked here and the question why did we even ask the question? The question of KIM is not only politically-diplomatic, but in its essence a deeply valuable issue. Often, the so-called so-called "high home" is mentioned in this high house. European values, and I would say above all, are universal human values. Life without value is dangerous and often pointless. Without higher goals or the meaning of life, life is a mere pavement. The values give meaning to daily passing. Thanks to them, we distinguish both good and bad, accurate and incorrect, successful and unsuccessful, true and false, decent and rude and many other valuable orientations. Unlike the values that are abstract, norms are specific. Standards as criteria and regulations are the technical part, but essential to the achievement of values. Behind every moral standard is a value, for example, good. Behind every legal norm of justice. With the hope that it's true, we have spoken to the International Court of Justice in a good way. One dyspression. When a journalist once asked a communist official a question for him very embarrassingly, the official answered as from the cannon – I disagree with the question. At the International Court of Justice, instead of legal norms, we have received in our twisted form an answer not to agree with the question. Not only has he not given the answer, but he has just opened up a number of new questions, which will undoubtedly confirm the future. If the Badinter Commission has given its time as the legal basis for Yugoslavia's disintegration, I fear that the International Court of Justice's opinion will have even more serious and far-reaching consequences, not only on the Balkans, unless the General Assembly introduces the whole situation in the framework of the international legal order in the UN Charter in the autumn. The arguments that the case of Kosovo, so-called Kosovo, seem to have a rather dim view. Sui generis- a unique case, to which no one can be called in the future. It's even more amazing that this argument is being used by states whose legal system is based on so-called. Predictive law, i.e. that the judgment adopted once can be taken as an example in all future similar situations, which also undermines the legal order of the states that claim it. Despite the feeling of injustice, the Assembly, the Government, the President of the Republic must put aside emotions. As already said in today's discussion, no government in the world could say-- we don't care about our rights, I don't want to fight for them. The debate in the General Assembly is the last opportunity for the international community to show that for a sustainable and sustainable solution, in which one party will not get everything and the other lose everything. It is thus impossible to ensure peace, stability and prosperity in the region. Negotiations can achieve the goal of a historic agreement between Serbs and Albanians, which will permanently Pacific the Balkans region and allow smooth development and European integration, and everything else would cause permanent instability. History is filled with such or similar situations in the past. Today we were listening to the story of the Triangular Agreement by Mr. Pastor. I currently think of the example of France and Algeria and the dilemmas and the difficult decisions of Charles de Gaulle. Perhaps the thought of Andre Malro, who said at the time, helped him make the decision, and I will never understand the civilizations that sacrifice living people to myths, so I guess there's always myths to sacrifice to living people.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43672	The word has a National MP, Natasa Vučković.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43673	Dear Mr President, Madam President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today when we talk about the International Court of Justice's opinion, we should not hide dissatisfaction, because we have expected a different opinion, because we truly believe that international law is violated by the declaration of independence of Kosovo and Metohija. It is very important that we stay out of the trap and not question the institution of the court, because we are and we want to be an active member of the UN, and the court is the legal authority of the UN, and we have to bear that in mind. Today is not about pessimism or optimism. Today is the time for realism. It is certain that Kosovo's problem is inherited and a difficult problem, a problem difficult for every government that has faced it, but some previous governments have done more by their own actions, inadequate policy and unwillingness to see the reality of the modern world only further contribute to the distance from the solution, making Serbia's position more difficult, making Serbia more and more credible in the international community. Today we still face this momentum in a significant part of the international public, with the momentum to view Serbia as a country that produces instability, problems and conflicts, so for years we have been depicted, justified or unjustly, it doesn't matter. President Tadic and this government, the entire government, and this parliament, to this extent that they are dealing with international co-operation, have done much to reduce this negative picture of Serbia, to present ourselves as a country seeking solutions to problems, which actively contributes to stability in the region, as a country that respects domestic and international institutions. That is why we asked the International Court to plead whether Kosovo's unilateral declaration of independence was in accordance with international law. What path have we defined ourselves for now? For the only possible rational path, to fight diplomatic and legal means. Did we have any other options then? Some opposition officials claim we are. My opinion is that by then we've tried all these other more radical means, and isolation, and war, and bombings and clashes with the most powerful states in the world. Today, it seems to me that we must support a collected, serious, responsible speech on Kosovo. We need courage and determination to make decisions, taking care of Serbia's vital interests. Many previous years have earned a lot of cheap political points on the Kosovo issue. The government and this parliamentary majority want to find a solution to the problem we have been facing for so long. We do not want to freeze conflicts and unresolved problems, but to convince the world, in line with our European orientation, that Serbia is a reliable and predictable partner. Does anyone today seriously think that we can afford to re-confront ourselves with the world's most influential states, or will we all agree that it's time to develop co-operation and perform together when we have a chance. I think we all share the belief that there are plenty of confrontations that increase problems, make our European chances difficult and that they do not bring positive results. The government and the parliamentary majority trust citizens to lead Serbia into EU membership and to preserve Serbia's territorial integrity. With these goals, we adapt our actions daily. We do not recognise a unilateral declaration of Kosovo's independence, and we do not give up on the idea that this region should become a stable area in which it lives peacefully and safely. That's why we're not giving it up. At the General Assembly, we are discussing the political dimension and consequences of secession and defending our position that negotiations are the only possible way for a sustainable and stable fair solution. For such an attitude, of course, we must provide support. I believe that the government will properly assess and develop events and manage to provide support for both EU member states, both the United States and other influential countries in the world. Finally, as in our daily life, private or business, there is a situation where our goals and interests are not as possible or cannot be achieved in general or they are difficult to reconcile, and in politics there are situations where our interests and goals need to be assessed from the point of view of their real reality. We also need courage and determination, and I believe that this government will continue to take care of the vital interests of Serbia and its citizens and the circumstances in which we operate. It is therefore important to support this decision that the government has proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43674	National MP Jovan Palalic. Your parliamentary group has six minutes and 50 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43675	Mr. President, Prime Minister, Ministers, Assembly Presidency, ladies and gentlemen MPs, today this debate is not just a debate on politics towards Kosovo and Metohija, but a general debate on the results and responsibilities of the executive government, meaning the Government and President of the Republic, for the overall results in the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia, where Kosovo and Metohija are the most important topic. Certainly, after 25 months of absence of such a debate in the National Assembly, it is an opportunity to say something about the results of this policy today. The question is raised here for the representatives of the government, why such a decision by the International Court of Justice is not so terrible, why we have room for further political struggle and that, despite the fact that the International Court of Justice has made such an opinion, we have not lost. The essence of Serbia's defeat is this: this was the first initiative in this Kosovo problem launched by the Republic of Serbia, which ended with our defeat. We did not want negotiations when the negotiations opened, we felt that standards in Kosovo were not satisfied that negotiations could be entered. The first initiative we launched, we lost. On the other hand, the additional problem is that the kidnapping that took place in 2008 following the declaration of the fake state of Kosovo, with this opinion on the initiative of the Republic of Serbia, has gained legality. Serbia has unprepared this initiative in its position that what we have not recognised now is the International Court of Justice for the right of those who have kidnapped Kosovo. Today we heard a series of reasons why an opinion should be sought and why it was not necessary to go with the suit. I'd single out two reasons, and they're actually talking about how politics has been conducted in this current period. We asked for an opinion in order to gain time, to reduce the number of countries that have recognised Kosovo and in fact do not solve anything with that opinion. On the other hand, we did not want to sue to avoid opening a confrontation, as it was said here, with the most powerful countries in the world that have recognised Kosovo. There is now a question of the results of such a policy and such a strategy. The essential question is here, and it was said by Minister Jeremic, that the countries that we convinced the previous two years not to recognise independent Kosovo did not do so because the International Court of Justice did not make a decision. We are now witnessing that countries that initially had a clear view of secession will never recognise independent Kosovo, regardless of what the court's decision was. Also, neither those countries that looked at their interest and assessed whether they would admit or not, which may not have had a clear view, might have admitted and likely admitted because of political pressures, rather than on the basis of the International Court of Justice's opinion. It's a fundamental question, and that's why this failure is greater. You said we didn't want to ask a question that would lead us to a problem for the solution to be worse. That's what you meant. We didn't want to solve the problem. If we were going to sue, which we suggested, the court would have to rule and make a decision. Now why should we trust you when you say, the court would make a decision like this, when you said last week that the court would take the opposite view of what we now have. Based on what credentials and arguments we have for you, we believe it would be different than what we now claim. That's the essential question. On the other hand, you said, we're not suing not to confront the most powerful countries in the world. Government officials, have these countries, which are sponsors of an independent Kosovo, clashed with the Republic of Serbia, resorted to the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia? Yes, but we do not have the courage to implement our policy to the end, a policy that says – at the cost of confrontation we safeguard our territorial integrity and sovereignty. All this is done as part of the common policy: both Kosovo and the European Union. You didn't want to press charges so you wouldn't mind the representatives of the European Union. You expected a balanced opinion because you prepared the public for so long. Someone promised you that. In the meantime, in order not to object to the European Union that you were seeking, you have led this soft policy, and have yielded to the European Union's demands on the ground. You brought Eulex. Mr. Jeremic, if EULEX is a good solution for Serbia, I'd like to hear it from you. You signed a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Now you want to talk to the European Union in a far more unfavourable position than it was in 2008, when they told you we should negotiate. You signed visa liberalisation without Kosovo and Metohija, you signed a police agreement. You signed everything the European Union asked for. What are the results of this policy? The results of these policies are that you enter today or you will enter into negotiations with the European Union when she told you, after all these concessions, - we can talk about everything, but not Kosovo's status. We've come to a wall where you have to decide how this policy of yours will be run in the future. In any case, the results of this policy are catastrophic. It has failed and the road to the General Assembly is the way to the complete defeat of Serbia, or we will hear today how you will convince us that it is a sure victory, as we have already listened to the previous days. It's time for a new policy. It's time to cancel the Eulex mission, what you gave them in Kosovo. It's time to press charges and it's time to resign.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43676	Time's up. Mr. Bosko Ristic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43677	Mr. President, the Honorable Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this session is scheduled on a very important issue that will identify the likely character of future moves and authorities and opposition and all public officials who have the responsibility to perform these public functions in front of the citizens who have elected them. Here, during the debate, we heard a different argument about the motion for a decision at the hearing before the Assembly. The debate was characterised by different attitudes, from supporting such a decision with such a content being made and adopted, to its full challenge. The motive for the conduct of individual MPs in parliament has, above all, political views, different political programmes, a desire for political positioning in the day-to-day political circumstances, or, on the other hand, there are such motives that MPs want to create the foundations of a rational policy that will be led in the context of the overall relations in which Serbia is also in the international community, but also in the context of the political relations that prevail in Serbia itself. Representatives of parties who have received a political mandate from citizens based on a policy that includes both European integration and the preservation of sovereignty and integrity in Kosovo and Metohija believe that a rational approach and an analysis of the existing situation, an argument that can provide the support of our political friends in the international community, we fight further to preserve sovereignty and integrity in Kosovo and Metohija. The Democratic Party will vote in favour of this decision because its policy is such that it has received citizens' support in the latest elections for the political programme for the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija within the Republic of Serbia, but also for the policy of European integration, regional co-operation, the preservation of peace and stability, the preservation of solutions through diplomatic, political and legal instruments. During the debate, we heard the legal advice that Serbia and Serbian diplomacy could through various means of law achieve their political goals. Personally, I consider as a citizen, as a lawyer and as a politician to give legal advice lightly only to lead Serbia to fall into political action. Also, when we talk about unity, about state and political, I think that state and political unity should be achieved in relation to the values that are the basis and guarantee of building a democratic society. We cannot reach for instruments of protection of our interests that would harm the democratisation of society and that would endanger peace and security both in Serbia and in the region and in the international community at all. The parties they want, using the Kosovo issue, to extort early elections, do not understand or want to say it is an extorted move for which Serbian citizens would pay. Kosovo and Metohija are a significant and important issue. Kosovo and Metohija are the constitutional obligations of all public office holders and all institutions. The obligation to fight for Serbia's integrity and for Kosovo and Metohija as an integral part of Serbia is up to us, but the method of political struggle and policy choice must be such that a rational approach ensures progress in achieving the interest of the Republic of Serbia in negotiations with all stakeholders. First of all, I think of citizens in Kosovo and Metohija, but also with international policy actors, of whom the process of recognising Kosovo and Metohija's unilaterally declared independence depends to a good extent, but also on protecting the interests of the Republic of Serbia. I believe that Serbia's political activity should also be considered in the context of further democratisation of society, protecting all vital interests of Serbia based on peace, good neighbourlyness, but also protecting human rights throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Since the advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice is optional, but also, according to many comments and harmful to the interest of the Republic of Serbia, I believe that at the same time I should read the reasons for the International Court of Justice to take such a stand. I think that facing the consequences of long-term policy in Kosovo and Metohija is very useful for continuing to lead the politics of the Republic of Serbia in international relations, but also on the internal political agenda. This is why I do not want to place responsibility for certain political consequences on individual parties, because the parties that were actors of political life in the 1990s have experienced an internal transformation. Their programs and their political activities in modern times show this. What is most difficult for our Serbian society is that the consequences of a non-democratic act have affected a democratic society like Serbia today. I think it is absolutely incorrect that the Serbian society and politics run by the ruling coalition, including this government, are characterized by ugly names, to be characterized in the wrong way, because it is evident in Serbia itself and in the international community that Serbia's institutions are strengthening their capacities in protecting human rights, in creating mechanisms that protect human rights guarantee. In this regard, I would like to conclude that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the MPs, all the institutions of the Republic of Serbia dealing with politics and which should deal with future protection of the integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia should take care of the political context in which Serbia is located, the way and the status of the European integrations in which Serbia is located. But also with its rhetoric and argument very often heard here, which is contrary to the democratic principles and values on which a democratic society is founded, we can create a basis for further recognitions of Kosovo and Metohija and of those countries which are not obliged by this position of the International Court of Justice, but because of rhetoric and the withdrawal of incorrect and undemocratic political moves can create a reaction that would harm the interests of the Republic of Serbia. That is why we must not, with stubborn and irrational policy, challenge a new chain of recognition, but in the United Nations Assembly we should advocate that at democratic values, democratic principles, in peaceful negotiations of all stakeholders, there are goals that should be of particular interest to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43678	National MP Nemanja Sarovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43679	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the Serb brothers and sisters of Serbia, respected citizens of Serbia, have suffered a major blow with the International Court of Justice ruling. However, this is not the defeat of any of you Eurofanatics sitting in this hall individually, neither Tadic, nor Nikolic, or Dinkic, or anyone else, this is the defeat of the policy that you have conducted in previous years. We are not asking today, as some say, someone's head because - what would Serbia have today to do with Vuk Jeremic or Boris Tadic resigning? Serbia has received another fierce slap from the EU and the United States, and you can't say now that someone will resign and that fact will erase it, that it will be fine. No, it's wrong and it can't be right, because this isn't just Boris Tadic's personal defeat, or any of you, this is the defeat of the policy you've been defending for the past 20 years and that you've spent in Serbia for the past 10 years. This is the defeat of the policy of unspeakable compliance with EU and policy conditions, which says the EU has no alternative. For the SRS, Serbia, its territorial integrity and sovereignty, they have no alternative. It's good to have this debate today, because some masks are going to fall. It is good to see how much the former Chetnik duke liked it in Brussels and Washington, that he liked it so much that he wanted to go again today, even as postman Boris Tadic. And how could he not go, if he kept repeating that Boris Tadic's policy is good, so that he could implement the policy even faster and faster and faster, but that only some of Tadic's associates are not good? Today's offer, however, Vuk Jeremic says how bad Serbian diplomacy is, when, as a messenger and courier Boris Tadic, someone who has been transformed overnight from ultranationalist to Eurofanatics is acceptable. I ask the question to Vuk Jeremic – could someone who stole the parliamentary mandate, someone who had given up the ideology that represented the previous 18 years, someone who had trampled the church, an oath given in church before God, someone who had failed to finish college for 30 years, could someone such be the moral and intellectual authority who would be the emissary of the president of Serbia and who would convince someone abroad, represent Serbia and convince him not to recognise independent Kosovo? If someone has not been crystal clear so far, today there is no doubt that the United States is hostile to Serbia. Can we consider someone who's taking some of our territory, today Kim, tomorrow Raska, Vojvodina or Shumadi, to be our friend? There is no worse act of enmity than bombing and kidnapping territory, and that is exactly what the United States and the EU's leading countries have done towards Serbia, and you continue to call them our friends and swear allegiance to them. 20 years ago, the kidnapping of KIM didn't seem real, today it's real to everyone. Ten years ago, the abduction of Vojvodina did not seem realistic, for everyone in Serbia today it seems very real and your regime is building a new nation. You're building some duchess. Has anyone tried to count how many times a day someone who lives in the territory of Vojvodina hears an adjective of the duchy? The Dukean budget, the Duke's Prime Minister, the Duke's Academy of Science, the Duke's Secretary, the Duke's this or the Duke's that. It's very propagating, not to say hate, but a negative attitude and hostility towards Serbia and Belgrade. You convince the poor, hungry and disappointed citizens of Vojvodina to live better, but, behold, they miss the EU and they have a problem with Belgrade. They go to Belgrade all the money, goes to Belgrade budget, Belgrade doesn't give this, Belgrade doesn't give it. In the end, I guess in two or three years' time, you'll be very surprised when the generations they're standing today say, "What kind of Serbia, we're Vojvodjans?" From whom did Boris Tadic get the mandate to let the prime minister of Turkey do what he wants? Instead of Boris Tadic going to Bratunac and bowing to Serbian victims, Boris Tadic accompanied Erdogan to Novi Pazar and it is very interesting how state media, I repeat, state media, passed on the news. I will quote briefly -- Serbian President Boris Tadic and Turkish Prime Minister Recep Erdogan estimated today, following talks with Sandzak mayors, that a concrete benefit from co-operation from the two states will be given to the Sandzak region. In addition to Turkey participating in road construction in Sandzak, the government in Ankara will help develop Sandzak by encouraging co-operation and fraternization of municipalities. In two sentences - four times Sandzak. You connect Sandzak, as you say, Raska, as it is, with Turkey, historically, and economically, and religiously, here you are now going to fraternize the municipalities. The question arises – when all these ties are reached between Raska and Turkey, what will it be related to Serbia? The European Union is not and will not accept Turkey as an EU member, but compensates it through our backs and lets Turkey spread its influence and power on Serbia, on the Raska area and on BiH, not on Sandzak, of course, according to state television. Is there a law on territorial division and are all state authorities and institutions obliged to respect this law? Today, some have said that it doesn't matter what it's called, what it's called, and what it's called, what it's called, what it's called, what it's called, what it's called, what it's called, what it's called, what it's called, what it's called, what it's called, what it's called, what it's called, what it's called. You used to claim that it doesn't matter on kim whose flags stand out and what names are used. It didn't matter to you, but to the Shiptars it was important. Look how far that's gotten us. It doesn't matter to you today, it's not the Serbs in Vojvodina, but it's important to the Dukes. It doesn't matter to you in Raska whose flags stand out, and everything is blushing from the Turkish flags, we haven't seen any Serbian. It doesn't matter to you, but Erdogan did. How do you not mind, in Raška, mixing the church into politics, choosing national councils? Zukorlic ran for the national council of Bosniaks and the whole of Raška was encased in slogan posters – the vote for Mufti. Is Serbia a secular state or in Belgrade, and not in Novi Pazar? What would have happened if the Serbian Orthodox Church had participated in some elections and the poster had stood – a vote for the bishop? One of the most important reasons Serbia is in such a difficult situation today is to withdraw a lawsuit against NATO countries that bombed Serbia, as the verdict against these countries today would be a key argument for Serbia in a just negatively completed procedure before the International Court. On whose behalf did DOS regime abolize the murderers of thousands of Serbian citizens? On whose behalf did you forgive and who gave you the mandate to forgive tens of billions of euros in material damage? On whose behalf has Boris Tadic talked several times already with Ivo Josipovic about withdrawing Serbia's charges against Croatia for genocide? Does Boris Tadic have hundreds of thousands of expelled, thousands of killed and robbed Serbs from Republika Srpska? On whose behalf does Tadic announce his departure to Vukovar? On whose behalf and who will they apologize to in Vukovar tomorrow? On whose behalf was Boris Tadic in Srebrenica? Why did the Serbian Republic's MUP prevent Serbian citizens from going to Bratunac and honoring Serbian victims? I was personally stopped by the police at the border, at Drina near Zvornik, and pulled out of the column and held for 15 minutes. They asked me to call for parliamentary immunity to let me cross the border. Why did RTS not inform the public that all those who had T-shirts with Vojislav Seselj or Ratko Mladic had access to the military cemetery in Bratunc? How is it possible that the only reporter, RTS, was blind and deaf to a 25-metre transparency that said "Tadic is not Serbia" and "Serbia is not genocide"? Today, as well as over the past decade, Serbia's dispersion is at stake, based on a fundamental design and perseverance. This is what the United States and leading EU countries do. They're cutting us apart by part of the state, and you're convincing the people and the citizens of Serbia that it doesn't matter. You say - people are important, better life is important. You tell Serbs to forget Kosovo, to live better and to join the EU. A verdict has been reached against Serbia's interest. Do citizens of Serbia live better today if you all say we are a step away from Kosovo and closer to the EU? Did something cost money in Serbia? Bread? Milk? Warming? Anything? Of course not, and it won't even be cheap. Even if we join the EU in about 15 years, it's obvious they don't want us there. The German doesn't give his own brother the euro, let alone Serbia. I must say once again, that your fascination with the EU comes from that communist foreign exchange -- radio, not radio, plays radio for me. You convinced Serbian citizens that the EU is a paradise garden. When we get in, all the problems will go away. He who does not help himself will not be helped by God. It is not for Serbia or the Serbian people to make progress until we help ourselves, until the economy is working and until we start respecting ourselves and others will not respect us. Vuk Jeremic argues that the issue before the International Court was well asked, but says however we asked, such SMEs would not answer the essence of the question. What does that mean? This means there is no justice for Serbia, because the court is heavily influenced by the US and the leading EU countries, which also demonstrate that they are enemies of Serbia. That shows your international rating. This shows the rating of the president of Serbia, our government and our diplomacy. Jeremic cited the hostile relationship, the inertness of politics, which has not changed since the 1990s, when it said, Republika Srpska's drowning in unitary BiH and Kosovo's independence has been outlined. The question arises – what is the role of Boris Tadic, who one week hugs Sulejman Tihic and Erdogan, and next week with Milorad Dodik? You decide, both you and Milorad Dodik, whether you want an independent Serbian or a unitary BiH. It is difficult to expect better relations between the United States and the EU, if you all keep swearing, that whatever they do, that whatever evil they do to us, you will not change your course towards the EU and the path of Euro-Atlantic integration. This is the last alarm bell, but not for you, because you're completely irrelevant. This is the alarm bell for the citizens of Serbia, for the state. The last call for Serbs to stand up, to start resisting, to believe in the state. This is the last call to change the political course by 180 degrees, to openly say that Serbia's European perspective is a dead end, we no longer have anything to talk to them about, and to turn to traditional and only friends of Serbia -- Russia, China, India, Arab states and South American states.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43680	Minister Vuk Jeremic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43681	I would just like to start by saying that the government has considered the proposed SNS amendments and is proposing the adoption of the first three SNS amendments in the technical procedure. I have a few questions to answer and a few warnings and criticisms from the DSS representatives. First of all, about the lawsuit, I really think you should put an end to that debate. The lawsuits against any country at a time like this, in front of these SMEs, would be the most direct way to lose everything, and whoever's still talking about the lawsuits forgets that with these lawsuits they should go to the same Hague. I'm afraid in a political sense, such a reaction only represents a new head-to-sand push. On Thursday, the ICJ did not take away from us Kosovo, as the General Assembly in September, even if we manage to win despite all difficulties, and we will do everything to achieve it, it will not return. This is a long and difficult process in which we must not give up. What is most important is that, despite all the political differences when it comes to Kosovo, we try to preserve unity. When we were together in the government with the DSS, we had many differences in opinion when it comes to Kosovo. Every time we end up agreeing. Many times we agreed with the DSS's position, rather than the other way around, because we respected the need to achieve unity. In general, I think that when it comes to this kind of thing, and this is a matter of state-of-the-art and national interest, I think the opposition should support the government. Tomorrow, when we are in opposition, we will support the government on these key national issues. So I haven't heard from the DSS today any new proposals. All these suggestions have already been on the table many times and, I'm sorry, but I don't consider any of these proposals constructive. Finally, I want to say once again, although today's session is not about this, the Eulex issue, the question of reconfiguring international civilian presence on the territory of the province, would happen in 2008. It would have happened without the Security Council's involvement, if we hadn't engaged closely in this matter and managed to decommission UNMIK, which was at that time in the process, to stop EULEX's deployment under the mandate of the Security Council. Therefore, the main reason for our engagement with the Security Council on reconfiguration was that we can continue to help people living in the field. Since we cannot speak directly to illegal secessionists, since the binding decisions of the National Assembly prohibit us, we have had to engage with international civilian presence in a way that does not violate our Constitution and international law. This was achieved through the Security Council's decision, which envisioned the reconfiguration of the international civilian presence in the province. The story of Eulex, the story of the lawsuits are stories that have already been told. Today we must look forward. This is a very difficult moment for Serbia. I would really like the DSS representatives in this regard, after all these criticisms they have given us and I thank them, to be able to support us, as I believe each opposition should support every government on the Kosovo issue, not only today but also in ten, 20 or how many years it will take to fight for Kosovo. One more thing I want to explain, the government has considered all the proposed amendments to the opposition and considers that only these three SNS amendments are in line and in spirit with this resolution we propose to parliament for adoption. As for the representatives of the SRS, I would like to clarify my position -- we would be extremely grateful if a senior representative of the SRS agreed to be the bearer of Serbia's state message in a country with a request from the state not to recognise Kosovo. There are some countries where the SRS has a great reputation and we would really be grateful if they would support us in this and if they would help to convey this message where it is needed.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43682	Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43683	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will respond immediately to what the Minister has now said on behalf of the Government. So our three amendments, which the government has accepted, make this document of the National Assembly legally valid because the amendments adopted have cleared the decision, the preamble and the first attitude of our position in the opinion of the International Court of Justice. So, it's a good thing you accepted this, we're not going to anger the states that rely on the International Court of Justice, not the court itself, and not our own position that we needed that opinion. I'm sorry that the two amendments remain, these are already our internal political amendments in which we insisted on a different attitude towards the National Assembly in such documents, in the attempt, but let it remain for our debates. I think that this decision, with amendments like this, could come out of this assembly with a positive opinion of the SNS, and I call on those who have so far spoken against rising above their weak policies and bowing to this unique policy of Serbia and the National Assembly. We will vote in favour of the motion for a decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43684	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. The word has a folk MP, Mrs Gordana Komic. (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: Replica. ) You will get the word after Gordana Komić within the time you have.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43685	Ladies and gentlemen, I want to share a few of my estimates of space and the context that came after the International Court of Justice's adopted opinion in The Hague, because I think it is important and that it can help a better atmosphere or inspire an even deeper and stronger dialogue between all of us who are in the National Assembly. My personal assessment that this is the first debate on Serbia and the situation with Kosovo that is really being conducted in the National Assembly. The debate is because we hear each other, we listen to each other and we try to reason our visions and our messages on the problems facing which Serbia is currently and what is best to do in 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015. This kind of debate implies that if there is good news in the assessment of the consequences of the International Court of Justice's opinion, then the news is that in Serbia political assessments are summed up with reality, not with expectations that we have, that politics should become a list of opportunities, rather than a list of wishes that we will share with Serbian citizens. The second assessment I want to share with you is what kind of message we want to send to Serbia today in general and citizens living in Kosovo, regardless of whether they are Serbs, Albanians or any other. Our message is clear, and if there is good news of what is the consequence of the International Court of Justice's opinion, it is that it is fully illuminated how narrow the maneuvering space that this government has or who had a government before it or that government before this government. The narrow maneuvering space is in the view that there is no citizen of Serbia who would give any government a mandate not to safeguard territorial integrity and sovereignty and there are no politicians who would enter power or opposition with a desire to violate Serbia's constitution. If we talk to voters, whether they are ours, DS or any other party, they will tell you – we know how difficult the situation is. We know that there is no justice in the world, that the right is only greater. And when We ask them, well, what do you expect from us? They say, fight. And that's what we do in a narrow maneuvering space, what we can and can do for their better life, for Serbia, where we will live better and better, year after year, which is ahead of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43686	Mr. Todorovicu, Mr. Minister has neither offended nor vaguely said anything. Do you want within the time of your MP group? He didn't say anything vague or offensive. [[Dragan Todorovic, from place: Right to replica.]] There's no basis for replication. I'm sorry. (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: Within the time of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43687	Mrs. Dejanovic, it is amazing how you allow the executive authority to behave in the Republika Srpska Assembly. Mr. Vuk Jeremic has done the most possible insult to the SRS. Mr. Wolf Jeremic doesn't seem to know the elemental stuff. He doesn't know the division between the executive and the legislative authority. We're not government officials to be her emissaries. You can do that with someone else. With the SRS, you can't. We can through certain institutions, through certain international organisations, make a full contribution to our country's benefits, not to your emissaries. I must remind you, Mr. Jeremic, that we do not have an adequate response in the ruling majority's representatives, because they are obviously not ready to take certain steps that are necessary when it comes to Serbia. First of all, it's a community of independent states. We have been there for several years without obligation, which would certainly help our country expand opportunities, not only politically, but economically. I mentioned this collective security agreement before. What did you do? To this day, you did not find it appropriate to answer that offer. What did you do on our proposal to form a group of friendships with the Iranian people? You know very well, Minister, how important Iran is and how much it would help Serbia's interests, as the president of the assembly knows today. Who's holding that? Who's stopping? Representative of the DS, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. After all that, you're calling us to be your emissaries. You can do that with someone else, you can't do it with the SRS. We're here to control the government, to control both the executive and the judicial authority, not to do those jobs that you were supposed to do. If you knew how to do those jobs, you wouldn't be in this situation today. Why didn't you talk to me earlier? Why this debate wasn't in the Assembly a year ago, two years ago, but now you remember when practically all the roads were closed, when you lost in all the fields and now you're grasping a straw and you're looking for something from us that we can never do, or we'll do. The SRS will always take care of the state and national interests and, accordingly, will make decisions that will help to improve our situation, which is very difficult, as much as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43688	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43689	Dear President of the Republic, the Honorable Prime Minister, gentlemen of the Ministers, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, one of the first lessons I should have learned at the Faculty of Law in 1975 was the definition of the state, and with that in relation to rights and the legal system. The state, according to that definition, is a bit anachronous, a machine of power in the hands of the ruling class, while it is the right set of standards that enjoy the sanctions of the state. It's a bit of an evolution of the definition of law and says it's a set of legitimate forced norms. International law has some modified definition, but its basis is similar and can be summed up in two words, that it is a consensus of power. The International Court of Justice is one of the essential institutes that should protect the international legal order. The UN's highest body is the UN General Assembly. Territorial integrity is until Thursday, and I consider it one of the key foundations on which international law and international legal order rests. Serbia's territorial integrity in the case of the southern Serbian province has been confirmed by Special Resolution 1244. Has the International Court of Justice in The Hague abolished this fundamental principle of international law in its opinion since last Thursday? I don't think so, but this kind of opinion would put the international order on a serious test. Even if we agree that he has avoided the answer to a key issue of sovereignty, even if it is a non-binding act, and even if this act is legally lacking, this opinion is related to one case, but international precedents are also a source of international law and therefore creates a greater danger to the international legal order guaranteeing territorial integrity. This opinion is not only a threat to the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, because it cannot be a Sui Genis and cannot refer only to an individual case, even in the opinion of the International Court of Justice in The Hague and is not trying to impose. If we go back to the definition from the beginning, it gives us an answer to the question whether the legal order, including the international legal order, is created by the ruling, or whether it is a consensus of power? What if we made sure that was the case? Do we still need to use international law mechanisms, or international legal policies, and do we have an alternative at all? What other mechanisms can we use to protect the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia? Some of these measures and mechanisms have already been used unsuccessfully, and they are linked to even greater risks. The opposition today has not given a single convincing proposal, not a single convincing belief that we should change the draft policy of the RS government conducted by the foreign ministry. Finding a compromise that will be in line with international law, including respect for the country's sovereignty principles, must be looked for patiently. This policy should enable Serbs to remain in Kosovo and we believe that this is a key thing that we all here must represent, regardless of whether it is an opposition or a position. The struggle for Serbia's territorial sovereignty is not a question of one authority, not a question of one time. We must not take any steps that would make the position of Serbs and other non-Albanians at KIM difficult, but I am sure that the state of Serbia can do more to make the situation of Serbs and other non-Albanians in Kosovo better and that the return of displaced persons is sustainable. Our consistent policy, I am convinced, cannot ultimately be unsuccessful, nor remain lonely. That is why I call on all fellow MPs to support this decision, to support Serbs and non-Albanians living in KIM and all citizens who consider Serbia their homeland and living in KIM.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43690	The word is by MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43691	Ladies and gentlemen, we have listened carefully to Mr. Batakovic's legal team's presentation and have come to the conclusion that even on this legal team there were two opposing options. One was probably represented by Mr. Vojin Dimitrijevic, who has the extreme view that Slobodan Milosevic is guilty of all the bad things that have happened in the last 50 or 100 years. On the other hand, it is known that Mr Batakovic wrote many books on Kosovo and explained in a reasoned way that these problems had arisen long before, since the famous act of the Titoist Yugoslavia in 1946, when it was forbidden for Serbs to return to Kosovo. Some 100,000 people had no right to return to Kosovo. He also criticised the 1974 Constitution and the 1968 and 1971 amendments. So it is clear that there was no style in this legal team, which worked and fought for Serbia's interests before the International Court of Justice, was mildly said. As for the foreign ministry, we believe that the minister had no bad intentions, even if he had a good intention when he tried 2008 and launched an initiative that ended with a kind of success when the General Assembly, if I am not mistaken, with 77:74 abstentions and 6 against, made a request to the International Court of Justice to plead and give its opinion on Kosovo's Declaration of Independence. However, not only is the foreign environment limited, but several months later, another type of state policy that shows The Hague has no alternative led to the collapse of the initiative in front of the International Court of Justice. I'll give you a concrete example. Somewhere, if I'm not mistaken, on February 26th 2009, a verdict was reached in the Milutinovic case and remained, and then the top military and police officials were sentenced to dragon sentences in prison, and this was the US delegation's main argument before the International Court of Justice. So you are trying to do something by means of legal means and to improve Serbia's position ahead of the violent recognitions of Kosovo's independence and, on the other hand, it is collapsing because the UN tribunal, which allegedly has no alternative, was the main argument of the US delegation on 8 December 2009. The same date was also submitted by the Russian delegation and was attended by the Russian Federation ambassador, who called for Resolution 1244. So, the Americans have called on The Hague tribunal, the Russians to Resolution 1244, and it is scandalous that there is no invitation to Resolution 1244 in this declaration, and it is scandalous that you have not adopted our amendment, but you have adopted an amendment that is in fact easing this resolution, which is on the verge of a kind of legal nihilism or defetism, however you will. Also, the ministry has obviously faced limiting factors, as the real issue that should have been sent to the International Court of Justice – is the unilateral declaration of Kosovo's independence, declared by the provisional institutions with the help of the United States? It was a real definition that would come up with the essence of things. If it is not true what we claim, then the government and the government in this country should convince us that Bondsteel is not illegally raised on the Serbian country, to convince us that America is not the first country in the world to recognise Kosovo's independence and to convince us that Joseph Bideen's invitation to Serbia was not a kind of bold diplomatic, political and any other provocations. Also, the SRS delegation participated in a diplomatic academy meeting at the Russian Federation's Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 2010, on 30 January. At the time, there was talk of the Russian Federation's relationship to international courts. Believe me, the worst grades were given to The Hague tribunal. See today in this context and a statement by the head of the fourth department of the Russian Foreign Ministry, former Ambassador to Serbia, Mr Alexeiev, and you will see that you have a diplomatic, political space, to show some kind of political courage and to submit a request together with the Russian Federation for the UN war crimes of the UN tribunal. In this way, you will also facilitate the diplomatic position of the Republic of Serbia before the announced new recognitions of the so-called so-called ". Kosovo. Of course, in this sense, do not expect, it is clear that in the context of the famous statement by Sergey Lavrov of 18 February 2007, the Russians will be greater Serbs than Serbs, but that you should show a kind of political courage and dignity. Also, the proposal for a decision we are considering today states that Serbia will never explicitly or implicitly recognise Kosovo's independence. Please, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, any first year of college student when he reads Articles 6, 10, 14, 16 and 88, will see that the EU requires a kind of good neighbourly relationship with so-called. Kosovo. It is an implicit recognition of Kosovo and Metohija. That should be made clear. If you are studying the way the EU works, you will see that they are just insisting on ambiguous provisions that can be interpreted as a kind of pressure and as a kind of preparation for what is not difficult to predict. The president of Serbia certainly knows that the European Council is exactly the super-institution in the EU that is above the European Parliament, above the European Commission and above even the Council of Ministers, which we talked about tonight. What will happen, I specifically ask, if, after the adoption of the provisions of the Lisbon Treaty, it is 2014, under the qualified majority of 55% of the present heads of state and government in the European Council, that Serbia must agree to the opening of some kind of diplomatic representation of the Republic of Kosovo in Serbia? It will be a condition that will be very difficult for you, through neither the European Parliament nor any other institution to bring down. In this sense, diplomatic and political activity must possess a kind of economic patriotism. What's economic patriotism? It's modern nationalism. Modern nationalism that is about to show one kind of economic courage and, what doesn't say openly, look at how Sartid operates, look at what the monopoly price of electricity has, look at the environmental conditions in that factory, and there's always an alternative to another investment. I'm going to list at least five or six Russian companies also large in the area that will invest much better in this area. Also, why don't you say that, you have over 200 or 150 Croatian companies here, there is no reciprocity in that area towards Croatia. This should be understood as a kind of economic patriotism that is necessary and must follow these political and legal actions. Also, if you look at the 1961 and 1969 Vienna Declaration, which is prescribed in Article 22, that the parties must stick to the provisions of the treaty and be well-intentioned, you will see that your American partners, first of all, and their EU followers, have not met any of the items in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement without talking about the Dayton Agreement, that I am not talking about Resolution 1244. In that sense, you need to know who you're dealing with. Also when the minister was last in this assembly about a year ago, and that's one of our biggest grudges to him, he must have been elected for more foreign exchanges. He was not obliged to accept the budget rebalancing, where giving to the foreign ministry was reduced by 20% by the IMF, and a month after that, Kosovo was admitted to the IMF and that is what Joseph Biden, a friend of Serbia, said in a pathetic manner in Pristina. In the end, the real question that is raised in front of all of us why has America been leading such an enemy policy for 20 years, no matter what the authorities change, no matter what the phrases change, etc.? If you look at what's going on in the Middle East, you'll see that US anti-Muslim politics in Israel, Iraq, Afghanistan is compensated here in the Balkans. That's clear. Look, in 1999 a Palestinian state was to be declared. No, but Serbia was bombed. A map of the road has been declared. George Bush has declared a map of the road. In 2008, the Palestinian state was to be declared, but it did not, so-called. Independent Kosovo. In that sense, you need to change politics and face real reality in international relations and turn to our historical partners, which is, above all, the Russian Federation. You should consider, there is a customs alliance between Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, and Ukraine will likely join soon. There is also a collective security agreement where Russia leads seven countries. It is one step that shows that the EU has an alternative, shows that you have dignity and shows that you have a thoughtful policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43692	The People's MP, Jelena Trivan, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43693	Dear President, Mr. Prime Minister, President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that at the end of this difficult but very meaningful day I have the opportunity to address you and agree with all the MPs who before me said this was a great day for Serbia and that what we needed in this day was the truth. True, but also the unity we will show before the people. Today we have been able, some of us have taken advantage of, to tell citizens honestly and honestly what it is when it comes to Kosovo that we inherited, what it is that we have had, what it is that we have actually lost and what it is that we now have in our hands to continue to do and to preserve our sovereignty. This was also an opportunity to show our dignity and show our unity, an opportunity to rise above politics and show that there are some things that are more valuable and more important than day-to-day political interests and headlines. Some took that opportunity, some lit their cheeks, and some didn't. However, it is important that at the end of the day we draw the line and tell the truth. The last thing that can be accepted as true is that the government of Mirko Cvetkovic is responsible for losing Kosovo. I deeply believe that there is no child, no one in Serbia who believes that the government that took office at the time that Kosovo has already declared its independence can be held responsible for historical mistakes, historical failures and all the problems it has inherited. I am not going to take the steps of my political opposition, I am not going to look for the guilty, I am not going to look for an alibi, I am just going to say simply – this where we are today is the result of a lot of bad estimates, a lot of bad moves and even worse solutions, a lot of thoughtlessness both on our part and by the international community. This where we are today is the result of a simple fact that we are one small country, with limited resources in every way, and we should face it. But what's also true is that this government with such limited resources has done everything, but absolutely everything in its power. The only thing she hasn't reached for is a weapon, and if it's her fault, then I'm glad you gentlemen from the government made a mistake. What is being asked today as a question as we all talk about a new policy, a different policy, is what the content of this new policy is. Sadly, today in the congregation debate, we have not been able to hear it. We've been able to hear a lot of reasoned criticism, but also a lot of empty criticism, but we haven't been able to hear what the alternative is. The solutions the government had before it came down to -- one thing is to recognise independence and give up every fight, and that was not possible, because it had neither the mandate nor the support of the citizens, nor constitutional powers. The second thing she could do, it is to go more radically into this diplomatic political struggle, as some political parties advocated. Is it the right way and do you think we'd get support for going further into confrontation with the world, deep down I don't believe. I do not believe that citizens who voted almost unitedly for their European future, for normal and civilized Serbia, to give the mandate to any government to wage war with the member states of the European Union, even in the legal field. My colleague Nikolic said that we had no courage to do so, I believe that we simply had no madness, or that we were wise enough to learn something from previous mistakes and not go further in the moves that this people and this country would take away from every normal life and normal future. When we talk about a concrete procedure before the International Court of Justice, it is also true and fair to say that all parties have supported our initiative in front of the United Nations, all these initiatives have applauded, and today, hoping to forget citizens, they call it the biggest defeat of this government. The fact is that it is not the biggest defeat, that it is not the crucial point in the fight for Kosovo, and that it is not the last. It's also a legitimate question, which has been opened here many times in discussions, whether someone should be held accountable for what happened. The issue would be so much more legitimate that there is a concrete platform behind it, a concrete solution, a political alternative to this government, which has a solution to the Kosovo issue and which could be ahead of citizens to come up with something wiser. Unfortunately, there is no such thing, and in that sense, as I said, it is one mere political profit, which has no place for Kosovo. That is why I need the government today to support any further diplomatic struggle, which will go towards preserving our sovereignty, but which will not close Serbia's door to the European Union. I remind you that this government has formed two foreign policy priorities. One is the accession to the European Union, the other is the preservation of sovereignty and that there has been good results in both of these fields so far. Sometimes weaker, sometimes better, but these two years things went forward. In this regard, we expect all of the moves that we are making in the United Nations to go towards opening a new door, new chances for Serbia, and to open opportunities for better co-operation with our European partners. It's not some irrational Europeanism, what I'm saying today, but the rational interest of this people to defend their interests with strong partners in a strong political alliance and never again be in a position to put some of his vital interests at risk. Today is not a day to give up on any of what I mentioned, and what we of the Democratic Party consider our priorities. Today is the day to tell the truth exactly what are the difficulties and challenges that are ahead of us, what are we to do, what are the chances of doing so. What is most important today is that unlike those who have not shown any plan, we have seen that the government knows where it is going, that it knows its objectives and that it has support and foreign policy partners. What we need to show the world today is that the government today has the support of both its people and its citizens, through the parliament in which we represent them. What I want to say in the end, to share with you, is one feeling of deep pride for the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia, who have accepted with dignity and calm the decision of the International Court of Justice, who have not succumbed to the provocations, which have shown that they are worthy of the history behind them. I call upon you today to be worthy of the citizens we represent, to support the government together and give her a chance to find a solution that would leave the country unburdened by the problems of history for the next generations.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43694	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. You have 13 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43695	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, today we are talking about something called lawfulness, and in that principle there is something that says predictability. So, in advance, we know what's going to happen, so let's narrow it down to the consequences. Experts in the area are psychologists. Just to remind you, Mrs Djukic Dejanovic, in 1999, when the Ahtisaari-Cernomidin plan was adopted, there was only one party who voted against the plan. Everyone supported the plan and finally said Kosovo and Metohija are coming to the UN, and these are our friends. The decision resulted in Resolution 1244, which guaranteed territorial integrity and sovereignty at the time of the SRJ in Kosovo and Metohija. Later, it interpreted the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. I have to remind you now of this kind of continuity legislation, and I remember a DS vice president who tried to hold a session of a main committee on Kosovo and Metohija in 2001, he was banned from entering. I remember in 2001, on January 25th, when a new, allegedly first democratic government was formed, it was said, we will fulfill our pre-election promises in September 2000, for God in Kosovo and Metohija not occupiers but our friends, they have understanding of our political views. Just to remind you, when it comes to aggression against the SRJ, NATO and the United States have repeatedly changed the reasons why they intervened. They said for the first time, the reason was humanitarian disaster, 800,000 expelled, the second time they saw that it was essentially not the main reason, so they said, we wanted to take down the international regime of Slobodan Milosevic, and a year and a half ago Javier Solana said, so we wanted to make you accept European standards. Look, confused navigation to seduce order in Kosovo and Metohija, hit Novi Sad, hit Podgorica, etc. I remember a president of the Republic of Serbia who warmly hailed Agim Ceku because of the fog at an airport, and he was on the chase. It's said, so as possible, so he says, I said goodbye to him as a soldier, I give him credit as a soldier, and he was accused of being a war criminal. I remember a small minister who came from abroad, he was Deputy Prime Minister, in that old building he yelled, let's go, let's go to the EU. To say after six months that the National Assembly is a black hole, it is missing today, probably counting those actions, since three months ago it defended a law that was supposed to confirm an agreement where Belgrade received a sixm-euro gift. You know, I haven't heard that an international conference has been held in the past few years since democracy on the subject of Kosovo and Metohija in the composition of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, I did not expect this international conference by Vojin Dimitrijevic, Sonja Licht, Sonja Biserko, Natasa Kandic. Here, let me give you an example, let's say, Butros Butros Galli in 1992 invited 78 leading professors of international law to say what they think of the International Court, of some formation, etc. Everyone said negative, it's impossible. Just to remind you, the two resolutions concerning the UN tribunal in the documentation, in an explanation, contain incorrect data in the reports. Of course, this was later determined by the UN tribunal's individual verdicts. What else do you say? The European Union kidnaps Kosovo and Metohija in NATO, not only kidnaps but also forms Kosovo Protection Forces. It'll be 2,500 soldiers plus 800 reserves. You know, you're drinking coffee with the NATO Pact, and this is where it takes some of your territory. Now let me explain one thing to these always-informed Democrats. I don't know how you interpret it, but the Government of the Republic of Serbia has written a motion for a decision on July 25th and submitted on July 25th at 10am and 50 minutes of the proposal for this National Assembly decision on the opinion of the International Court of Justice on the legality of the unilaterally declared independence of the provisional institutions of Kosovo and Metohija and the continuation of activities etc. You, Mr. Jeremic, just now accepted the amendments that were written on July 13th 2010. These are some Brusselsian, three Brussels amendments, to fix their part of the text. I remember one said – dear Solana, thank you for everything you've done to us. Solana ordered the bombing of SRJ and Solana, when he came down from the post of High Commissioner for Security and Foreign Policy of the EU, a man returned to Spain. Asked him -- Mr Solana, do you still represent as a Spanish now that the EU must recognise independent Kosovo, he said -- for God's sake, so I am Spanish, Spain will never recognise independent Kosovo. Gentlemen of the Democratic Party, someone cheated on you. Whether the flying foreign minister, Mr. Vuk Jeremic, you spoke nicely of the first point of the proposed decision, but I must warn you, after the adoption of the Brussels amendments, it is no longer a text, for nothing, it is something else. This is already, as you can see, quite a done deal. We're strong for the experience of the Badenter Commission. We are strong for some experience from the end of 1991, when at that time the European Community called on the former republic to request everyone to recognise independence. We are strong for the experience of the Dayton Agreement. We are strong to experience that autonomous provinces do not have those rights. We are strong for the experience that since 2000 no government has opened the main topic of Kosovo and Metohija. Excuse me, please, according to the UN Charter, under Security Council Resolution 1244, status has been resolved. Talks on broad autonomy and core self-government should continue. What was Dosov government doing? Let me remind you, Resolution 1244, with the accompanying documents, has nine points. It's never been asked to achieve the first point. The first point is security, the second point of return, and only there is the seventh-eightth review of the issues of autonomy and self-government within the Republic of Serbia. Let me remind you of Covic's field trip. For him, terrorists who went to temporary institutions were no longer terrorists but extremists. Let me remind you that one Serbian president urged Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija to vote in Kosovo's elections for temporary institutions. Let me remind you of many things that prove you're wrong. You were wrong because you tied up with the EU, fulfilled everything the EU wants. Look at the paradoxal situation, and today you're saying that you're in friendly relations with the United States and that you've reached agreement on all issues, you're even agreeing that you're not in agreement with Kosovo and Metohija. It's called a backstabbing theory. Today, we hear EU foreign ministers say -- they can do anything, but not status. I remember you once said standards then status. You've turned everything upside down. Obviously you need to do some dirty work. Is there any possibility in front of the General Assembly that something might be done? Probably exists as long as Russia and China have the right to veto the Security Council. Is there any space coming up? I'm sure there's always some space. One question is self-determination, another question is secession, the third question is how someone interprets independence. Two years ago, I advised you to use the Nicaragua test only in front of the International Court of Justice. You didn't want to use that. Just to remind you, once the United States of America called the KLA a terrorist organization. The moment that banker took off his shoes, crossed his legs, they became a liberating army. Just to remind you that the issue of Kosovo and Metohija within Serbia is not only a question of people living in Kosovo and Metohija, it is a question of the whole Serbian people. Let me remind you, after the Dayton Agreement, someone in Republika Srpska made decisions and carried out a revision of the Dayton Agreement, he handed over to the BiH Army, handed over to the police, handed over customs, and today they complain. Don't trust the West. We need a single policy that puts our interests first. But are you running that policy? You ratify all possible agreements with countries that have recognised an independent Kosovo. Finally, one paradigm to give you – Nelson Mendela spent 28 years in prison. The citizens of South Africa protested against apartheid every day. You have our support if we should fight for Serbia, for the Serbian people and for our vital interests, but if this decision should be a knife in the back or fog thrown to everyone, then take care, we also warned you the day you adopted the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. You opened our market. There's no use for us. Serbia can get credit for the highway, for the water, for anything, but not one for the workplace. The Italians strike yesterday, they don't let the new Fiat model be produced in Kragujevac. Everyone takes care of themselves first, then acts out some humanity and respect for international law. I don't want to believe that the issue of Kosovo and Metohija is closed, but I just want to draw attention to the fact that you are able to publicly twist every word of ours, the fact that you are able to present our criticism as our disagreement with the struggle to preserve the Republic of Serbia on your entire territory does not give you the right not to consider this criticism and our proposals. Just because we support one such decision doesn't mean we're sharing views with you about how you're going to deal with it. Keep an eye out, our direction is east, Russia, where our interests are respected, not west, where our hands are wrapped, the damage is done, and nothing good is done. This prank may have worked, maybe you've succeeded with these amendments. Remember, just before the International Court of Justice's opinion on the issue, you only launched it, but the formally-legal General Assembly opened this topic, you will remember one fact, the moment the resolution was adopted in the General Assembly of Montenegro, the next day it recognised independent Kosovo. Keep an eye out, you don't have any blank support, we just want to help preserve our interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43696	Since there are no more word statements on the lists of MPs, I ask if anyone who has not used the right of Article 93 has ever taken advantage of it. Does the Rules of Procedure want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr Branko Ružić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43697	Mr. President, honourable ministers, Mr. Prime Minister, honourable presidents, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, after nearly 11 hours of very argumentative and difficult debate on this very important issue, we have come practically to the moment when we need to define this motion for a decision that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has made, and, of course, the advisory opinion given by the International Court of Justice in The Hague. It is evident that this advisory opinion and the outcome itself is difficult, but it cannot be marked as defeat, nor must we, nor should it be seen as someone's victory. It is evident that this is the fruit of a distorted interpretation of Resolution 1244, which has been approached in one selective way in those parts that do not treat the issue of sovereignty and integrity of our country, which, in accordance with Resolution 1244, has the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. Here we have heard a series of historical data, a series of things and events that have followed us all these years, and when we go back into history, we could blame many of our predecessors for this situation that we may have today, but we in the SPS-JS think we should turn to the future. We don't think we can propagate any defetism here. We believe that we have a responsibility, first of all, towards the citizens of Serbia who chose us here and gave us this legitimacy, because they are the rightful holders of our country's sovereignty. We believe that this struggle is practically only in its first phase, it has only just begun, in the right and only possible way, so diplomatic, political means in those international institutions that have the power to decide. When we fought at the UN General Assembly for the right to the International Court of Justice to give that advisory opinion, we launched something that, unfortunately, we were not in a position to do. Regardless of the outcome of this advisory opinion, that is, the work of the International Court of Justice, we cannot selectively approach the decisions of that same court. We believe that here in no way in this advisory opinion is the issue of secession or secession of KIM, and therefore we have no reason to look at this situation in one defetistic way or even, God forbid, nihilistically. What is evident is that the official Belgrade, the state of Serbia, will never, nor can it recognise this self-proclaimed independence of KIM. What is also important, because of citizens, is that we propose this resolution in consultation with all relevant political factors in the international arena, therefore, and with permanent members of the Security Council, and with the EU, to see which is the threshold to which these countries would go, and what is it that will not distort our national and national interest. We have time, we have this possibility, and I think we need to use it in a wise, dedicated, consistent way and go into this process that is our only chance to fight for what international law and the UN Charter guarantee. This is not a topic for political upgrades, this is not a topic on which some political option or political party could garner points, and some others would lose them. All these attempts have proved unsuccessful in some recent past and history for the simple reason that from the Kosovo color, through many other historical events, to the Prizren League, first and second, to these separatist tendencies and iredentist tendencies that were both in the time of the kingdom, both at the time of Josip Broz and at the time of Slobodan Milosevic and continuing to this day, we see one continuity that is present, to say conditionally, on the other hand. Unfortunately, throughout history, there has been a constant disunity over state strategic issues, and I think we all carry together, therefore, representatives of all political parties, at least fragmentary, someone less, someone more, responsibility for everything that's been going on and going on at KIM. We should take that responsibility in the right way today, to achieve this through the necessary unity or the highest degree of consensus, in order to demonstrate to those who have chosen us here, therefore, to the citizens of Serbia, but also to the international public, to have the power, to have the will, to have the potential and resources, both diplomatic and political, to achieve what our goal is. It won't be easy at all and of course we have to bear in mind how important we are, how important we are, what is our geostrategic position and what is going through history on these fields and on this territory, so in the Balkans, what has always been going on, and what has always been the upper hand, whether it was the interests of the great forces, which, of course, was, or was it exclusively a legal principle. It is evident that, to a large extent, this advisory opinion has been taken above all by political arguments over legal arguments, but that is the reality in which we live, that is the reality that we must not close our eyes before and that is the reality that we must speak very clearly, openly, transparently both in the Assembly and in our citizens, because this is the reality that we are going with, live and strive to resolve and coordinate our state interests and our policy. There have been major criticisms here that are, of course, welcome, but I don't think anyone has been able to address the recognition of the President of the Republic, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Minister of Foreign Affairs for what they did in these previous two years on this plan. I think this may be not the best, but this is the only way that can lead to some success, and I think that requires consensus. It is very important that one of the strongest opposition parties in one constructive way approaches the nuance of this decision, i.e. the proposal for a decision, and wants to vote to strengthen the front in the further fight to preserve integrity and sovereignty, as well as other opposition parties. I think the point is that we've used more than 90% of the time on political supersedes that don't bring us any benefits, they don't bring the effect, they don't show the vision that citizens need over. We need to make it clear and loud that we are going to fight, that we are never going to back down, and that right now, real political is the only solution to do so in front of the UN, where it is where it decides on a question like this. But it is also important to know that KIM is not a subject of international law and the right to secession and secession has not been considered at the International Court of Justice. So, this folk hot potato was transferred to the UN General Assembly. (President: Time. It is important that we make a very wise approach to this, to prepare this resolution together, I repeat, with all consultations, with all relevant political centres on the international arena and that perhaps for the next five, ten, 20 years... (President: Mr. Rose, bring the end. I'm done, I'm sorry... We persist in this fight and defend our national and national interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43698	Do you, Mr. President, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the President of the Republic, Mr Boris Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43699	Madam President of the Assembly, Prime Minister, honourable MPs and members of the government, I think we can find together that today's discussion of the Serbian Parliament was, in the most part, principled, very constructive and contributed to the discussion of the topic and all the challenges it brings with it, while opening up the possibility of dialogue and agreement between various political and social groups in our society on an extremely important and very painful topic, which is the topic of KIM. On the other hand, this discussion has also opened many other topics that are not under the title of the call for this session of parliament, but at the same time some issues have been raised that have also been referred to me as the President of the Republic. Of course, I will take the opportunity to answer some of these questions that I can answer in a democratic spirit, respecting parliament and all parliamentary groups, literally all the parliamentary groups and all the MPs who have discussed here, both the opposition and the ruling majority. In all, I think I was a member of parliament for some 15 years and I participated in all discussions in parliament on Kosovo, which as an MP, vice president of the assembly, head of the parliamentary club, minister or president of the Republic of Serbia. I think that this discussion was the calmest, most targeted towards the goal and the problems that hit us together, and that in this discussion there were the least difficult words, words that could have offended someone and moved the focus of our attention in the wrong direction. At the same time we can talk about KIM from different angles, but we all agreed that this problem exists, here in our newest history of 145 years, since 1875. If we took our entire history, from the Great Peasant in 1690. The last 50 years in the Serbian parliament, since 1968, there has been a very complex and difficult discussion on KIM. In this very home in 1968, I was ten years old and in my house, I remember perfectly, it was then discussed in the Yugoslav parliament about the problems at KIM, about what the solution to KIM was, from 1968 to today. We, objectively speaking, have so far not submitted a solution to KIM, to the challenge of Serbia, the Serbian people and the condition of the entire Southeast Europe's space. In political terms, every time after that 1968, it was harder to find a compromise and sustainable solution, in which to the best extent and to the greatest extent protected not only the interests of the Republic of Serbia, but also the entire Serbian people and the entire non-Albanian living on KIM. Kosovo's theme affects every man in Serbia. This time I will avoid those high qualifications or qualifications that have a lot of energy charges in them, that is the greatest Serbian word – that Kosovo is Serbia, that everything else without Kosovo does not exist, that Kosovo is the most important issue of Serbia etc. Kosovo is a matter of exceptional importance, however, we are a country facing many temptations and many challenges in every step, from infrastructure, unresolved health problems in Serbia, education, technological lagging, security challenges we face, preparedness for political dialogue and the establishment of compromise. In our case, the word compromise was generally experienced in a diabolical way and was not seen as a political value. On my part, I tried to enter a different tone into the debate on all issues in Serbia. I hope that one part of it has worked, making sure that it is in the future, because I think it is very important to reach the highest possible level of agreement on central issues that affect Serbia, its future and its citizens. Kosovo is certainly one of these topics. What I can conclude is that the central discussions in this Parliament during today's day, primarily of the liberal parties and the president of the parliamentary groups, have not accused anyone, not this government, not the previous government, not all previous governments. There's one general awareness that the KiM problem is a time-transcendant problem, which exists for a very long time and for which it's very complex to find the most responsible. My discussion will not contribute to who is most responsible for the problem that affects all of us today. I think it would be extremely untasteful if I were to blame anyone who was acting as President of the Republic, or Prime Minister before I was president of the Republic of Serbia today. I don't even think we're identifying that so-called. responsibilities wouldn't lead anywhere. Today we are in this situation, in a situation right now. In this time, this is our point of existence where we need to find an answer to the challenge that is affecting us today. This is the challenge of our generation and each time that challenge is at least partly different from the day before, two days earlier, a year earlier, five, ten or 20 years earlier. What's very important is that we preserve and always expand our capacities and potentials, to run an active policy on KIM. Passive policy is a policy of stasis, which has not led us anywhere. She was just reducing our potential to defend our legitimate interests. Now let me open another question in this place. I tried as president of the Republic of Serbia, after the complex and difficult 1990s, to re-lead a policy of legitimacy of national interests. In a way, after 5 October 2000, the topic of national interest was put on the other side. Sometimes both our public and our political debaters, participants in public, intellectual life, confused one of the wrong understandings of the nature of the state. I talked about it once. It was largely established in some informal way that the opposite of the civil state is a national state. It's not the national state that's opposed to the civil state. The opposite of the civil state is a religious state. The national state and the subject of the nation and legitimate national interests is the subject of a civil state and every civil society. I want as President of the Republic from this highest political place in Serbia, the Serbian Parliament, all to say and thus to approach one big topic, which is a national topic. I don't delegate any other national topic. I would now, as President of the Republic, right in the Serbian Parliament, like to open the issue once more. Some MPs before me and presidents of high-level forums in Serbia talked about it in the past decades, and the Albanian national issue is one legitimate issue, extremely important for both the Serbian people and the Serbian national issues. We as a nation live in decades of conflict and my intention is not only to build the infrastructure of this society, health, education, scientific modernisation and democratisation of society, building roads, railways, contributing to the stability and authority of parliament and all other institutions of this country, it is my intention to try, during my term as president of Serbia, to deprive Serbia of the national conflicts in which it has been immersed for decades behind us. Sometimes even, I have an impression, in some unusual way, that the purpose of politics is to deepen conflicts. The purpose of politics is to deprive the country and citizens of the conflict, to make society less conflicting. Confrontations and conflicts do not lead Serbia and the Serb people anywhere. Confrontations and conflicts between Serbia, the Serbian people and Serbian citizens lead to poverty, technological lagging, lead Serbia from democracy to dictatorship, from telling the truth towards manipulation of the use of public words. We have several conflicts in which Serbia and the Serbian people were immersed in the previous decade. The Serbian-Albanian conflict beyond anything in KIM can be characterised as a conflict over the struggle for living space. It's very simple, and today it's about fighting for living space. When I talk about it to my interlocutors in the international community, they suspiciously spin their heads because they don't live in the Balkans, but they do. The conflict between the Serbian and Croatian peoples in the last wars and the Second World War, it also exists, and tension in Serbian Croatian relations has always retaliated stability in the former Yugoslavia, and represented one problem, one point that we have always had to overcome in the past decades to move towards modernisation and development. The Bosniak or Muslim-Serbian conflict is the third conflict that characterizes both the former Yugoslavia and our existence, and its forms and transformations we see today. I believe that our obligation, all MPs in the Serbian Parliament, the Prime Minister and Minister and President of the Republic, is to lead a policy that draws Serbia from a source of conflict, from confrontations not only with neighbours, not only with neighbouring peoples with whom we live in this common area of the Western Balkans, but also with great forces. There have been many topics and discussions here about our relationship with the great powers. Serbia, whatever it is, whoever is leading it and whatever time Serbia exists, it must have the best possible relations with the great powers. Every other policy of Serbia, I say that as the President of the Republic, I stand behind these words and here I am responsible for them, and I am dating them not only before you, but also before the citizens of Serbia, every different policy of Serbia, a policy of confrontation with great forces, leads Serbia directly to ruin. Serbian citizens would go towards new poverty and technological and educated Serbia would lag behind, and we in such circumstances would not be able to run a policy that takes care of our national interests. All those who believe that, on behalf of the deepest national objectives, we must enter into confrontation with the greatest forces in fact, speak one illogical position because confrontation with the greatest powers deprives us of the opportunity to defend the deepest and legitimate national interests. As President of the Republic, my obligation to the Constitution is to take care of and defend the interests of every citizen, every national, ethnic and social group, as well as the national interests of the state of Serbia and the Serbian people. It's my duty. In each of these fields, I have to fulfil my constitutional obligations and anyone who performs the duties of the President of the Republic in the future will have to rule. As for KIM, let me direct your attention once again to this central topic of parliamentary debate of our today's Assembly. There were different solutions in 2008 -- which went further after the previous government, which also led a discussion in a democratic tone. There were also different opinions in this government, which were then made by DS and DSS, as well as other coalition partners, but about the KIM policy we had unity in the government and was the basis, i.e. the assumption of unity of the then ruling coalition. On several occasions in the assembly debate, we have achieved a high degree of political unity of this parliament when Kosovo's topic is on the agenda. Never an absolute unity, and that's not necessary. You don't always have to strive, at all costs, for absolute unity. Then why the parliament? There should be different forms of opinion. That's why there's democracy, a warning that maybe we're wrong when we, with all our strength and full conviction, represent the attitude with which we go before the citizens. It is always important to have one corrective mechanism because it is the assumption of democracy. The last months of the previous government were characterized by a difficult and complex discussion – which way to international legal institutions? We have come to the realization that after the unilateral declaration of Kosovo's independence, it is necessary to make a great effort to move this topic from a political level to a legal field. Now I come to the opportunity to respond to Vesni Pesic. In politics sometimes we do not choose the plane in which we will rule, in which we will make moves, but this field or this new reality comes in itself. When we suffered many and grave defeats and great temptations at political level, we were interested in moving on to the field of international law, because our arguments were still very strong. More specifically, in terms of political forces, that and children in Serbia know, we had a big problem when it comes to KIM. We faced the temptation that the world's largest and most powerful countries, or at least among the greatest and most powerful, were those who recognised and supported Kosovo's strong independence. It's an actual state of affairs and a political fact that we had to consider. It was normal for the then government to think about how to transfer this topic to the field of international law. I think that was a good decision. There were twice. One time it was to pursue a lawsuit against some of the countries that recognised the independence of KIM to the International Court of Justice. The second idea was to make a request through the International Court of Justice Resolution, the UN General Assembly resolution, to request an advisory opinion from the UN Security Council's most legal institution, which the whole world takes with respect. That is why the International Court of Justice's opinion, I agree here with those debaters who have highlighted it, must not deny it and must not deny it, because that is why we are once again returning to the policy of the negation of international institutions. We cannot do that at any cost if we want to be a respectable factor in the international community, without which we can again find no answer for the solution to KIM. It's impossible to do that in terms of isolation. We can only do it with the international community and only with the greatest forces, which have the greatest impact on international politics, without neglecting the importance and small states, as we are a small country, without hurting anyone. So it was a dilemma. The DSS thought, I'm talking about that time, about that moment, I apologize, no offense, respecting the DSS and her position... Can I have some water in the meantime? It wouldn't be bad. Do you want me to leave? You won't? It's a good thing you don't. The DSS found it necessary... Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, don't let the topic disturb your attention because you said that Kosovo is the most important topic, especially you of the SRS, and it would not be good for this topic, which is completely insignificant, to disrupt your attention. The DSS felt at that point that it was necessary to apply the strongest possible legal measure i.e. The suit against one of the countries that recognised Kosovo to the International Court of Justice in The Hague, because the measure, more specifically, is the International Court of Justice's decision, is ultimate and because it produces direct consequences for the country being sued. I'm not running away from responsibility for any decision I made today. I am known to take even responsibility for those issues that are not in my constitutional jurisdiction. I want you to do the same, because the lack of responsibility here in Serbia is a chronic disease. And Shormaz nods his head. I guess he knows what I mean. So my position was then, and it is now that such a, that a legal approach that is legitimate absolutely would not produce a result because such a legal approach would be directed against the greatest forces that have generally recognised Kosovo's independence. For what? Because we are still witnessing today that there is no institution in the world that is deprived of political influence. It's actually normal, because politics is in everything and politics is an integral part of life. That should also be said to the citizens of Serbia as one of the truths. There is no institution in the world, from the UN to the various institutions of the UN, legal, health, scientific, developmental, which are deprived of political influence, and everyone who deals with politics knows very well. This is in extreme case and normal, because policy is a form of articulation of the interests of individual countries, individual peoples. It means that Serbia has sued a smaller country, e.g. Maldives, the International Court of Justice, would view those countries that have the greatest influence in international politics as the hereditary situation in which we found ourselves, in a legal sense, as an attack on ourselves. In that sense, they would certainly use their political influence and the certainty of a legal procedure that would be in our favor is very small. I believe and believe that the opinion we asked the International Court of Justice was a more comprehensive solution. First, it did not deprive us of the possibility of a second-step lawsuit. Secondly, it increased our chances of success. Of course, today we see that this approach has not been successful either. Serbia, objectively, I want to say this once more in front of you and the citizens of Serbia, has suffered a severe blow. I, as president of the Republic, had a difficult blow. Do not blame Vuk Jeremic for his opinion before the International Court of Justice. He's not even the author of that idea, he wasn't into it. That idea was created in a bachelorette, in a legal discussion with legal experts. Vuk Jeremic has excellently conducted and operated on the idea and invested enormous personal energy, bigger than any of Serbia's foreign ministers in the past few decades. That has to be determined. So, ladies and gentlemen, when you think about politics and think that it's only run from the assembly benches or the presidential chair, or the ministerial chair, I have to tell you that things look very different. In practice, they seem very brutal to the one who has to conduct politics. You have to work very hard and travel around the world, and it's sometimes not easy, using arguments in forums and international institutions that often have no hearing about what you're saying. Why aren't they hearing? Because they have conflicting interests or interests that are articulated in a different way than Serbia's interests. Besides, I don't have to overexplain it, we've all witnessed it for the past two decades. We have now found ourselves in a situation where the International Court of Justice has made a decision saying that the unilateral declaration of Kosovo's independence is practically in agreement with international law. There was something different about that decision. Those who say we should approach that decision now, as I say, personally or in a simple way, it is such a decision and it is almost, very wrong. Every legal decision of every court must be carefully analysed. If this decision is analysed by Catherine Ashton, if the decision is analysed by Joe Biden, if the decision is analysed by every chief, every president of the EU country, even the states that have recognised Kosovo's independence, such a decision with full caution and attention must be analysed by us in Serbia. I held talks with all the people I mentioned to you and many others the day the International Court of Justice sat down, because Serbia was once again focused on attention. To all, to avoid any dilemma, I said Serbia would never recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence. Serbia is ready to continue negotiations on the status of Kosovo and Metohija, Serbia is ready to find a solution in a compromise way and a solution is not in which one party gets everything, i.e. Kosovo Albanians, and Serbs, Serbian people and Serbia lose everything. I said it wasn't a sustainable solution and it was pushing things under the carpet. It is the basis of every conversation I have as President of the Republic with statesmen from other countries. In the same way, Prime Minister Cvetkovic and Foreign Minister, as well as Deputy Prime Ministers, say, because we have a coherent state policy, as we have always had a harmonised state policy. The reactions are different. I need those who thought someone was blackmailing Serbia and threatening Serbia, I need to deprive you of that pleasure. No one was blackmailing and threatening at that point, everyone just said – try to find a realistic solution, we need Serbia in the EU, we want Serbia as an important factor in regional policy. One of you will say – it is excessive, etc. I'm telling you, that's how it happened, and I'm standing right in front of you. So these are the true things that concerned my conversation with foreign statesmen that day. Did we solve the problem? We haven't solved the problem. Is there a problem? There's still a problem. Are we hiding something from the citizens of Serbia? We're not hiding anything from the citizens of Serbia. Today I heard from the LDP parliamentary group that it is necessary to tell citizens the truth. I think I've always told the citizens the truth, and I've always been, because I've been telling the truth, attacked by different groups. I also said before the negotiations on Kosovo's future status, which we led during the past government, that Kosovo is closer to independence than essential autonomy. I said that in front of the citizens of Serbia, to remind you. I said it as President of the Republic because I thought it was the truth that should not be hidden from the citizens and should not be fooled by the citizens. I was attacked by many at the time, but I said so. I still think it's the same situation, but that doesn't mean we have the right to stop fighting. It's not just our constitutional obligation, it's our moral obligation, it's our human obligation. As President of the Republic, I will never stop fighting. If someone thinks it's politically comprehensive, it's a matter of those political groups that have such opinions and let them come to the public with that opinion. As President of the Republic, I will never stop fighting for our interests in Kosovo, for the interests of our citizens, for the interests of all people who want a compromise and peaceful solution for Kosovo and Metohija. So today I want to send a message to Serbs and non-Albanians living in Kosovo that Serbia is not giving up fighting for Kosovo, that we are taking care of Serbs living in Kosovo, that we will take care of them in the future, but not only of Serbs, for all who want to find a solution for Kosovo within the state of Serbia. We don't give up on that. I also want to send a message to Albanians in Kosovo -- Serbia defends its legitimate interests, Serbia will never wage war in Kosovo and Metohija again, Serbia wants to resolve this problem peacefully. Serbia wants peace policy to solve Kosovo's problem. Gentlemen, this is no time for great patriotism, it's time for great deeds. I do not want to hurt the feelings of anyone in this House, but I must tell you, as confrontation with great forces is a direct way to lose our integrity in Kosovo and Metohija, so the war is even more direct and faster to lose our rights and opportunities for all time to defend Kosovo and Metohija. If what we experienced at the end of the 1990s is not enough science, I must say that I have no right on behalf of the citizens of Serbia because they voted for a different policy, to rule and behave in a different way as President of the Republic. It is my constitutional obligation, because I must respect the will of the citizens of Serbia, and the will of the citizens of Serbia is above all peace, agreement, compromise, settlement. Serbia must not give up on that. What do we want, what's our goal? Now we come to what the LDP has asked as a question. Not only the modernisation of Serbia, our goal is to reach a solution to all open issues through negotiations. We want negotiations. What kind of negotiations? Let me not insist on the form of negotiations at all, I'm interested in the essence. Whether we can achieve the goal, which is a sustainable solution to Serbia's integrity, to the survival of Serbia's state in Kosovo and Metohija, to protect our people, our cultural identity in Kosovo and Metohija, for our cultural heritage. That's what we need to be interested in. It's a very practical policy. Someone will say here, and there have been such discussions, this is about continuity in politics. This is about a kind of continuity, but it's also about continuous innovations in politics. We'll be back in a moment. Do you think we have sued countries that have recognised Kosovo to the International Court of Justice in order to have the same political situation in Serbia as we do today, when we applied the request for an advisory opinion? I'm telling you, we wouldn't have. What helped us when it comes to advisory opinion? A few things. In addition to having suffered a severe blow - the opinion of the International Court of Justice, the advisory opinion we requested has unequivocally stopped the wave of recognition and pressure, because we faced each other daily, and the minister and I as president, with pressure to acknowledge with everyone we talked to. There was always a small line of separation – recognition or non-recognition. Our personal contact and persuasion was crucial, but also the argument we could always use – wait for an advisory opinion, wait for the General Assembly's decision on advisory opinion. So not just one, but the other. The second thing, seeking an advisory opinion shifted the topic of policy-level opinion to equal rights, and it contributed to the stability of Serbian society. Today's debate in parliament do you think it would have been the same if we had stayed in that form of internal political confrontation around Kosovo as it was two years ago? Two years ago, to remind you, we had human victims because of the self-proclaiming independence of Kosovo, we had demonstrations in Serbia where people were losing their lives, we had foreign embassies burned and foreign ambassadors looking for salvation for their lives on the roofs of their foreign embassies. We also had the president of the Republic of Serbia to answer that question, which was in Romania, which he spoke to President Basescu as one of the few countries that refused to recognise Kosovo's independence despite pressure. I had a conversation with him because it is particularly important that at least five countries in the European Union, because of our country's European future, never recognise Kosovo's independence. There I defended Serbia's European future, not just the integrity of our country in Kosovo. Once again, don't make me, dear friends of the DSS, to tell you that I made a decision to go to Romania at that time, not to convince my conversation that I had the day before with your Prime Minister at the time would not be good for you. Believe me, it wouldn't be good for you. You want me to tell you? The then prime minister of the Republic of Serbia said that Serbian citizens must not get the impression that we are more against their way of protest, to those who have recognised Kosovo's independence. I told the Serbian prime minister that he was taking responsibility for all the consequences of the potential demonstrations that could follow at that time. I said it was a very dangerous policy. I remind you, at that moment someone lost their lives in the state of Serbia. That's the guy who got into the American embassy and lost his life. He didn't know what was waiting for him there. He didn't know it was foreign territory, he thought it was Serbia, because he was taught that Serbia is in every foreign embassy. It was an irresponsible policy. That's where I'm gonna stop. That's enough right now, because the most important thing is to focus on the topic, because two years back doesn't matter for this time we're in today. We're in a very difficult situation today. I am ready to talk about it at one of the next sessions of parliament, if you like as MPs, with great pleasure. It's a tough situation in the next one. We, I tell you my position, without active policy and integration into the European Union cannot defend the integrity of Kosovo and Metohija, as we cannot do without good relations with the United States to defend the integrity of Kosovo and the Metohija. Likewise, the integrity in Kosovo and Metohija and our interests cannot be defended without good relations with Russia and with China. I have to say it. We are facing a very complex situation where we need to find exactly the direction or path that only provides the quality of our foreign policy relations, which I have now defined and which ensures that Serbia is running an active policy in Kosovo and Metohija. And that's why we have to proceed to the General Assembly. It is our obligation, and all that we will not, we must, since it is Secretary-General Ban Ki Moon's opinion, and yet Serbia has submitted a resolution. That's why we have to propose a resolution. Of course, to discuss with all the partners in the world how this resolution should look, because we need to secure votes. Thank God, we don't live alone in the world. In order to get a resolution in the General Assembly, we must have support, above all, great powers, because they have the greatest influence on the United Nations. Can we do that? Today, no one can put their hand in the fire that it will be so safe, but we must try, because if we gave up on it, we would give up Serbia's defence of Kosovo's integrity. The Democratic Party of Serbia's proposal to now give up on it and make a new lawsuit, it is legitimate and has arguments for it. I believe, and I take responsibility for that position, so that such an approach would not give effect. You wouldn't change anything in the field, we'd confrontation, and we'd re-emerge with the great forces, and we'd come back into a situation where we'd lose everything we're trying to preserve and reduce our chances instead of increasing them. Someone here was discussing in spirit, I'm not talking about the heads of Parliament clubs, I'm talking about some MPs who are also right, of course, in their own opinion, they spoke in spirit -- this government has suffered an absolute defeat, this is a failure of one policy, it's a disaster, you've lost everything. It reminded me very much of the aphorism of Mr. Alexander Baljk who said - before World War II we had nothing, then the Germans came and took everything from us. That's the logic. Guys, we were in a dramaticly difficult situation a year ago when it comes to Kosovo, two, five, ten years ago. Now don't let us go back into the history of these events. This government does indeed do under the given circumstances everything possible and will do everything possible. As President of the Republic, I will do absolutely everything possible and say to you as MPs, respecting this home, and to the citizens of Serbia, not only because it is my constitutional obligation, but also because of my conviction. Now to answer those who believe Serbia can easily enter the European Union without Kosovo, and that is not true. Serbia cannot enter the European Union easily giving up Kosovo. It's a completely wrong policy. Serbia does not need the European Union more than the European Union needs Serbia. Today there is also fatigue in the enlargement of the European Union, but Serbia is able to solve Kosovo's problem in a correct, compromise way, such Serbia becomes one of the key regional factors of stability and the European Union cannot without such a Serbia. I'll finish my presentation the next way. The International Court of Justice's opinion, ladies and gentlemen, is producing new practical political consequences and they are having concerns. We will now put aside our interests and the point where this opinion affects Serbia, the Serb people and the Serbian citizens. This opinion produces a very dangerous consensus in international politics, in international law. So that opinion by the International Court of Justice is unequivocally saying that any act on the secession of any informal group is not opposed to international law. Such an attitude produces great concern in international political and analytical circles at the moment. In the Western Balkans, where we live, such an act can produce new instability in years. We have spent many years of our efforts to establish political stability, so that this opinion of the International Court of Justice - I do not interfere with the jurisdiction and position of the court, I am talking about practical political consequences – because every opinion of the International Court of Justice has political consequences. One such attitude can produce a completely new political development in the Western Balkans, the Caucasus, Latin America, Africa, somewhere in the EU and in many other parts of the world. Such a coincidence could produce very difficult economic consequences and new economic crises. That is why this International Court of Justice stance is causing serious international reactions at the moment. Those who thought it was a simple solution, which is that the unilateral declaration of independence was declared to be a consensual international law and that the problem was being solved, did not consider the consequences that followed immediately afterwards. It may solve a one-sided and dangerous problem for the Serbian people and Serbia, which is the problem of Kosovo and Metohija, but produces problems on all sides of the world. This is a wandering stone that can affect the interests of many countries in the world, and therefore Serbia at this time and its performance at the UN General Assembly, and its performance in regional politics must show once again that it is a factor of stability and peace, to lead a sober and planned policy, not a policy that re-emerges to war-bending, which is dangerous from the point of view of raising emotions in people, which causes fears in people. Serbia must show that it is running a policy that is planned and which is part of the international community, part of European integration. Only such a Serbia that solves problems is important for the EU and the international community. Every other Serbia is Serbia experiencing isolation and lagging behind. Serbia, which is experiencing isolation and lagging out, is not a democratic country and is not a country that can accompany technological development. That is why I want to say to all the critics and the policies behind which I have stepped, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that I believe that at this point we do not have a better policy. There's an alternative, but they're not better. The proposals put forward here I don't think they're at the level at which politics are being led today by the state of Serbia, despite what we're experiencing at this very moment of difficult blows, because it continues with the alternative. The proposal proposed by the DSS is unequivocally and definitely moving us away from EU membership. The DSS is asking 22 countries that have recognised Kosovo's independence that practically in their political gesture towards Serbia, they say they do not recognise it. That's impossible. Since you are setting impossible conditions, DSS gentlemen, it means you want Serbia in a practical sense not to go towards EU membership, although it may not be your personal desire. As for the SRS, it openly suggests that all talks with the EU be cut off and that Serbia become a member of the Association of Independent States, and to approach other non-NATO military alliances, but are defence alliances, thousands of kilometers away from Serbia. There's only one small problem, we geographically have nothing to do with it. The SNS policy, with great respect that the SNS joined the vote on the amended act, was two years ago that countries that recognised Kosovo's independence were sued by their domestic courts. I remember that Tomislav Nikolic put out, it's a different attitude than the DSS. They're all different attitudes. All four attitudes are completely different. To avoid any dilemma, the only view that is united is now in the ruling coalition, which has reached what consensus. The only realistic policy, in my opinion, is the one that's being run now. I respect that there should be no dilemma, the legitimacy of each of your policies, and some of you I deeply disagree with. Serbia, which would once again lead a policy of destroying peace, endangering security, is Serbia that would be doomed. Such a policy Serbia must never lead again. Serbia must lead a policy of a completely different character. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to thank you for your attention. I want to thank you for everything that has been the subject of your discussion today. Believe me, I've been sitting here, I don't know what hours, 11-12 hours. He told our MP from Sapac that it was just beginning, Mr Nikolic, and to answer him, not to be a dilemma, EULEX came from the Security Council's decision, by adopting a presidential statement to Kosovo and Metohija. Slobodan Samardzic shows that he is not; he is, I can read to you the Security Council's decision, and in that sense the condition set by the Serbian Parliament is fulfilled. I want to thank you all for the democratic discussion and, believe me, everything you said I recorded and will be taken into account at all times, except for the war, except for the interruption of co-operation with the EU, there is no talking about it, because Serbia has to become an EU member, because there is no better alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-26-0.u43700	I thank the President of the Republic of Serbia, Boris Tadic. Since no one wants to, in accordance with Article 144. Rules of Procedure, to take a word for it, I hereby conclude a unique search. I thank you for your participation in the work of the prime minister, the deputy, so all day long, please, please, please, the government has been with us all day, to criticise the MPs that there is no government on important topics is responsible for today's active participation, active participation and listening. So, with very active participation, we have had a very good debate today on a very important topic. I thank the Government, thank the President of the Republic once again. Since the National Assembly has completed its discussion on the only item on the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 85(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on 26 July 2010, starting at 23.35 p.m. as the day for voting on the single agenda of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. It doesn't matter if the government stays, but it doesn't have to attend the vote. [[After break – 23.35]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 86(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exist if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 159 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than 126 are present, so we have the conditions to decide. We move on to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION OF THE NATIONAL COMMUNITY ON THE OPINION OF THE INTERNATIONAL COURT OF JUSTICE ON THE LEGALITY OF THE UNIFORMAL DECLARITY OF THE TERRITORIAL INSTITUTIONS OF THE REGIONAL INSTITUTIONS AND THE TERRIONAL INSTITUTIONS OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERVES AND METOCH AND CONTINUTION OF THE ACTIVITIES AS THE National Assembly has carried out a single search, we move to a decision. Before we move to a decision on the draft decision, we need to make a preliminary decision on the amendments to the proposal for a decision. I remind you that amendments to the motion for a decision have been tabled by the MPs: Dragan Todorovic, Zoran Krasic and together Tomislav Nikolic, Jorvanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Knezmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović and Ljiljana Miladanovic, Borislav Pelevic, Mileta Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mico Rogović, Vučeta Toskovic and Dragan Čolić. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. On the 3rd preamble, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 220 MPs, 43 is in favour. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On the 5th preamble, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Of the 220 MPs, 46 voted in favour of the amendment. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. At the position of the 6th Preamble, the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the National Assembly. I'm putting it to a vote. Of the 220 MPs, 148 voted in favour of the amendment. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment by a majority of the votes of all MPs. The amendment was addressed by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the National Assembly. I ask that the parliament be declared. Of the 220 MPs, 147 voted in favour of the amendment. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment by a majority of the votes of all MPs. At point 1), the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the National Assembly. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Of the 220 MPs, 145 voted for the amendment. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment by a majority of the votes of all MPs. At point 2) the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 220 MPs for the amendment voted 28. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. At point 2) the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 220 MPs, 62 voted in favour of the amendment. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. At point 4) the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 220 MPs, 45 voted in favour of the amendment. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. At point 5), the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 220 MPs, 64 voted in favour of the amendment. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. At point 5, the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 220 MPs, 27 voted in favour of the amendment. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. At point 6) the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 220 MPs, 46 voted in favour of the amendment. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. At point 6) the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 220 MPs, 27 voted in favour of the amendment. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Since we have completed our decision on the amendments, we are moving to a decision on the motion for a decision, in general. I put to the vote the Proposal for a Decision of the National Assembly on the opinion of the International Court of Justice on the legality of the unilaterally declared independence of the provisional institutions of Kosovo and Metohija and the continuation of the activities of the Republic of Serbia in defending the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, in general. The title has been changed by amendment, but we need to finish the vote first in order to get the consolidated text. Of the 220 MPs, 192 are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on the sole item of the agenda, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I am concluding the session of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. We'll be working on it tomorrow at 11:00.
