ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36076	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find the session to be attended by 101 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 88 MPs are present at the Hall, or more than one third of the MPs, and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Sinisa Stamenkovic, Aleksandra Jankovic and Riza Halimi. According to Article 88(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly of Ms Slavica Djukić-Dejanović, in addition to the representative of the motionist Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Science and Technological Development, invited the sittings to attend: Prof. Dr. Snezana Pajović and Prof. Dr. Milos Nedeljković, State Secretary at the Ministry of Science and Technological Development, Nevenka Novaković, Radmila Skokić, Katarina Petrovic and Nada Mijatović, advisors at the Ministry of Science and Technological Development, Branka Totic, Head of the Institute for Intellectual Property and Mirela Boskovic, Assistant Director of the Institute for Intellectual Property. We move to items 9-12 and 16-17 of the agenda – THE PROPOSAL ON THE AMENDMENTS OF THE LAW ON SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH AND INVESTIGATION OF THE PATENTAL RIGHT AND CONCERNATION OF THE NECHANICAL PROGRAMME ON THE INTERNATIONAL CLASSIFICATION OF ROBS AND SERVICES FOR THE REGIST OF 15 June 1957. Year, audited in Stockholm 14. July 1967. Years and Women 13. May 1977. YEARS AND AMENDMENTS 28 September 1979. YEARS (joint principle and single search) Consensually decided by the National Assembly to carry out a joint principle and uniform search on the drafts of the laws under points 9, 10, 11, 12, 16 and 17 of the agenda, and before the opening of the search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 94 and Article 152 paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours, as well as that this time shall be allocated to MPs' groups of MPs by a proportion of the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, and that shall be the MP's Group for European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS MP's group - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the MP's group Advanced Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS-JS Group – 18 minutes; the MEP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Group of MPs New Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and 24 seconds and the PUPS Group of Members – six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak each and every one, up to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that MPs' groups have authorised them to be represented by the following MPs: Đuro Peric, PUPS MP group; Zoran Bortic, SPS-JS MP group; Zoran Shami, DSS-Vojislav Kostunica's MP group; Dragoljub Micunovic, ZES MP group; Marina Ragus, SRS MP group; Nebojsa Rangelovic, LDP's MP group and Zoran Masic, MP group Advanced Serbia. According to Article 142(2) and Article 152(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle and uniform search on: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Scientific Action, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Innovation Activity, Proposal for a Law on the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, Proposal for a Law on Geographical Origin Marks, Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty on Patent Law and the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Ninian Agreement on International Classification of Goods and Services for the Registration of Stamps. Does the representative of Proposer Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Science and Technological Development want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36077	Dear Madam Vice-President, honourable Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, you have a very important package of laws before you, which at this point in the economic crisis best shows Serbia's determination to classify itself in the order of highly developed countries. Former French Education Minister Claude Allegra wrote the following sentence on page 1 in his book "The Science Is the Challenge of the 21st Century" last year – it must be clear to all that the US domination in the 20th century is the result of the genius of a young Serbian immigrant, Nikola Tesla. On second thought, that's true. All the inventions, all the technology, and then the economic and military domination, they had the root of one man's genius. These laws today have one simple goal ahead of you. If it stands high, it means that a new Nikola Tesla, a new Milutin Milankovic, is possible, a new Mileva Maric-Einstein, who would be born in our country. These laws and other measures we take are to ensure that tomorrow their knowledge and their talent work for our country, for its economy and for its citizens. Dear People's MPs, this week the EU also adopted a strategy for the coming decade – Vision 2020. The key measure is to increase the allocation for science, which averages 1.9% of GDP to 3% of GDP in the EU. Some countries, like Sweden, are already above that level. One Japan is above that level, but Europe, although significant progress has been made over the past 10 years, has not yet reached that level. It recognises this as the central challenge of the coming decade, due to its competition with the United States, where President Obama announced and has already taken the first steps to double the amount of science and technology, with very large current levels, the legislative changes introduced in America, which will allow any stranger who finishes his PhD in natural and mathematical sciences to get one visa and work permit, for him and for his spouse, for seven years. Then, one China, which every year, thanks to its huge success over the past 30 years, increases 30% of the scientific separation and already places a large number of universities leading the world. Several already have budgets that amount to more than a billion euros annually. It is 10 times the total budget of the Republic of Serbia for science and technology for each of these universities. At the moment Russia is recovering and President Medvedev repeatedly reiterates that Russia's future and its maintenance at the level of superpower is independable from restoring its scientific potential, at the moment that the Middle East is recycling the petrodolars, this time not in expensive properties, but in opening new universities, research centres, Serbia, in order not to bring new young Nikola Tesla, the new Milena Maric, away again, today must take serious steps to find his right place in this global match. That's possible. It's a big challenge, but it's possible and we have to do it because we have no other choice. We need to build corridors, we need to build that material infrastructure. It's a prerequisite, but it certainly won't be enough economic and social base for prosperity in our country. Our country doesn't have rich natural resources. It does not have enough territory where it could live extensively on agriculture, which has not been transformed. In a word, our only chance of social well-being is a much greater investment in our only treasure, and these are our people. That is why, respected MPs, last week at the Government of the Republic of Serbia, after almost nine months of very open public debate, we adopted a strategy for the scientific and technological development of the Republic of Serbia for a period of five years. It is addressed to every member of this esteemed home and I hope you have had the opportunity to meet its key provisions. Two key principles of this strategy, which comes from a very harsh analysis of our reality, but also draws out the path of possible development, is focus and partnership. That's two key principles. Focus because in one such international game, Serbia cannot claim to be relevant in all scientific and technological domains. That is why a good part of our debate went towards identifying not only discipline, but much more precisely, the topic in which Serbia has already achieved significant successes. I would like to remind the honourable MPs that success is possible because, for example, a month ago, the relevant international organization "Tomson Reuters" announced that Serbia is a rising star in science. Yes, it's in a short period, it appreciates and measures only one aspect of our development. It's an increase in quotes and so on. Impact factor, i.e. the importance of those works published by our scientists, but this is the central way in which an internationally recognised, unbiased way appreciates the work of a particular scientific community. I congratulate our scientists on that, and we can say that, like sports, where some of our best athletes managed to get to the top of the world, and with far less resources, it was the same case with our scientists and our inventors. However, these first steps cannot in any way mask the fact that much greater effort is needed and therefore identifying several national priorities for the next five years, e.g. biomedicine, where we've been producing high-quality personnel for decades, which, unfortunately, because there hasn't been enough incentives, systematically go abroad and work in some of the most interceptive international institutions. During our state visit to Stockholm, we had a meeting with our scientific diaspora living in Sweden today. In Europe's three most famous biomedicine centres, the Carolina Institute, is now working and is very successful in producing the knowledge of 26 of our scientists. Each of them is a star on its own. Some of them were already subject to transfer towards even more ambitious environments. Mrs. Trifunović, an example works, which has done all of her scientific initial work at our Faculty of Biology, then at the Institute of Genetic Engineering, has been recognized as a great opportunity for European science and today is one college that has decided to commit itself, in Keln, to identify her and she has just moved to Germany. These are at this point in reality of our science and therefore biomedicine, which, above all, is our nation's health, must be a priority. We have great challenges in that domain, as a society whose age is very high. Cardiovascular disease, unfortunately, we are among the worst in Europe. Incidents and mortality are very high. We have malignant diseases, which are very serious. We don't have enough prevention. The scientific strategy is not here to replace health institutions and activities, but there is a great progress here, as in other countries in the world. Today, ladies and gentlemen, therapy that is individualized is well prepared. Based on the individual DNA analysis, today the production of individual drugs begins, in such a way as to treat what is being treated by the sea, without secondary effects on everything that is healthy tissue. The second priority is new materials and nanotechnology. Just 50 years ago, an American physicist, Richard Fayman, published what entered the annals of world science, and that's the idea that soon after an analysis of the vast universe, the world will move to a nano-level level that is below atomic level, because at that level there is an opportunity for both energy and for, as I just said, medicine, chemistry, materials. Tomorrow, and when I say tomorrow, in much of what it is today, a number of new materials treated at subatomically level have properties that allow for less pollution and much more efficient business. In a word, every industrial revolution, first of all, was a revolution in the domain of material and Serbia, and because in the 1960s, in the 1970s, it had recorded results in this domain and has capacities still, it can and must be present in this very important part of world science. Third priority, probably, I don't have to explain much. It's about protecting the environment and fighting climate change. There is a certain controversy here and there about the date, the volume, the speed of change, but it is unequivocal that this will be a huge challenge for us too, at 20-30 years, very directly for some of our country's current economic chances. I want to talk about agriculture, about seminary, about what's already a big problem in our country today, which is water management. Yes, protecting the environment and climate change, where our country has huge challenges, at the same time, through the development of so-called. Green technologies, and a great chance and related to the fourth priority – energy and energy efficiency. Unfortunately, for various reasons, today our country, according to certain synthetic criteria, has six times less energy efficiency than the most developed 15 European Union countries. This means we spend six times more energy equivalents to produce the same wealth and the same amount of GDP. It's not only harmful to the environment, it's harmful to our economy. Therefore, energy and energy efficiency are the fourth priority of our science for the next period. The fifth priority is agriculture and food. We already have certain economic results today, but no one should think that these positions are forever guaranteed. Huge international companies invest billions of dollars and euros annually in the development of new varieties and Serbia must, decidently, reinvest in those elements in the area of seminary that I have already mentioned, but also in the quality of the country, new varieties, the ability to properly improve, and genetically, our cattle fund. All in all, to come to what has been an innovation that has itself been the root of the success of the great agrogigans of the world in the last 20 years. Dear People's MPs, increasing the value of these large companies, almost without exception, stems in the last 20 years from scientific inventions, better ingredients in food, food that keeps and heals from omega elements, to functional elements. It's a great opportunity for our country, and you can't expect a huge breakthrough in agriculture unless it's based on knowledge. The sixth priority is information and communication technologies. They are present today in this room, but we can say that Serbia must think hard about where and how to find its place in what has already been a huge movement for decades. We have a significant chance in the domain of the so-called so-called. control systems, in what our energy and other facilities are. Serbian firms, Serbian knowledge provides software that is necessary for it to work. We have opportunities in the domain of telecommunications equipment. We cannot fight directly against the world's largest giants, but we can find common language with them and also build new companies on the basis of domestic capacities. Finally, this strategy proposes that the improvement of state decisions, as well as the affirmation of national identity, be the priority of our science. Why? Because we realize that those who think about major social phenomena are almost never consulted when public policies are being prepared. That's a big problem. We must work to ensure that decision-makers, including MPs and the Assembly, have a sufficient analytical and scientific basis for making fatal decisions for our nation and our citizens. At the same time, with the huge challenges facing our country – the attack on our sovereignty, the breakup of the SFRY, the affirmation of the national identity is the continued strengthening of Serbian language and Slavics everywhere in the world, which will have an even greater Serbian coloration, but Serbia is also the strength of its diversity, this is the possibility that we can affirm and what history has left for our soil, from the prehistoric, incredible Roman fortifications, the fact that one of the 16 Roman emperors was born on the soil of today's Serbia, Constantine the Great, and its Edict, which, 1700 years ago, led to tolerance everywhere in the then known world. Connecting, affirming and strengthening the quality of public decisions, without the instrumentalisation of social sciences, because this is not a goal, and affirmation of our national identity, these are the key objectives of our scientific strategy. Ladies and gentlemen, I have taken these few minutes to present to you the framework within which these laws have been developed. These laws have as a key goal to implement it without delay, because we don't have time to lose. I hope that in this esteemed home we will reach as broad a consensus as possible on these laws, which represent the future of our nation. Serbia has to improve its scientific system, it has to connect it much better with the economy, it has to stop the outflow of our most talented people, find common language with those technological giants that, instead of taking away the most quality people, one by one, without compensation, we find a way to work with them and that their investments and their markets work for the country of Serbia. For that reason, let me present in the shortest lines what is in these six laws. First, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Scientific Action. This is a parent law for those who practice science in our country. As you can see, we have one number of quite precise and operational changes that are presented here. The reason for that is the dialogue we had with scientists. In the past year and a half, I have personally had the privilege and opportunity to meet from 1,500 to 2,000 of them, as well as those businessmen who work with them, as well as international advisers, international firms and domestic companies that would like to or already work with them. The newspapers we're proposing here are next. First, to not only talk about this necessary relationship between science and economy, because last year, for example, barely ten patents of our entire scientific research community submitted, and every major international university each year endures about a thousand patents, it is our cruel reality, the National Council for Science Technology in this proposal opens itself to an economy that is, above all, domestic, but also to foreign investors with which we must find a common language, and in Serbia's interest. The second proposal is to improve the mobility of our researchers. Unfortunately, today mobility exists mainly in one direction – towards better quality international institutions. But today it is very difficult, because of the career and the way the evaluation is done, to get mobility within the science sector itself. That is why, at the same time as improving researchers' mobility, we are strengthening links between institutes and universities. The debate has been going on for a long time, but also today, unfortunately, in many cases, institutes and colleges do not feel like colleagues who have to work together, because we, with 8,565 scientists financed from the Serbian budget, are far below what is needed. The last thing our country needs is for this scientific community to be shared in any way. But not to lie to each other, that's an unorthodox case. We often have competition where there must be co-operation. We rarely have an attempt to preserve our own atom and our positions, at the expense of what needs to be provided, which is the quality of the lecture. The Bologna Reform shows that, unfortunately, in many cases, colleges do not have enough mentors for PhDs. The proposal here is not in any way to abolish the principle that must be preserved at all costs, which is that only universities have the right to issue diplomas. It's the only way we'll be able to qualify a number of them for so-called. Shanghai group of top 500 universities. On the other hand, we need to enable scientists working at institutes to be doctoral mentors to a much greater extent. It's good for doctors, and it's good for our science and for our society. I would also mention the need to form a much closer link between what was once a significant force of then-Yugoslavia, which is a link between defence and the civil sector. Unfortunately, long ago, the two sectors were separated, from choosing to call under military law, to the fact that military institutes did not co-operate enough with the civilian sector. We have much greater involvement and co-operation between the military and civil sectors here, and that's for every praise, because it's in the domain of the dedicated industry. The real breakthrough is in the domain of technology, but also in the domain of our civil sector, and as is the case in many other countries, we can benefit greatly from those scientific achievements found in the military sector. If we look at the institutes, we've preserved, although it was, uh, respected MPs, the subject of quite a fierce and very active discussion, so-called. the project principle for funding our scientists. We didn't suggest here so-called. institutional financing, or so-called Funding the cold drive, for the reasons that experience in that domain is almost undisturbed. Of course, in this law we've heard of our scientists who couldn't make it to a bank loan because their institution is funded on a project principle. This law makes it clear that their working status is stable and this is how we solve this problem that has been observed. On the other hand, the project principle is preserved to preserve the unity of our scientific system and because the whole world is going that way. Ladies and gentlemen, we are, however, introducing here the possibility of forming a so-called. National institutes, not according to the current gauge of existing institutes. Unfortunately, we don't have major institutes today. In our strategy you can see that we only have two institutes that have more than 120 scientists, which is the average size of an international team working on a major problem. It's a measure and it's about one criterion that we always have to think about. It is proposed that, on a voluntary basis, institutes that want to join together or those that can develop and cross 100 scientists in calling, if they are in line with the priorities that I have just explained, can also be named national institute. This will not give them institutional funding, but it is certain that those institutions that can become real equal partners with international sciences and technology companies will have priority in the allocation of infrastructure money for construction and equipment. In this way, we will allow them to make much easier choices for their place in European integration, where Serbia has seen successes, however, very uneven towards disciplines – good in information technologies and nanotechnology, much weaker in protecting the environment and medicine. But either way, these national institutes will allow several international institutes to appear on the map of Serbia, which can rightly compete and fight in the very fierce European international competition. Finally, since there was a story about it, this law, I want to apostrophe it will be one of the most visible shifts for our citizens. It is proposed to form a centre for the promotion of science. All those who were fortunate to visit countries in the region or Europe, and beyond, have found that there is always one institution in these countries where the founding fathers have the opportunity to learn about science and technology in one particular way, which is intellectually rigorous, but at the same time interactive and fun. We see every year the lines that form for the Science Festival, we see our little ones, who no one has to convince to go there. And, as in Paris, Budapest, Vienna, Ljubljana, there is a place where there is promotion and popularization of science, it is proposed that in Serbia one such institution, which is not a museum, the museum has its own function which is important, but is something that allows, above all, to make a wish in the eyes of young beings, that their teachers can identify a number of talents, which in the years that come to be our nursery, to be our new talents, our new Tesla. Dear People's MPs, this is one initiative that will allow every class of every primary school, but because it is the need of our country, and all MPs of the National Assembly, all ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as all directors of public, state and private enterprises, to come to a place where they will be able, in accordance with their age, to hear from our scientific community those lectures, seminars and international meetings where opinions will be exchanged much faster on what Serbia's opportunities and obligations are in the domain of the knowledge economy. Ladies and gentlemen, this law allows for very significant progress and I call on all MPs to support it. The second law is the law on innovation work. It has long been said in our country about the difficulties that exist in placing quality products. Our country's exports last year represented barely 23% of our country's GDP. If we enter the structure of that export, we see a key challenge for Serbia for the years to come. Quality salaries, consistent pensions, quality infrastructure – the only way to get to them is for Serbia to produce products and services that it places on the international market and that bring that income, taxes and contributions that give a better life. This is a major challenge for our country and we cannot count on a much better standard by getting a much higher quota for exporting certain unprocessed agricultural products, or a little more processed metals. This law is here to respond to that great challenge. First, it solves for the first time what I was talking about. Why can't our scientists handle almost any patents? First, because there was no system, second, because there was no incentive, third, because there was no money to turn such ideas into a product. These two laws, combined, provide answers to all three questions. First, after a big debate that we had not only with scientists but also with economy, a system is proposed which is next – if the innovation that becomes a patent is funded from state money, it belongs to the institution where it was produced, the institute, i.e.. College. This is important to us, because for Belgrade, Novosadski or some other university to enter the 500 best list, it will be one of the key criteria. I said before, some have thousands of years, and our whole science, when we look at what's proposed, it's ten. In this regard, the fact that the invention will belong to a legal institution does not mean that income will also belong to the institution. It is proposed here that something similar to what exists in the surrounding countries, in Europe, in Israel, at least 50% of the potential revenues from commercialising such innovation belong to inventors. It can be more, but it can't be less than 50%. Another challenge is how to give the incentive to submit these patents and copy them. We propose to form a technology transfer centre – one team of several people, which we will not easily find, because they must also have scientific knowledge, and technical knowledge, while at the same time knowing that they recognize what can be placed on the market. Certain initiatives exist, there is already one similar team at the University of Novi Sad, but for all of Serbia, it is proposed to form a team that will constantly search for what can be converted into a product. In the upcoming budgets, which we will propose, respected MPs, money will also be provided to pay for such patents, and for those most promising, and what is quite expensive today, and that is the European patent that protects the world everywhere. How do you finance these ideas? We already have a few examples in our cities, teams that have ideas, but who told us they always come across that financial wall. Today, there is no financial institution that can finance the so-called so-called financial institution. Capital risk, i.e. determine certain money for promising technology and thus go ahead of the market and win market positions. The establishment of an Innovation Action Fund is proposed, which will be Serbia's instrument for this key moment. Because, honourable MPs, talking, doing example, with 15 companies located in a technological incubator within the technical colleges, or the University of Belgrade, to my question – what do you intend to do, the answer was – if we fail to find sources of funding, we are leaving. And they have offers from Switzerland and England, from the United States, where such a system exists. Dear People's MPs, we propose to you, in response to this key question, that for those of our scientists, doctors, engineers, inventors who have and this entrepreneurial urge, there are not so many that we can lose one such team, provide a financial instrument, which will then qualify for a wider European initiative, which I presented to our European partners on behalf of our republic, on 9 December of last year, and which we are working on, which is the formation of a technology fund for the Western Balkans, where Serbia would not be the only fundier, but funds from the EU, another country, the European Investment Bank and many other financiers. That's what this law proposes crucially. It harmonizes us in the nomenclature with what exists in Europe and the world, but I would say that intellectual property and the transformation of ideas into products that will be placed in the world is the key idea of proposed amendments and additions to the law. The Sanus Act. Dear Madam Vice President, honourable Members of Parliament, this is the third time this law has been referred to the National Assembly for adoption, the previous two elections have taken place. Today this law is before you. It is a very important institution of our country and has its own challenges, it wants to contribute to the development of our science, technology and art, and this law allows it to get closer to what it is to function the same institutions in other countries. The first newspaper is the possibility that our academy, in a perspective, when appropriate legal provisions are adopted, will receive not only budgetary funding, but also the Legislatives and Foundations can finance such an institution. Another newspaper is the possibility that the Academy manages the institutes that are in its district in a much more efficient way. In no way will it lead to the break-up of our scientific community and we have reached an agreement with fellow academics. These and such institutions, these institutes will function in a different way, as well as other institutes, but in managing within the Academy's system things will be much clearer, as will be clearer when the presidency comes down to five people, it will be much more functional. It should also be underlined in this way to make it clear that only SANU can represent Serbia at international level, at the state level. I'm going to be very brief, not because it's less important, and I'm going to explain three laws regarding intellectual property. The first is the law on geographical indications. You probably know that a French firm in Switzerland registered a brand called "slaves". Until this law and the census of the Stabilisation Agreement with the EU, which, as you saw, came into force the other day, we had no legal opportunity to warn such attempts. On the other hand, our friends from Greece, who have struggled for more than 20 years to "feta" cheese as a geographically marked product, that no one outside Greece can protect one such mark, three years ago, if I am not mistaken, have been granted their rights in the European Court of Justice. In that sense, the law on geographical indications replaces the 2006 law, for the reason that the EU adopted a new directive in May 2006 to bring the law into line. With this law, we will have the opportunity to have a pyrotic helmet, to start with Pirot, a prosciutto from Užica, a royal kamak and many plums, a lot of things we place. It is estimated that around 50 such geographical indications can be placed by our country and that is a great economic opportunity. For example, one Italy places eight billion euros on the world market each year and serious research among consumers shows that we are ready to pay 20% more for a product that is protected by geographical origin. On the other hand, that's what a commitment is all about. Let's remember, two years ago, if I'm not mistaken, the big alarm came out because one mozzarella producer put the whole brand at risk, the whole brand. Therefore, in this law, together with our colleagues from the Ministry of Agriculture, a system of controls is established, so that producers who want to have protected geographical origin must fully and at any moment, for each product, respect quality standards. That's what makes this law possible. At the legal level, with our Stabilisation Agreement, it also allows us to protect our brands and place them. Recently, the Swiss Confederation has awarded us one donation and we will work on selecting two or three, for starters, such geographical indications and try to improve their placement. There are, ladies and gentlemen, two more laws confirming two international conventions, i.e. contracts and agreements. The first is the proposal for a bill confirming the patent law treaty. It is a global contract and Serbia will be the 23rd or 24th country to ratify, if you decide to do so, one such contract. He's, first of all, a procedural guy. It ensures that the patent we're looking for, i.e. that the forms required for patenting are uniform because it was seen at a major international game for technology that some countries asked foreign companies to do much more complicated procedures than their own. In this way, Serbia enters this area in an equal manner. No one will be able to ask our inventors more than what we're looking for, but neither will we be able to ask for more than what they're looking for. Finally, one law, which is the law on the validation of the Nvatan Agreement on International Classification of Goods and Services. This agreement dates back to 1966, our country, unfortunately, is sometimes late for decades in accession to certain important international conventions. In this way, in the sense of the nomenclature, we will align. I conclude, honourable Members of the people. Yesterday, the Republic of Serbia signed a 200m-euro financial agreement with the European Investment Bank, which will ensure that, through co-financing from our budget and from other partnerships, state, international, private, we get an investment of around 400-500m euros in our country's scientific and technological infrastructure. It's the biggest investment in knowledge ever made in the history of our nation. This year is crucial for our science, for three reasons. First, we have a strategy and, if this esteemed home decides, we will have laws that will allow for its smooth implementation. This year we also need to make a call for funding scientific projects for the next five years, because the current cycle expires at the end of this year. Therefore, the adoption of these laws at this point will allow us to start this key process in mid-May, which will then include all these changes and all that has been the subject of a broad debate, almost a year, with our scientific and economic community. The strategy, the laws, the call and now, if, hopefully, the National Assembly very quickly, after this signing, ratifys this agreement with the European Investment Bank, we will also have the opportunity to have many of our teams have the equipment they need, while those old facilities that are here and there in Belgrade and Novi Sad, Belgrade – the building of the Natural and Technical Faculty has been sinking for ten years, we are resuscitating, because it is a very high-quality facility, where there is a lot of good laboratory space. We've got a New Sad recession building that rots, in Nis, excellent ideas, for so many years unimplemented, in the domain of information technologies and campuses that we can build there. We have the opportunity to, with the construction of the Centre for the Promotion of Science, invest the necessary resources in what are the foundations that have been rotting for more than 11 years, near Valjev, for the station 'Petnica', where 25 thousand talented, motivated children have passed away and what is the crucible of our best scientific talents. Then, the possibility that in a circle of the Clinical Centre of Serbia, now that this Clinical Centre is being renovated, instead of becoming a very important part of the territory, possibly subject to some speculation, that six sectors be dedicated to the scientific potential in the domain of biomedicine, the possibility that at the University of Kragujevac, with Professor Stojkovic and many other scientists, we form a European centre for stem cell study, the possibility that these centres animated the capacities that exist in the pharmaceutical industry in Zrenjanin and in Leskovic. Also, that we can secure in the area of agriculture, in Novi Sad, that a national institute appears, but also what will be a competitor on the market and animation for what exists in Bačka Palanca, and in Guca, and in Chačka, and in Kragujevac, and in Užica. To ensure, in the domain of our social sciences, that those who have dedicated themselves to it do not work in impossible and inhumane conditions, some of them work in basements, that they have money to do field work. They are the ones who will ensure that, both in this respected home and in the government, we make much better state decisions, saying, that Serbia through these efforts, through these laws and at this point in the economic crisis, courageously and very clearly makes it clear that it no longer wants to export smart people, but rather wants to export smart products. Serbia will thus, instead of passively waiting for the giants of the world, and it is no longer just America and Europe, it is now close and distant West, ensuring that our most qualified people leave, often without a return card, show that they know what their priorities are, that they have money to implement them, that they have laws that will enable them, and that, above all, they have an overwhelming will to qualify in decades to come as highly developed countries. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on all parliamentary groups to propose their ideas, amendments in the upcoming work, to ensure that there is as wide a consensus as possible on this issue as possible, which is everything but day-to-day policy. Just because there was continuity during the previous three governments of the Republic of Serbia, today we have what Thompson Reuters recognized, which is Serbia's rise in science. I call upon you to give these foundations for the next five to ten years and, be assured, the results will not fail. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36078	Do the rapporteurs of the Committee on Science and Technological Development, MPs Srboljub Zivanovic, Committee Chairman, Pavel Marchok, Vice-President of the Committee and Zivojin Stankovic, a member of the Committee, want a word? Please log in to the electronic system if you want a word. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36079	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I must say that in the Committee on Science and Technological Development, science and the knowledge of people from the profession have gathered. They've shown us in the discussion that we should support a set of these laws. By passing a new law on scientific research, there was a need to pass a new law on the Academy of Sciences, i.e. to pass a set of laws that have entered into Serbia's Scientific and Technological Development Strategy. Mr. Minister, you're talking about young Tesla today, but you forgot to give an answer as to why young Tesla has been acting like this all these years. But I'll answer that question for you. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, after the five October pro-American coup in Serbia, "Puclears" marked the start of a chase for all institutions of the political system, public and social enterprises, colleges, scientific institutions and various cultural institutions. The rematch of newly-roasted revolutionaries, the hatred of ideological insinuators, the stinging of political opponents and the unscrupulous kidnapping of all things has become a general standard of behavior. The worst pogroms of the titoistic times were met and they covered themselves with a newly-insured Quasdemocratic cloak. In this country, ladies and gentlemen, there was built a legal facility called the Academy of Science and Arts, but you, after this five-octobaric revolution, knocked him down because you didn't need a sense, because you were going to deal with political inexperience, even though they were good and respected scientists. We have an example of the greatest genius of today, who was fired, and this is the regular professor of Law Faculty Dr Vojislav Seselj, just because he thought differently politically than the Dosmanli click then, and no one else handed him a solution to the dismissal but Gašo Knezevic, a man of dubious and professional and political conviction. When, ladies and gentlemen, today you look at and monitor the trial of The Hague, the entire planet and the political inextricators agree and support its struggle, which is not only about proving its innocence, but also about the innocence of the entire nation and the whole country. Many today learn at his trial, and this is seen in the tribunal of The Hague, by prosecutors, judges, and students of the entire world, who come to The Hague tribunal's classroom to learn this science. Ladies and gentlemen, the Academy of Science must remain an independent institution, without politicization, because in the previous period, I mean before 2000, every company, every company, had its own research centre and institute, which produced or produced certain programs or developed projects in a given programme that came from certain institutes. This contributed to quality and quantitative production, which enabled these companies to work. After the five October revolution, the crisis headquarters were the scientific institutes and personnel who had the worst references become experts at institutes or universities, because they are politically similar. You've destroyed the autonomy of the university, you've taken over the role of setting up personnel according to political resemblance, not according to expertise and quality. Another tragedy is the destruction of these institutions by switching to the Bologna system of education, which has devalued university calling and knowledge. I know well, ladies and gentlemen, because I am a man from the economy, that the great chemical giant Zorka Shabac, because of the inability to import raw materials for regular production, had to adapt to the creation of new alternative programs in the time of the major economic crisis. They maintained production, or they used technology systems and people's employment, which was done by the company's scientific institute. What about today? The production in Serbia, which you are measuring today, is lower than in 1989. You wanted foreign technology and equipment, and you didn't think about experts. They've had to fight for their survival so far, both their families and their families. Many of them left the country and went into the world. What, ladies and gentlemen, what's interesting is that Serbia, you could say, gave the West, America, 12 billion euros, because it cost Serbia so much the education of personnel scattered around the world and serving them. We today, ladies and gentlemen, have an example of one of our most active research centres, with a share in about 11 projects, and that is the Vinca, where it also wants to destroy this scientific institute and turn itself into a public utility. This is the problem I was talking about earlier. Now, when you propagate the return of personnel and the rise of scientific research, it's the same as raising an object from the ashes. But, well, you learned that, so I'll give you an example. The example is also after the five-octobar revolution, when you set fire to this building and many are drilling into their chests and glorifying their struggle for democracy, which they started as pyromaniacs. They were supposed to be arrested and paid the bill for this vandal act. Fans acting violently in the stadium, destroying, you're arresting, and you're rewarding these today. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to a low science separation, there is also a concern about the lack of a clear positive trend in separations. In all the high and medium-developed countries of the world, investment in science is constantly growing. We'll look at how it moved, and that's about 12.5 billion euros in 2009 when income from scientific institutes and institutions was achieved. This is half of what the institutes have achieved from those funds allocated from the ministry, i.e. the 2008 budget of the Republic of Serbia. If we look at the chart, we'll see how that trend grew, so you'll see that there was no increase until 2008. But, ladies and gentlemen, in the Republic of Serbia, there is no accurate assessment of the separation of the private sector into scientific and technological research, the comparison of state investments of 0.3 gross domestic products is unrealistic, but it should be compared with other countries. One of the major problems with science in the Republic of Serbia is that a small amount of funds, which is being invested, mainly from one source to scientific research, is being allocated to over 1,000 projects. From the financing of the Republic of Serbia's budget, 501 basic research projects were funded in 2009, but this is a minimum, because you finally realized that there is no life in this country without science. Also, 50.2% of the total budget of the Ministry of Science and Technological Development was allocated. In addition to this project, from these funds, the Ministry also financed 471 technological development projects and 129 innovation work projects, for which 39.2% of the Ministry of Science and Technology's funds were allocated. Unlike the Republic of Serbia, in most of Europe's most developed countries and in the world, this relationship is the opposite and the allocations for applied research are taking up most of the state budget. Also, almost 80% of the resources allocated to scientific projects are the salaries of researchers and a disproportionately small part of the funds goes to the cost of carrying out experiments and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, you probably came up with a discovery, too, when the economy and the economy of this country collapsed, that without investment in science, there was no recovery. I'll continue my presentation later.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36080	Do any of the other reporters want a word? (No) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on European Integration, MP Lasslo Varga, chairman of the Committee, want a word? (No) Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? (No) Whether the People's MPs who issued their opinion, the MPs Srboljub Zivanovic and Sreto Peric, want to hold a session of the Committee on Science and Technological Development, and to discuss the bill by point. 9, 10th and 16th agenda? National MP Sreto Peric has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36081	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, between the SRS Parliamentary Group and you from the Ministry of Science and Technological Development on this issue, there must be no difference. Do we need these legal proposals? Of course they are, although we're talking about some for the second time in three years. The question arises – what kind of approach did we have then, if after three years we have to change these legal proposals? Life goes on, laws need to be adapted to life, that's not controversial. What did you want to accomplish? You've seen, Mr. Minister, how much your colleagues from the political party you belong to have followed you; when you explained a bill, they thought it was the end and they wanted to support you with applause. This is about six legal proposals. My reason for estimating opinion is more of that nature than essential. That's what I'll talk about when there's a debate in principle. It's an emergency procedure. The law on the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts is going according to an emergency procedure, two days before the start of the session was put on the agenda, and that should not have been the case. There had to be more debate about it. You said on the Committee on Science and Technological Development that it was a short time of debate, but that you had a large number of conversations with people involved in science and scientific research and that it was somewhere between 1,500 and maybe 2,000 people. We never dispute a public debate within the circles dealing with certain problems, whether it's scientific and technological research or some other problem, but we demand that there be enough time for the MPs, so that they can prepare quality for these discussions. However, this much time was enough for us to notice certain things. I'm not going into the efforts of your colleagues sitting here, and they spoke very correctly on the Committee on Science and Technological Development about the professional aspects of these laws, but I will in principle show you concrete examples that you painted these laws with political colors. In any case, you shouldn't have done that, I'm going to do that in the first law, on research activity, show it, but the Science Promotion Center should remain as a special institution, as a newly established institution. I think today's debate on these laws can also be a good opportunity to promote science and technological development. Once, when a colleague of Snezana Plassic-Stojanovic spoke of another law, there would be reasons why they had either doubled the time, or if the debate on all these legal proposals had not been united. What was your motive for bringing these legal proposals together, or for a united debate? It is likely that the proposer of all six laws is the Ministry of Science and Technological Development, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, which, objectively, these laws have touching points, to present in a good way more than 8,300 people who are involved in science and scientific research, who are directly funded by the budget. When I say that these laws are colored in political colors, we can find them in your strategy, on page 36, where it's said, when we talk about social and humanistic sciences -- we know that about 1,900 people, of a total number of 8,300, 8,500, are involved in the research of social and humanistic sciences. Of the 2,047 scientific papers, only 30 are from the field of social and humanistic sciences. Look at what our relationship is here and then, in one sentence, you say – in a state of research and potential, researchers have little to do with state policy holders, including state officials. You're probably finding one truth, but it's something that can't be brought into direct contact with people who do scientific and research. In the end, we can agree that we have extremely talented individuals, extremely valuable people dealing with science and scientific research, but organized, right where intervention of the state and your ministry is needed, we have very poor results. There is one institute, this because you, Mr. Minister, mentioned, is the Institute of Potatoes in Guca. It's owned by a state with 100% capital. They haven't received their salary for 22 months, they've been cut off from electricity, they're trying with the Russian Federation or with one of those countries to close a strategic contract so they can... (President: five minutes. I'm done. Mr. Nedeljkovic, you come from these parts, and if the minister does not arrive, he is also in charge of European integration, then you pay attention to this institute. It is an institution with high quality experts, which has so far produced good results in practice. Thank you. I'm sorry about the time-out.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36082	Is the word of the People's Messenger, Srboljub Zivanovic, who has set out his opinion? (Yes) The word of the People's Messenger is Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36083	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I apologize, I forgot to welcome former Rector of the University, Mr. Josu Nedeljkovic, who is now the secretary of state. I must say that the current Rector of Dr Branko Kovacevic University was present on the Science Committee. The presence of these two men is saying how much it takes for universities to be involved in this scientific programme, in the science strategy, because when you mention these six-seven programmes that need to be the main thesis to be the achievement of this strategy, that includes the problems that are present in Serbia today. We can say that the reasons for the adoption of this law are regulation of scientific research activity that enables the implementation of strategic national priorities in the domain of science and technology. Law enforcement will enable the rationalisation of a network of research organisations, close cooperation between institutes and colleges, partnership with society, through popularisation of science, partnership with economy, partnership with diaspora through joint projects, partnership with international organisations through the development of programmes and partnership with other ministries in the realisation of capital projects of strategic importance. The objectives achieved by adopting this law are: 1) defining priority, basic development and applied scientific research programmes; 2) applying research results; 3) connecting with higher education institutions; 4) improving the efficiency of alllocation and use of all research and development resources; 5) more efficient distribution of resources for science; 6) improving and applying technology as a result of software development. It is also in the Law on Scientific Action, the old law applies the words "the center of exceptional values", and you replace them with the words "the center of excellence". I'm afraid, ladies and gentlemen, that again this is not some wretch of Sonja Licht and her NGOs, who wants to get out of the use of the Serbian language and introduce the newly created language of the Vatican. The Committee on Science and Technological Development discussed these laws, which unfortunately had to be found in an emergency procedure. I say, unfortunately, after ten years, because you yourself have seen your big mistake, where branches are found today by institutes and where these young researchers are. You try a strategy, and you say, "We want to give them apartments, we want to help them, we want to keep them, we want to bring them back." How do you do that? In what way? First, the young expert thinks at least of his salary and most of all of the conditions in which he will implement his scientific strategy. But for these ten years, as I said in my previous presentation, you destroyed it. You have destroyed large companies, which today, so to speak, do not exist, which were the first foundation of where this research work started. Then he went to the science institutes. We've absorbed young experts from these institutes. You can't put a man in there right now, like a young genius, into a science institute. He must go through that practical part, too, to see where that mind and discovery will eventually develop. Tell me, you'll probably give me an answer, what companies in Serbia are there today, because everything is destroyed? Criminal privatisation has contributed to this destruction. What if you go back to the institutes that produce seed goods, once the best quality, it's the Science Institute in Novi Sad and the Institute of Science in Belgrade? Today, a modified U.S. seed appears again, seeking to penetrate the Serbian market, so that we can destroy those of our highest quality and strongest institutes we have been proud of, because Serbia could not produce equipment, technology, but it produced experts. (President: five minutes. I'm done. Thank you. In my presentation, I'll say something about it later.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36084	Does the word wish for a People's MP, Milorad Buha, who gave an opinion at the Scientific and Technological Development Committee session? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36085	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished citizens of Serbia, what is the place and position of science in modern Serbian society should give us an example of these two sentences that I will read from the Science and Technological Development Strategy for the period from 2010 to 2015. The strategy says this - we do not play a significant role in any scientific discipline in Europe and the world. The indisputable individual talents can't replace the fact that none of our universities are on the Shanghai list of the 500 best in the world. It is these two sentences that speak of the place, the position of science in modern Serbian society. The ministry made an effort and developed a strategy. I ask the minister and the professional associates who worked – on what basis is this national strategy implemented? One society that says to itself that today, that it is civilized, must have a national state development strategy. All other national strategies shall be implemented from that national strategy. With this strategy, you only ripped out one segment, which covers science. Based on your knowledge, you have built what is drawn into the foundations of this national strategy. You created something that you cannot and cannot create, because it must be one whole derived from a national strategy. Only in two sentences will I return you to the National Strategy for Economic Development from 2006 to 2012, which had to be incorporated into this national strategy, where the question of science and technological development and certain resources that will be incorporated into this national strategy has been defined. No one mentions that national strategy from 2006 anymore. The obligation of state authorities to submit a report on the implementation of the National Strategy for Economic Development. However, not once did the government or this congregation consider it. Such fate will also be these national strategies. When we go so radically, that's how we go about making certain legal projects that you say are fundamental, that they're functional, etc. You have explained a total of six goals, which are set so broadly, which are comprehensive. However, in the amendments and additions to the Law on Scientific Research, none of this can be found. I will try to read – the objectives achieved by the adoption of this law are to define priority, basic, developmental and applied research programmes. No member speaks of it, this which you have stated for the first purpose of this law. It's the content of the National Strategy, not the law. Second, applying research results. Where can we find it in the law? Further, closer to connecting with highly educated institutions. Let's say we can find this in a certain way, but that's a broad term, too. Afterwards, improving the efficiency of allotment and use of all scientific research resources, etc. It all differs with each other. What's the big deal? It's important that we isolate very little in science. For this year, 2010, it's about nine billion. We're on a scale of separation in the scientific research work of the last, after Albania, but I'm afraid that by next year Albania will be above us, we'll be the last. Some 0.275% of GDP is set aside in scientific research. Too little and nothing. When we see that in the structure of these funds, of those nine billion, more than eight billion will go for wages, material and immaterial expenses, for working in research institutions, all about a billion or something more goes for scientific research. It's a negligible sum. Where's the economy? Where's the participation of the economy? Where are the contributions of the economy to scientific research? Science is separate from the state. There's no interaction between state and science. On the other hand, the same relationship and correlation that exists between state and science should be with economy. Unfortunately, that's not there. (President: three minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36086	Does the People's Messenger Sladjan Mijaljevic, who expressed his opinion at the Committee's session, want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36087	So I singled out an opinion on the law on the protection of geographical origin on the Committee on European Integration for some general reasons and the environment in which we live. The previous law was passed in 2006 and, behold, after only four years we have passed a new law, and it is about areas that are not so easily variable. This is about us working a little bit to protect ourselves, but it seems, to protect someone else. Our sad practice talks about it enough. Earlier, the Deputy Prime Minister says that in 2006, the EU adopted a new regulation that will allow us to define and regulate certain areas even clearer and faster. I really can't believe it. I know and I see what your matrix is and what movie you're spinning in your head, but I can't believe we're all being encouraged alive, it starts and ends with the EU. I guess there are some universal laws that rule at the level of the world. It's impossible for someone in New Zealand to protect, I don't know, a pyrotic hat or a Serbian ajvar, just because 20 years ago there went to live 10,000 Serbs who know how to make it. And New Zealand can't challenge us or challenge us, just because we're not or they're not EU members. I guess there are some laws that exist at the level of the whole world. Let the EU on the side, they can no longer live on from you. Many of our products are already protected from countries in the environment. It says we're seriously late, and I think that someone, especially because of the last 10 years that you're in power, must be having some conjunctivities. Especially a set of politicians who should have washed it all away, who apparently did not find her way to Europe. And now we're in a situation -- give us what you give, to save what can be saved. In such a rich country, rich in smart people and natural resources, we only adopt laws in 2010 on the protection of intellectual property and products, as well as authentic geographical regions. I think this law, like many others, will be overcome, because this law must be financed from the budget, and the budget is empty, because the economy is destroyed from where to charge it. This will be a list of good wishes. Our wealth is great and huge that there are so many products, as well as flora and fauna, which must be protected. I suggest we protect another new animal species, which is "the cheerful wolf," that is, the wolf that hunts parties for, who was promoted yesterday by Agriculture Minister Sasa Dragin here in the Assembly. In this way, you will have more additions to your law and efforts to protect certain authentic species and geographical regions in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36088	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. When you sign up, then I know. You've been read. So, opinions were issued by Momir Markovic, Radica Jocic and Sladjan Mijaljevic. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36089	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we attended the event of one of the greatest masters of words; 45 minutes, not full 45 minutes is, that I am not wrong of the soul, Mr Djelic spoke and said nothing. Namely, he said what we knew, and what we didn't know, which from this and all the other laws we couldn't read, what is the question of all the questions, we couldn't get it from Mr. Djelic. However, two applauses, one interrupted the moment they realized that he did not finish the story and the one at the end, showed that the exhibition was received among the DS MPs. I will not talk about institutes that camp and barely put an end to the end, and have exceptional human potential and opportunities for Serbia, through scientific achievements, not only scientific works, but through scientific achievements, to be placed in the right place that belongs to us in Europe and the world. Today, those institutes, literally, tavors. I'm just going to ask, before I move to the law for which I singled out my opinion, Minister Djelic – what does the US firm Monsanto, which deals with genetically modified organisms, seek in Serbia, what is it doing in the Zemun field, and who has made it possible for the company, which literally poisons its entire planet's products, to experiment in Serbia? This law, Mr. Djelic, is very late, late from 2001. However, in 2006, we passed a law that was not complete and that is why we must now correct it. In the meantime, a lot of things have changed exactly in the field this law is talking about. Meanwhile, many brands, traditionally Serbian brands, are registered by and countries in the environment, and richly from the EU. You said yourself, he registered the plum in a Swiss man from France, and there, except for the spray, as I recall, there are no other plums. Let me remind you that ajvar has registered Slovenia, in that environment since you took power until today. Let me remind you that many products have already been registered and that we will have to lead a fat fight in the EU to return to the brand eventually. It was not taken into account during the privatisation, that something produced in the factories that were privatised to the protection, so that the owners of these companies, by buying their name, buying a brand, were also given the opportunity to produce in any of their factories what was produced in that factory with protected geographical origin. It's a typical example of "Niksic" beer. So, the name of the city. The moment they started to strike, he told them, well, you strike, and I'll have "Niksicko Beer" to manufacture at breweries in Romania, because my brewers are there, and I bought a name. I'm afraid that many of our products and brands have gone that way; it hasn't happened yet that the owner shows up and says, that's mine, I bought it and I can produce it wherever I want. I'm afraid, Mr. Djelic, that even the pyrotic helmet will, therefore, be the catcher from where you come from, producing someone on the Julian Alps and branding it as a pyrotic helmet, because you haven't been able to protect it by now. Harmonisation with this law, i.e. with the EU, will take place during the implementation of the SAA. Let me read one sentence from the explanation. Mr. Chairman, since I'm quoting the law, I'm asking you not to take this time away from me. "This provision is in line with the member's team, which is prescribed that geographical indications for agricultural and food products originating in the geographical area of a non-EU country can be registered at EU level through the competent national authority, if they are registered in a country of origin." What about the products that are now registered... (President: I thank you, Mr. Markovic. I thank and apologize for these two seconds, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36090	You're forgiven. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? A PUPS authorised representative, Mr. Djuro Peric? No, I don't. A group of minorities? New Serbia? No, I don't. LDP? Yeah. Mr. Nebojsa Rangelovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36091	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, someone here said we have a set of very important laws ahead of us, and I'd say we have a set of most important laws ahead of us. It's no longer an absolute truth, it's an axiom that the 21st century is the age of knowledge. These laws should serve the fact that the 21st century is knowledge. I'm gonna make a little shift backwards. Mr. Minister mentioned the Bologna process and everything that needs to be a nucleus of everything that will find its starting point in what's called SANU. I'd like to look back on a few sentences and that part of Mr. Secretary's presentation. I am a professor of the University myself, and I know what advantages something called the Bologna Process has brought, but I would like to appeal that there should be no 'greater Catholic of the Pope' and what we call the Bologna Process should be applied in our case and in our country as the great and serious nations apply it. So what is, for example, very cosmetically in Germany, as German scientists say, for us should not be the Holy Scriptures, but only to extract from this process what is part of the basic, part of the basic interest of Serbian science and Serbian education. Mr. Minister also spoke about the possibilities opened by all these processes, which were also respected by predecessors and representatives, namely Mr. Ministers. I would ask myself and everyone the question – what are possibilities and what is the way of realization? We are very often witnessing that what is set up as a strategy and what we call opportunities is transformed into a race for the achievement of partial interests, which do not look like the abduction of budgetary resources, and on the other hand, the basic national interests in science are ignored. I would now stick to the text of the bill on the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts. All that we talked about has both political attributes and, of course, that as soon as the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts is mentioned, one of the first associations is its role in what is called the collapse of the Serbian society and the Serbian nation during the 1990s. The fact is that many of these political evaluations stand and that many members of the Serbian Academy of Science and Art have sought to be adversaries of everything that is a being of state and society, but without any responsibility, and that is what is bad and what pressures us all, which we have witnessed for the past 20 years. As our superior work at this time is to deal with this set of laws, I will stick to, or I will ask myself and the present representatives of the Government a few questions, all in order to improve the text of this law and to imitate the real intention. First of all, I'd like to stay on Article 1. This Article 1 is somehow contrary to something called legal normation rules. That looks like a preamble. The constitutions should have preambles, preambles should have constitutional laws or legal texts that regulate a wide section of something that belongs to the category of public law. The history of the Serbian Academy of Science and Art, we must admit, there is no complete continuity and is something very important, but my opinion is that, according to the rules of legal normation, this is not the place in this law. It doesn't essentially change anything or contribute to this law, but there's something that's fundamentally against us. I'd like to ask a question and make a request that what we tried to fix with the amendment be adopted. In fact, Article 9 sets out the conditions for selecting members of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, regular, correspondence and foreign members. The 1st position states that the conditions for a regular member are also sublime for a member of the Academy, but the 2nd point states that a member of the Academy may be elected as a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, with residence on its territory, which has been highlighted by significant scientific, or artistic results. The question arises – what about someone who is a prominent scientist, who is a citizen of the Republic of Serbia and who has no residence in the Republic of Serbia? Is Serbia allowed, is it responsible to give up services for such personnel? There have been cases like this in the past. I hope, it is useful, it is important for Serbia to have such examples in the future, but it is important that such people and such staffs are not prevented from being members of the Serbian Academy of Science and Art, one, I would say, not too responsible for regulating what is a member of the 9. For the rest of my time, that is, I would leave my MP group's time for a final word after discussing the laws in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36092	Thank you, Mr. Rangelovic. The mandated representative of the SPS-JS, Mr Bortic, has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36093	The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers and the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, the Honorable fellow Members of the People, live in the time of full globalisation and general integration of humanity in all areas of life and work. In this globalisation, every single individual, every social group and every society and state are exposed to cruel and unholy competition and the need for an uninterrupted survival on the global market for knowledge, labour and capital is constantly imposed. Those individuals and those societies who are not ready and trained to participate and compete in the brutal game are condemned to the slave future, to lag behind and disappear from the global social scene. Unfortunately, Serbia will also be condemned to such a future, unless it understands the process in which it is concerned and if the potentials, which are not small, above all, in natural and human resources, are not organised and included in the best way in world flows. The huge lagging behind, above all, in the domain of science and technology, puts Serbia in a very unequal and difficult position. Her only chance in the 21st century rests on her participation in the areas of superior knowledge. It is not necessary to ignore the fact that on an individual plan in this area we have achieved more than the observed results and that our scientists, born and educated in our country, have in many areas reached the top of world universities, research centres and institutes. Unfortunately, these individual results of our people, who have verified their knowledge in this country at the world centres of science and technology, are merely confirming the rule of general lagging behind our society and Serbia as a state whose universities and institutes are currently on the full margin of top scientific research in the modern world. The very fact that the Shanghai list of the 500 best universities in the world does not contain any university from Serbia completely invalidates the individual results of our scientists that they have achieved in world science centres. World Technology Centres, alongside Western Europe, the United States, Japan and Canada, are also developing in Russia, India, China, Brazil, and even the Middle East. All of these countries have understood the importance of developing science and single out huge funds to invest in this area. In addition to developing their own potentials and investing in education and the formation of their own scientists, these countries have allocated huge resources and to the purchase of scientific potentials from underdeveloped countries and those countries that have not understood the importance of science for the future of their survival. In that sense, more than indicative is the fact that, for example, The Federal Republic of Germany plans to employ as many as 400,000 engineers and scientists over the next eight years, mostly from immigration. Other countries of the developed world have similar plans. All of this will encourage the immigration of scientific talents from all over the world, so that the target of traffickers will find the best young scientists and talents from our country. It is high time that the Republic of Serbia prevented or at least softened this dreary image of its own future and that the knowledge that young talents have acquired in this country is applied and developed in our economy, in order to make it competitive in the world market. This Serbia cannot resolve any administrative measures and bans on our young talents to go where they can develop their ideas and verify their knowledge. It can only regulate this in the right way if all the potentials of society are included in the development of scientific research activities and if it is defined that, in the development of science, it sets out much more significant budgetary resources than today. Unfortunately, budget allocations for science and technology are about 0.3% of domestic gross product and these funds are not enough for larger investments in scientific infrastructure. Such determination provides a rather dreary picture for the development of our science and for the future of Serbia and its prosperity. This is why the Scientific and Technological Development Strategy of the Republic of Serbia 2010/2015 is. The first more serious step to halt Serbia's scientific lagging and its full economic marginalisation on the global market. In order to realise this strategy, it is necessary to adopt several legal and other rules that will regulate society's relationship to the development of science and technology and allow for the development of scientific research in our country. At the same time, by passing these laws, Serbia will have to, at least in a normative sense, bring the conditions for carrying out scientific research activities to a modern European normative. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, in a set of these laws, have a particularly significant place to present a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Scientific Action. This law will allow the implementation of strategic national priorities in the domain of science and technology. Its application will streamline the network of scientific research organisations and ensure close co-operation between institutes and universities. This law will provide partnership with society, through the popularisation of science, its involvement in the economy, the realization of joint projects with diaspora, as well as partnership with international organisations, through joint programmes. In realising capital projects of strategic importance, the law creates conditions for all ministries and institutions of national importance to be gathered around these projects. The adoption of this law will ensure the definition of priority developmental and applied research programmes, the application of research results and closer integration with higher education institutions. This law will improve the efficiency of alllocation and use of all scientific research and development resources, more efficient distribution of resources for science, and will ensure the improvement and application of technologies resulting from their own development. In relation to the current law on scientific research, this bill, in a large number of provisions, regulates the positions of scientific research institutions and their interconnection, as well as the managing authorities, their choice and resolution and the relationship of the competent ministry towards the work of these institutions and their managing bodies. The law has introduced many amendments and additions that largely create a completely new legal environment for the work of scientific research in our country. The area of innovation activity is systemically regulated in Serbia for the first time by the law that was passed in 2005, which defines natural innovation activity, projects through which these activities are implemented and set up an organisational structure of innovation operators. In the past few years, the application of this law has made it possible to see through experience in practice all its indeterminateness and lack of mechanisms, as well as those solutions that are rigid or reregulated this, by nature, variable matter. Such rigid norms and legal solutions have made it difficult or impossible for budget co-financing to be directly encouraged by the creation of market-confirmed innovative goods and services and indirectly affecting the improvement of the general climate in which innovative resources, above all, make up a reliable generator for the development of domestic economic potentials. The shortcomings that occurred during the three-year application of the law imposed the need to remove, with changes and additions, in a way that would allow the establishment of priorities identified by a five-year innovation policy and their alignment with the implementation of the Innovation Action Programme. Amendments and additions to the Act on Innovation Activity shall be made to the terms of specific categories of the innovation system which will contribute to the reliable application of the legal provisions. More efficient application of incentive mechanisms to existing resources is also provided, with an explanation of the structure and specification of the network of innovation activities operators. The amendments are complemented by provisions governing the Innovation Labour Fund. This enables organisational and functional conditions to encourage innovative activities in relation to newly established economic operators, but in priority areas of science and technology. General provisions on the functioning of the Fund have been removed, i.e. those which mean overlaps with the tasks of the Ministry of Innovation Action. New legal solutions have removed provisions that do not require generality, generality in the legal act, as well as provisions that are non-functional, general or outside the logical context of the legal system. It is expected that the adoption of amendments and additions to this law will allow the establishment of a functional link that creates the priorities of the government's innovation policy with the dynamics of the implementation of the annual programmes of innovation work and the period of implementation of innovation and development projects. The implementation of amended and updated provisions will also allow for a partnership with the economy and with international organisations, as well as full coordination between the Ministry, through the definition of specific programmes of innovation activity. Starting with the fact that SANU is the highest scientific and artistic institution in the Republic of Serbia, which exists for about 170 years, which has an extremely successful tradition, the need to, in accordance with the scientific research goals set by our country at the moment, adopt a new law on the activity of this extremely important institution, in line with new social conditions. Preserving the decades-old reputation and way of working of this institution, the SANO bill only makes minor changes, for better internal organisation and for increasing the efficiency of SANU. The first objective of the law is to further regulate the assets that the Academy has or manages. There, in addition to the immovableity of the Academy and already at their disposal, and those in the state property it uses, but also in charge, funds, foundations and gifts. In this way, revenue sources for the independent work of the Academy will significantly increase, thus reducing budget expenditure. The new legal solutions abolish the possibility of electing new members outside the working system, who were chosen by prominent scientists and artists in the former Yugoslav republics after the collapse of the former SFRY. Now such a need no longer exists, since there is a possibility of foreign members. The paper is also a provision on the need to preserve the balance between individual fields of science and art, especially between the number of members of social and humanistic, on the one hand, and natural and technical sciences, on the other. The law also envisions an increase in the academic award, bringing it closer to the awards of the Academy in the environment, and in order to increase the efficiency of the Academy presidency, a reduction in the number of members of the presidency is foreseen. However, the largest newspaper introduced by this law is its provisions governing the status, management, composition and financing of the institute, whose founder is SANU. This is one of the reasons why this law should have been passed, because otherwise, institutes whose founder of the Academy would have remained in the legal void and their status and activity would not have been regulated at all by law. The SAN Law provides for the work of these institutes to be analogous to the way in which this matter is regulated in the law on scientific research, with the only difference, which ensures the proper participation of the Academy in the management of institutes, which it is the founder and which is a small number of members of administrative and professional bodies in these institutes. The draft code on geographical indications sets out its alignment with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Law on Ministrys, as the current law on geographical indications, the law of the former state union of Serbia-Montenegro. In addition, the new law provides for harmonisation of this area with EU guidelines and regulations relating to geographical indications. Given that the harmonisation of the process that will take place during the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, full compliance with EU rules will be reached within the time limit defined by the Agreement, i.e. five years from the date of its entry into force. The proposal for this law fulfils the obligations under the signed Stabilisation and Association Agreement. In addition, it is in line with the solutions laid down by the World Trade Organisation for its members – the IPR Agreement, which entered into force on 1 January 1995, as well as the Madrid Agreement on the control of false or fraud designations of origin on products and the Lisbon Agreement on the protection of names, origin and their international registration. The proposed solutions, in addition to the international conventions mentioned, also used solutions under the laws of Switzerland, France, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Slovenia and Croatia. In this respect, the proposed law provides for a procedure for obtaining international protection of domestic geographical indications, as well as a quality control system and specific product characteristics. The law pays particular attention to the definition of specific terms, names of origin and geographical indications, as well as their determination in relation to traditional and historical titles. The protection of homonomous geographical names is also regulated, thus regulating the protection of labels marking products from a place whose name is identical. The patent law treaty was adopted at a diplomatic conference in Geneva on June 1st 2000, signed by 60 countries of the World Intellectual Property Organisation, and ratified by 22 states. The contract was also signed by the European Patent Organisation and its provisions are included in the European Patent Convention. The contract entered into force on 28 April 2005. By joining this Convention, our country fulfils the obligation it has made to sign and ratify the CEFTA Agreement, as well as the EU Association Agreement. By joining this Convention, it will allow the right to vote and the active participation of our country's representatives in the meetings of the Assembly, as well as at the meetings of experts and working groups set up by it. The patent law agreement standardises the conditions in Member States to obtain the date of application and reduce the risk that the applicant loses patent law. Also, formal conditions for national and international patent applications have been standardised. The draft law confirming the patent law treaty provides for its adoption under the text of the patent law Treaty in the original, English, and translation in Serbian. The adoption of this contract opens up significant assumptions for equating the conditions under which patent rights owners from our country will appear on the international market. The proposal for a law attesting the Nvatan Agreement on International Classification of Goods and Services to register stamps from 15 July 1957, revised in Stockholm in 1967 and Geneva on 13 May 1997 and amended on 28 September 1979, the Republic of Serbia confirms the Geneva Act, an act of the Nvatan Agreement. It shall gain the right to vote and the active participation of its representatives in the meetings of the Assembly of the Special Union, at the meetings of the Committee of Experts and at the meetings of working groups, where decisions are taken on changes in the international classification of goods and services. By accepting the Ninska Agreement, Serbia is entitled to participate in the resolution and other issues of importance for the functioning of a special union. The obligation to confirm the Geneva Act and the Nvatan Agreement is also foreseen by the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the EU and the Republic of Serbia, which our country has accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, by adopting a set of these laws, the Republic of Serbia largely creates a favourable normative environment for the development of the science and scientific potential of our society, for the construction of scientific institutions and for the protection and valorisation of scientific achievements according to the highest normative standards of the modern world. In that sense, the proposed set of laws is more than necessary, because our country introduces the international order of scientific and technological development and opens the perspective of improving our scientific knowledge and using them to strengthen the competitiveness of our economy. That is why these laws call for a comprehensive debate in the National Assembly, in order for the proposed legal texts to be supported as much as possible by all MPs. The SPS-JS parliamentary group, in voting day, will support the bill's proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36094	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the DSS Parliamentary Group, Mr. Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36095	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, first of all, I have to say that there are six laws before us that all belong, no doubt, under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Science, and on the other hand, under the jurisdiction of the Science Committee, that is not controversial, but that was no reason to discuss all six laws in a united debate, a team before four of these six laws are very serious laws that need to be discussed well. I'm not sure that my fellow MPs, and my smallness, we can speak properly of these laws in the intended time. After all, Mr Djelic, who did not speak for 45 minutes, but said 42.43 minutes, spent that time in the following way: the general story, which we can agree on and possibly discuss, is now neither the time nor the place – 16 minutes; the law on scientific research work – 10 minutes; the law on innovation – 6 minutes; the law on the Academy of Science – two minutes, probably in line with the importance of the Academy of Science; the law on geographical indications – two minutes; two ratifications – two minutes and at the end a conclusion of five minutes. I will choose a slightly different order from Mr. Djelic, and I will start with the undisputed laws, so as we progress further, we will eventually get to the one who is very controversial. It is quite clear that, if it is about ratifications, one is the Ninian Agreement, another is ratification about patents; I don't think there's anything controversial about it. We are, unfortunately, in this area as well as in many other areas, in the far back, because while the world was engaged in such ratifications, we have lived in isolation in the last decade, so it is not disputed that these documents should be ratified in this Parliament. As far as the laws on geographical indications are concerned, let me immediately say that I think it's a correct law. However, we have submitted several amendments to which we will insist, but in any case, it is a law that, with the respect of the amendments of the Members, could be corrected as such and adopted. No doubt it's a law that needs to be passed as soon as possible. As for the law of innovation, I can say something similar about him. We have objections, we even have some serious objections, we've filed six amendments, it seems to me, don't take my word for it, plus a minus one, which we have a good intention of correcting the law. We also think that it belongs to a category of laws that should be corrected. The next law, I'm sorry, I say, is that I have to speak telegraph like this, but time is still limited, it is the law of the Academy of Science. So, the law on an institution of 169 years old, about an institution that represents in every state, including ours, one of the basic pillars on which society rests. If we're one of the few countries that can be praised for having a 169-year-old Academy of Sciences, then that's more reason to pass one of these laws. Right away, it's generally good that the law in its basic concept gave certain freedom, quite a lot of freedom, to the Academy of Science to regulate many of its own affairs in its own statutes. In other words, the law did not impose too many solutions, but remained at the level of principle, leaving the Academy of Science to elaborate on its own precise solutions. That doesn't mean we don't have any objections. We've submitted seven amendments. However, two are of extreme technical nature, but we have submitted five very important amendments. We will discuss them in detail when we talk about the law in detail. As these amendments pass, that is how the government will treat them, the DSS will define when voting on the law. Now we come for the cream on the cake – the law on amending and supplementing the Law on Scientific Action, which, to be direct and precise, is no good. In fact, when you're making changes and supplementing an existing law, then, by the logic of things, you're trying to fix the existing law by passing a new law, or, eventually, installing some of the consequences that they're writing, something that's written in the Constitution, something that's written in other laws, so now it needs to be done somehow. These are mostly the motives for making corrections and supplementing the existing law, the law that we passed, I think, five years ago. More or less, the solutions that are proposed are worse than in the existing law. We wrote about 30 amendments, we could write at least 50, i.e. to every member of the law at least one, there was space, but we defined ourselves to submit 27 amendments, and in doing so, I must stress, I rarely write amendments where a member is said to be deleted, and here there are one 15 amendments where we ask that the attitude be deleted, simply because the solution in the existing law is better than in this. There will be opportunities, when we speak in detail, for details of these remarks, but I will highlight two things that are general remarks. First, what is the spirit of this law is that the Minister of Science is the director of all scientific institutions in this country. Practically, he, therefore, defines the Ministry of Science, or the Minister, on a proposal from the minister, as far as the scientific institutes in this country are concerned. I don't think that's good. I don't even have a current minister in mind, but tomorrow some others will come, but the Minister of Science, by the logic of things, doesn't even have to do science. The current minister deals, I've been active in science for over 30 years, but I wouldn't think of it, I might know how things are at the Institute of Mathematics, but I wouldn't know what the problems of some other institutes, which are completely different, even when it comes to related scientific areas. There are great differences between the Institute of Mathematics and the Institute of Physics. The Institute of Physics has a problem of equipment, and the Institute of Mathematics, Mahma, no problem of equipment etc. I've only set one example. I don't think that's good. It is not good for the Ministry of Science, or the Government, to so much command the scientific institutes. It's normal, for example, for the government to command public enterprises. These are public enterprises, the state is financing them in part, etc., and it is logical that the government has certain commands in a certain way. That's how he commands the post office, the railroad, etc. But the government can't command scientific institutions and, in general, organizations in the domain of science. It can't be as ambitious as this law has to be to regulate these things. Secondly, here Mr. Minister has told us that the great achievement of this law is the introduction of a Centre for the Promotion of Science. Here's another organization that the state is going to make, to fund it, etc., to promote science. I'm not saying that science should not be promoted, but that's not why we should be building a centre and making further commitments in the budget, which is what it is, not to speak now, Serbia's states. Although it is quite symptomatic to see the motive elsewhere, in Article 56. I'll read you article 56, it's not that long. He says, "On the day of the beginning of the work, the Centre for the Promotion of Science takes over the relevant items, archival construction and registrant material, as well as employees of the Ministry who work on promotion and popularization of science." So, because of the reduction of the state administration and the employees of the Ministry of Science, we're going to fire them, or we're going to get them out of there, and we're going to do a reduction, and then we're going to hire all of them and others at the Science Promotion Center. That's motive. The Ministry of Science gentlemen are looking for their prey, and that's why the Center needs to be built. I mentioned these two things, you could mention a lot of these things. For this reason, I strongly advise the legislator to withdraw this miracle from the law, to reconsider the existing law. I'm not saying that he can't be repaired in some parts, so if he thinks something should be brought in, but, in any case, this amendment and the addition of the law, which we've heard is epochal, that doesn't make it possible. In the end, allow me another comment, there were some words about him today in the presentation of Mr. Minister. It may not be directly related to these laws, but somewhere in some subtext it is. Yesterday we saw how we signed new loans, for God's sake, to invest in science. On the side of my general comment that we're the only country in the world that has a national celebration when they sign a new loan, like someone gave us money, not us taking money. There's some justice here, though. Science and education need to be done for our children, so let our children, grandchildren, great-grandsons and kukunas take that money back. There's a little cynicism in it. What I'm particularly concerned about is that that money doesn't go as much into science as I've heard in the media, and money mostly goes to various small and slightly larger investments. This is what is usually called in the jargon – the charms of small investments. So we're not going to develop science, but we're going to build, fix, not say we shouldn't, some buildings, so we're going to build some new buildings. It's not that much of a thing if scientific institutes live in decent buildings, the thing is that the state, and that's where I would agree with Mr. Minister, not a little bit, but to a much greater extent, it starts to deal with things that are of strategic interest to this country, and that science certainly is. Let me get this straight. I said two laws should be passed, those are these ratifications. The three laws are, to say the correcting nature, with the need to carefully look at the amendments, I can talk about the DSS amendments, and this one, let me say, the last or first law in the presentation of Mr. Minister is no good and should be withdrawn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36096	Thank you, Mr. Shami. I thank Mr. Mašić, and I give my word to Mr. Velimir Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36097	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have a set of laws that have been announced. Here, I was looking at this morning's programme, the head of state is talking and explaining that there are major investments in science, investments in science, the minister has been talking for days, or vice president of the government, and so on, and everyone expects something in the country to happen extensively, that Serbia will start to develop, that something positive will happen. However, the laws to be passed, like all previous laws to be passed, will be a great disappointment, because we have no place to apply those laws. We have facilities that will receive certain funds. This is where the expansion of some administration is announced, and that's where party people will be hired and so on. All these institutions that are going to receive funds, these are extremely party-controlled institutions, and the people at the head, with a completely negative selection. The people at the head of these facilities were set up as when there was a time of crisis headquarters. A similar time has come and black days for economy and free is to invest in science, in development, in knowledge, if it has nowhere to apply. Applying science into practice. Where can we get our scientists, into which businesses to bring them and where to apply their knowledge? Now everything and everything is being imported into Serbia. It's all from imports. Do you believe we can't build a drought, where we used to be leading in Europe? I know perfectly well that when I was a young engineer working on these projects, we had leading droughts in Europe, which went so far into export, especially on the Russian market, Polish etc. Today, we cannot create an ordinary plum dryer, today Serbia has not dried a ton of quality plums that meet EU criteria, vacuum droughts and more. Today we can't build a simple ramp for a spring crossing. Do you know how many annually the Serbian state gives to import these unfortunate ramps, which cost, I think, 200-250,000 euros apiece? We used to have institutes. Watch this vaccine. Do you know what Torlak used to be? It was art; they destroyed that company. What we used to be in pneumatics, for example. The first five-year-old, what were we used to do in various materials produced by Magnochrom, large exporters in paper production, in a number of others, in the food industry? What was "the Buddha," "Serbian"? It's all dead. It's all gone wrong. I was on the move against those crisis headquarters, when party listeners came to the head of the institute. I remember a gentleman who now runs the Vojvodina Capital Fund. I forgot his last name. When he came to Vinci, people said there's nothing from us. Really, it's all ruined. Your party's second, great scientist and expert, like, the Capital Fund of Vojvodina, he made a miracle. I remember, only in the area of the water industry, how many projects he announced. Nothing's been done. With one completely negative selection of personnel, we have a major outflow of personnel from Serbia, which is leaving. We will prepare, invest in some personnel, who will eventually, when they see they have nowhere to apply their knowledge, have nowhere to work, raise their hands and leave Serbia. Here's how much Serbia has invested in the centres, in training and training equipment of pilots. Now we've become a destroyer of pilots for Europe. The other day I'm listening to you from the ruling party, now I'm not going to list which of your officials, who boast that a domestic strong company from Montenegro is coming and is building a strong airline in Serbia. Please, what about JAT? Well, we'll see. Maybe we'll sell it to someone, marry them. Pilots leave, drive around the world, etc. Our experts are going into the world because they have nowhere to work. That's a big problem. We don't have any construction engineers anymore. Do you believe, as a resolute minister, we have sought supervision outside Serbia, because we have no supervisory authorities in Serbia, to appear, to be able to conduct surveillance, to have a license for certain facilities? What about architects? Could we not pass in corridors an optical cable, but must a Slovenian tycoon come to milk this Serbia, millions of euros, for hundreds of years? That's what Dulic did. Should the minister go to public enterprises and personally make a request for public enterprises to give it to him in two or three days? Didn't the Slovenian tycoon honor us to say, "I will submit the request to "The Ways of Serbia"? The request was not even submitted to Telekom, the Ministry of Telecommunications. Who's asking them? A few people here decide everything. Does the head of state have to come forward? He must now talk about this set of laws, investing in science, as he spoke of corridors and how many corridors were made in two years. For two years, you, Mr. Djelic, have been in power, and 12 kilometers of corridors have been made, equipped, and semi-profile. Imagine. When you compare the time of that government where we were together and the previous one -- 4,000 km times, and you did 12 km. Now the head of state was talking about corridors, talking about everything, talking about bridges, and when "Gazela" broke, he seemed to get messed up, shut up, didn't answer. So let's let some officials in Belgrade talk about it there. Is it possible to crack "Gazal" that we can't solve that issue for two years? We're intruding with some Roma settlement. And that, out of 33m euros for the "Gazale" recovery, how much our experts predicted and the banks approved, meanwhile, while we were chasing whether Roma in containers or in solid material saved that 100,000 or 200,000 euros, the price of the recovery increased to 34m euros. How many designers in Serbia are now able to design large bridges, a bridge in the Danube, a bridge near Vinca, a bridge near Beška? Can't work, can't prepare project documentation. There aren't two or three engineers left to do that. What about giants like Bridge building? It's completely broken in the system, destroyed. Why? Now what's worth schooling and talking about and starting from zero, and you need to bring down a platform to get those frames somewhere, so that those knowledge can be applied somewhere. I repeat, science is free, free of knowledge, if Serbia goes into imports and does not have its own production. We used to be in the textile industry leading. We had personnel, institutes, colleges. They opened up the Faculty of Textile in Leskovac. Now we don't have that branch of economy. It doesn't exist. Chinese goods, foreign imports. Can't we do powdered milk? Thousands of gallons of milk from the spill. Peasants throw, 15 dinars is a ransom price, and we import milk powder. Miskovic imported and completely blocked milk producers. Why can't we do this technology? We put out half the dairy in Serbia. Can't we do fruit and vegetable processing, syrup production, producing what we did and exporting 50-60 years ago? Therefore, all these investments are free, unless conditions are created for the employment of these people, for the application of these knowledge. A tycoon goes and buys the Institute of Roads and Projectors' House in Vojvodina, and now he's running surveillance, and we've been chasing him for the most time, extremely. He's got a lot going on in this country. He bought it in privatization. I was counting on you, Mr. Djelic, to do a miracle at the hotel, when you bought this hotel in Sokobanja. Is that right? But you didn't move. It doesn't bother you to go out in public and say you bought it, but that hotel's camp, shut up. Whose is it? He doesn't know who he is. Yes, it's yours, it's not yours. It is Baja's brother, your friend. It's not. You don't mind saying - I bought that hotel, I want to develop it. It will be a tourism centre in this part of Europe. What are you ashamed of? It's all a shameful thing. The other day, you opened a cardiovascular clinic. The boss stays anonymous, like, and the workers can get in front of the cameras. Please, why are you ashamed to say that, for example? You should go out and say – yes, I want to improve tourism in Serbia. I am the Deputy Prime Minister, I am the Minister of Science and Technology and Development, whatever you are, but I want to raise one branch of the economy to some appropriate, European level. It's no big deal. When a colleague of yours bought the Trepcha Atomic Bath, a man immediately hit commercials on RTS. He really wants to do something, develop tourism and create a capacity to develop tourism. Not like this friend of yours and a colleague who wanted to develop ski resorts, so he's looking for ski resorts, so we're sending people to training, equipment, etc., so half the ski resort stands in nettles today. However, snow as much as you want, but no ski park was sold during the year. This is why the equipment is installed, etc. Recently, when the Russians were, when we talked and were guests of their government, I remember perfectly, I say – we are interested in programs in the production of dried fruit and vegetables. We don't have a ton of plums, and the most native year has been in the last year. We don't have a ton of dry plums. Why? Why is the complete breakdown of the system in certain companies? Why is it allowed to destroy "Serbian", "Buda", why in Vladica's Han, an extremely good and quality factory? Can't we develop furniture technology? That's Simpo doing a great job. Thousands of new companies and thousands of old ones who have worked and dealt with it, and now we import and export the halves, because we don't have experts. Our experts have all risen and gone abroad. Now we want to invest from zero. We're starting from scratch, and you're going to head these institutions to bring in party listeners, people who are going to destroy it all again, like those who came to the head of the company destroyed everything. What does the EU require of us, so that we can adapt to the development of our technology, our professional personnel, to focus on it? Nothing. He's looking for raspberries, blackberries, mushrooms. Is that the fate of our children? And they want banking, telecommunications, electronics, that's what they picked up. They want the EPS and Telecom now and the fate of our children to be tractor drivers, raspberries, blackberries, mushrooms, etc. So, for free, this is one closed system. Science, the development of the Academy of Sciences, businesses and this knowledge that will be applied in practice, applied throughout Serbia, and this country will benefit significantly from that. Is it possible that buying wool in Serbia is worth nothing? The ransom of the skin - nothing. A peasant can't pay for a ticket to hand over his skin. Why? We don't have the technology, we don't have the processing, we don't have the machines to go down, we don't have anything. Do you know that manufacturers, shepherds, wool, give it away for free, just to take it away, to put it away? What's more, it's on fire. It used to be used and processed, etc. Let's not talk about the other branches. The other day, I was listening to the Germans say they're not throwing anything away. They're recycling everything. They're bringing everything back. There's no loss of energy anywhere. Everything goes back to energy or something. You're bringing your party listeners into very funny positions. For free colleges, for free institutions, for free scientists. I'm looking at a hydrocentral, maybe it's not a mini, it's a medium capacity. Imagine meeting a man holding a gas station. According to his expertise, he was an electrician at the Technos in Cacko, maintenance. Two years of electrical craft has ended. He says -- you know what, Veljo, I won the tender to do the hydrocentral. Guys, what are we talking about? Why? A man joined the G17. They said to him, "Can you make a good organization, collect some footage?" He says I can. Here, you'll be working on one hydrocentral system. Imagine, one man who was driving a FAP, fixing a car, an electrician is about to build a power plant! What are those scientists and experts gonna do, those great experts? Look at that project that was -- saving energy. Please, we are the biggest energy consumers per capita in Europe. It was a great project in Europe. They invested in money, invested in science, invested in development, and everything fell apart. It's all destroyed. Do you know how advanced Serbia was in construction? We were famous both in technology and in construction material. We're at the bottom now. Everyone now comes to Serbia to work, and we can't get any jobs in our internal tenders that we're calling. Not to mention the travel economy, the construction of power plants we've been working all over the world, where one energy project was a miracle, where a bridge was a miracle, one "rad", one "Comgrap", one "Planum". It's all destroyed now. We came here to drill a tunnel into the Ovcar Banja, but we had to look for the French. The French came to drill him. This one in the Guard, we've been drilling it for 25-26 years. We play, and if those people didn't die there, who knows how long we'd play. I guess somebody's finally gonna remember that we have to buy new equipment, new technology, get human resources, etc. That's why this is a good investment. I'm in favor of this law, but where do I go afterwards? Who do we train pilots, engineers, flight controllers for? For someone else, who'll get it for free, ready, trained, and with us, the authorities will do some that they set up politically, who have no idea about it. We can't organize one anti-urban protection. We can't organize what it's like in the 21st century. The city kills us every year. The peasant, the poor, just cramping, says, oh, I'm just looking into the sky. We shoot rockets in the clouds, like we did in 1946, 1945, what was left of it, and they shot people. That, Mr. Djelic, is something to invest first, to prepare a fit, to train, to buy equipment, to get new technologies, to innovation existing technologies, to enter certain production, if we think Serbia is moving forward. It's for nothing to do when, to prepare it for some abroad, to take out television and wave. Now we want to do the promotion of science and scientific achievements; so it's a great challenge for strangers to come and pick up everything that's right for us. They're just wrinkling, humming and saying, "Come to us for a little bit at the embassy, can you come to us at the institute, and we've got people coming to us?" There goes everyone who's worth it. According to a recent study of public opinion, young and educated people of 30 years, 33% want to leave Serbia. Why, Mr. Djelic? Because you have been sitting in the government for 10 years, Dinkic has been leading Serbia's macroeconomic policy and finances for 10 years and has completely broken the system, both of them, and no one has the strength to put it away. Now he's going to look for some regional centres; in order to survive on a political scene, he has to build these regional centres. He is now collecting Bosko Nicic in eastern Serbia, so Verka in Kragujevac, and recruiting Ugljanin down there, to make some centres to sneak back into the government with her world and to take a position again. But the People's Bank doesn't let it go, like a terrier; when it catches a terrier, it doesn't, until you break its teeth, you can't take it away. So, I think this is going to be a big mistake, and that's why, Mr. Djelic, it's a dark hat. I wish you many successes and for your efforts, extremely, to get credit lines and all that, but application, practice...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36098	Thank you, Mr. Ilic. The time for discussion of the law on scientific research has expired. The word is Mr. Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36099	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister and Associates at the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, first of all, I would like to address you, Mr. Djelic. I think that you have prepared this very well media debate today, by signing yesterday that contract to fund scientific research work in our country for the next few years, and it has been well received, or, I say, it will be well received by all MPs who are involved in scientific and research work, both educational and scientific research institutions. You've chosen a good place for this promotion and presentation, and I just don't think there was room for the president of the state, that he's talking about it too, because then I, and many other people in science, are treating it as a party promotion of something of general state interest, which is what the state is in charge of for the next 20 years, and all the citizens of this country have to pay back those 200. 000,000 euros. It would have been much better for the media if someone else had talked about the project, there may have been talk by some people, but it has not been shown in the media, if the prominent members of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts had spoken to each other, if they had supported it, that the prominent directors of scientific institutes also appeared at the Public Service or in that information, because such a project would then have much more weight and seriousness. I've got to make a joke, but I've got to get one truth out of the loop. By coming to the post of Minister of Science, many scientists have calculated that you, in relation to your abilities as finance minister, will be able to provide much bigger money, much more resources for research work. Unfortunately, until now, you have failed to do so and have even allowed last year, with budget rebalances, that a billion dinars that have been allocated to research work be taken and transferred to other positions, which you cannot contribute as a minister who has had good care for scientific research in the Republic, especially for me. To legitimize myself – I am also a member of the parent board of biotechnical sciences at the Ministry of Science, for 11 years I was the director of a scientific institute. What is unacceptable to me, and from the point of view of the former director, and from a member of the parent board, is that you have denied funding of research to the largest scientific institute in this country during the last year, precisely because of the lack of funds, you know what the Institute is working on, with an explanation that this institute is earning from other basics and that, in the overall financial framework, those 200 and some million dinars it is supposed to receive from scientific research will not be lacking. I think it was missing both this institute and every research institute. If there is no real incentive from the state, then it cannot be treated as good state policy and public concern. I hope that at the beginning of this year, no institute, on any basis, has been denied the funding of scientific research. I'd like to ask you to say it in public here, and I'm sure it'll be easy for me to check it out. I'm going to use a few more minutes to look back on the strategy that you've promoted here, what you said about these incentives. It's absolutely good, and we hope that really this money and money that this country, in addition to that 200 million, will still make a significant contribution to revitalising scientific research in our country. But, unfortunately, at the beginning of your argument, you started to tell the story that this money would be spent on the adaptations of some rooms, i.e. some of the objects, which began to fall asleep, on the construction of the New Sad dictatorship, some libraries, etc. If we spend this money on building and painting, then it's crazy what we take. I hope that it will not be your priority and your co-workers in spending, but that these funds will be used for one quality equipment, precisely according to these objectives you set in the Strategy, for biomedical research, for research into new materials, for environmental protection, for energy, for agriculture, etc., means, for equipment, first of all, for scientific research institutions, which need to improve, to reach some European level in these research. Next, what's been abandoned over the past 10 years, it's an investment in the rejuvenation. This country, first of all, the Ministry of Science and the Ministry of Education, must do everything to keep educated young people, talented, with high average grades, that more than a thousand young people do not go to continue their education and define their professional career abroad, but to create preconditions for them to stay here to work, to do scientific research. I hope that, in addition to the acquisition of equipment, quality research equipment for these key institutions that will deal with these targeted research that you have defined in the Strategy, the second level of incentives will be in the training of young people both in the country and out of the country. We are aware that in our country we do not have adequate preconditions for quality education in scientific discipline and youth and that we need to provide stimulating scholarships to the prestigious scientific institutions of young people to attend school there, perhaps, to do their doctoral dissertation or part of these doctoral dissertations. I hope that these funds will be used, through projects that will be financed in the next cycle, part of the funds, for all young people who have defined themselves as doctoral studies, at all universities, to have absolute passivity and inclusion in projects. So, in the next cycle, all those who ended up with an average score above eight and were defined, enrolled in doctoral studies, or employed at scientific institutes, can automatically have a pass-by and inclusion in projects, whether they are basic research, technological development or development projects, but, not to be – here, the couple is gone, all is divided and there are no young people involved. Then what will he do with what he'll do with his research? The last thing I think is that part of this part of the money needs to be spent, when it comes to providing other material preconditions for young researchers, is raising some apartments that at favourable prices will be able to buy and thus tie them up to stay here, or giving them favourable loans. So, to allow them to stay here, to improve research and to rejuvenate these 10,000 researchers on the list of researchers in our country. I sincerely hope that this, extremely well-intentioned of me, you will accept, precisely appreciating my age and experience, because I say, I have passed all the elections in scientific calling, unfortunately, i.e. The election of an extraordinary and regular professor at the university, so I'm one of those who has the most scientific and teaching calling, and I hope that in some way gives gravity to what I'm talking about. Now let me go back to this proposal for a law on scientific research and, first of all, to tell you about this national council, to amend the members of the National Council. I've got a few remarks. The first is that, as regards membership in national councils, in some ways the number of researchers, i.e. Advisers from the scientific institutes, the Ministry of Science, the Ministry of Homeland, for research institutions, people who are exclusively involved in scientific research. I don't think it should be favored by those who work in research institutions, but, in some places, such as this national council, there should be more research workers, i.e.. Scientific advisors, but, let's say, regular professors from the university, with all the respect of calling a regular professor. The initial draft composition of the National Council has changed significantly, by reducing the number of scientific workers from the Institute and the number, unfortunately, of those from the university. At the same time, you suggest increasing the number of businessmen, persons who are not with scientific research. I don't think that's a good idea either. If you think, and I suppose it was a motivation, that these five members of the National Council that are businessmen, who are delegated by the Chamber of Commerce or by the Council of Foreign Investors, will contribute to these research results, patents, new products, etc. More effective in applying and realising, I think you're wrong. First, because we have few of those achievements. You said yourself it was 10 or 15 a year. Furthermore, I do not see that their membership will further affirm and allow these new products and patents to be operationalized and put into operation. My MP group didn't give amendments, because all of this was an emergency procedure, and we had an obligation on other laws, but we would certainly give it here. If there are any proposals in terms of change, we'll be sure not to have five businessmen. It's a maximum of two or three, but to make it even more research workers, first of all, from the institute. The next thing I want to do is comment on the Center for the Promotion of Science, which you want to form as a new institution, a new body, within the Ministry. Basically, there may be excuses, but if we go towards some economic rationalization in our country, a reduction in the public sector or savings, then I don't think it's time to form something like that right now, or at least the way you treat it. In some earlier times there was a New Technology Fair, where scientific institutes appeared that had achieved results in terms of new products, patents, etc., and this was well visited by scientific researchers, citizens, as well as what you promoted last year. You already have some people at the Ministry who are involved in the promotion of science, but if you want to form a new body and affirm that body, then it's not acceptable for a director of such an institution to be someone who doesn't have a scientific title. Why is it that and how do you think such a person, and you have stated here that the Director of the Centre can be appointed a person who, in addition to the general conditions prescribed by law, meets the following conditions – completed graduate, academic studies and work experience of at least five years, who has five years of work experience and completed academic studies, can rightly promote science and the results of scientific research? I think that you should have put the criteria that the director must be a prominent person from the scientific research area and that he has achieved the results of scientific research, that it should also be with his personality, his "personality" to promote such a thing, the function and the body you form. I don't see the seriousness of your proposal through a solution like this. Furthermore, what I want to comment on is about the formation of the National Institute. In principle, I think it's good and that all serious states have national institutes that are the bearers of scientific research from certain areas. In earlier times, whether even in the bill or in the public debate phase, there were such proposals. At the time I supported and now I support such a proposal, but what I think is wrong is the criteria you set for meeting, which is what scientific researchers do. You've led two institutes to fill it. I don't think there's any. Neither does it have the Institute of Ratio and Vineyards, nor the Institute "Michajlo Pupin", which is the third or fourth. Would you please state what two institutes are today fulfilling the conditions that they may be a national institute? It means they have a hundred researchers in scientific or research titles. Some earlier proposal meant that such an institute has 60 researchers, which I think is acceptable, and yet it is a significantly higher criterion than prescribed for the scientific institute, of which, 30 with scientific calling, and 30 with research. I wish you'd put 80 on. But a hundred researchers absolutely disqualify almost all scientific research institutions and will force them into some unification. It makes sense to unite something that can be united, but if you unite the Institute of Ratio and Vourage and the Institute of Zemun Polje, to be national, you will first duplicate the mass of equipment that both have for research and a lot of other things. Personally, I don't think that's the right answer, but I'd rather be to reduce that censorship to, say, 60 or 80 researchers. I come from the branch I belong to, veterinary medicine, which has two scientific institutes, that both mergers will not meet that criteria to be national. I believe that this state should have one national veterinary institute, which will be the leading research institution in the field of veterinary medicine, but, then. Consider whether it is appropriate to reduce this censorship and to establish such institutions, but to be based on some real facts. What I still want to comment on is the changes in the work relating to the boards of directors. With this change you want to take full power over the appointment of both the president and the board members, i.e. you propose to reduce the number of board members and to be four members representing the social community, which will be appointed by the Government, and three who will be from the scientific institutes. You're taking the full right of you, who are now in power, to have a majority in every board of directors of the scientific institute that is state. I don't think that's good, or that it takes parity to be done with other institutions. When I was talking about the board of directors, I was thinking about colleges and appointing the dean. It's a different solution there, and it's practically state-of-the-art here. What I was about to say about national institutes is mentoring. It's good that you suggested it, but reality is different. Unfortunately, almost no researcher from the scientific institutes is involved and has no mentoring, but universities and scientific and teaching councils determine mentors, and then the problem with the choice that has a scientific calling. Someone who has a scientific calling, when they want to be chosen in teaching, one of the key criteria is mentoring, and that doesn't work. What you have suggested is that you agree with the Ministry of Education, in the Law on Education, there define that a scientific research worker at the Institute may also be a mentor and the condition that he is a mentor for doctoral dissertation. Since I'm running out of time, I'm still going to say that certain adjustments should be made and in the part that you've suggested for the election. Again, criteria are increasing, which could put a large number of researchers at risk of not meeting one of the significant criteria, which are works in international magazines, international monographs, etc. President, thank you, I will continue, possibly, in that second part of the discussion in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36100	Thank you. The word has an authorised representative of the SRS, Miss Ragush Marina.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36101	Mr. Novakovicu, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of Serbia, today should be one of the most important topics for the state of Serbia, which, unfortunately, has been leaving the best for many years. What Serbia cannot afford is that in the perspective, given that we are now the ancestors of our descendants, we create conditions for Serbia to leave those who should lift Serbia up where Serbia, Serbs, as a European people, is indeed a place. One of the essential preconditions for that, Mr. Minister, is that science, Serbian science, is free of political influence. To tell you the truth, I don't know what's more important in this context of the priority scale, what is it that needs to be done first in order for Serbian science to take its place. Just to remind you that a few of the leading experts in CERN, I appreciate that you've been there several times, are Serbian experts. Individually, we have examples that we can only be proud of. Ensuring enough material and technical assumptions is also important so that Serbian science can work. In what way? Indemnity? I'm not sure. Who's gonna get it back? With a good approach, to convince partners to invest in Serbian science – yes. Mr. Minister, then there's your part of the job. What you have been doing in Serbia for years seems to me to be an extraordinary lobbying of what is called promoting EU ideology and promoting what the interests of Brussels are. When we talk about Serbian science today, now and here, look at Parliament's hall. This hall was supposed to be full and everyone was supposed to participate in this debate, because we all have to make those arguments that Serbian science should include in one of the most influential in Europe. So this is today a disgrace to the topic of SANU, about scientific research in Serbia, about the entire academic population. Given that you are an excellent lobbyist of ideology and the implementation of EU ideology, then I would also like to ask you, do you know what the life of an academic citizen, a doctor at Belgrade University, looks like in reality? Do you know what a BU doctor can get for the huge money he's out to do scientific work? Are the B.U.s visiting foreign lecturers? Do doctors have the ability to listen, say, to transfer experiences, knowledge, to participate in the work of some other universities? What doctors have that possibility? When it comes to lecturers at the BU, the members of the SANU, project participants, tell us what projects they need to finance? Who gets the call of a regular professor? Who are the members of SANU? Please give me the best scientific names in Serbia today that are members of SANU, without being previously thrown on the knees of the ruling political elite. Perhaps this debate should end by giving me a precise answer when politics will come out of Serbian science? If you don't give me a precise answer to that question, then we have nothing to talk about, then in Serbia we cannot rise above some political frustrations and determine who are the best people who should mean prestigious scientific names. Since you are the minister of science in the Serbian government, I will be bold to present to you a historical document, and I believe you will recognize it, because, however, you represent science in Serbia, you represent the part that determines the course of science in Serbia. You will see that Serbian science is a victim of a thorough, long-term, well-designed collapse of Serbian scientific thought. Every time a scientist raised his head and told the truth, he was punished until persecution, whether in the previous, communist totalitarian system, or in someone else who replaced him. Totalitarian by system that has no right to freely express scientific thought. Maybe that's my interpretation. I'm just an MP, and imagine, the SRS, which can, as a rule, be interpreted as being extremely subjective, perhaps even underprivileged, that it only has a mind to criticise and oppose the authorities. I'll try, in the end, it's my style, to risk the chairman taking my word for it, because this exposure is going to be a little specific. I suppose it will be very colourful, to understand that the real state of Serbian science, prestigious scientific institutes and what the state of Serbia has to do with Serbian science. Mr. Minister, you who often travel through European centres and visit many scientific institutes, I'm not saying that you're not doing your best to really help science lately, I assume you know how the state's attitude towards science is. How many countries does Serbia make of gross domestic products for science? It should be the beginning and the end of every discussion. If that's 0.2%, we have nothing to talk about here. This is the state's attitude towards something that should be a locomotive for Serbia, which needs the best. How best to get it back? By giving them the best working conditions. Where's that? In what part of Serbia? By giving them the best pay. Tell me, where is it? By allowing them to be placed in the best scientific journals. Just tell me which one and who? How many of our scientists have been quoted? That's all the data we need here to have and that's what we need to talk about. Not about the legal framework, which isn't bad, but it's bad that it's inconclusive. Not the normative, which is not bad, but it is bad that within each organisation it is still decided by politics -- who will be at the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts, who will be at universities, at scientific institutes, where the money will go for scientific research. These are all bewitched circles that paint the continuation of the collapse of Serbian scientific thought in the state of Serbia. As I said in the beginning, what I have left as a historical memory, and it seems to me, a document that has determined the future and position of Serbian science, is something that I will quote to you, and in the end I will tell you the source, although I suppose many here will recognize it, especially you, because you are still the minister of science. So, in the part of the "Serbian and Serbian People's Position", the document says that, when it comes to Serbia's lagging behind, Serbia has lagged behind just because it has been planned, in some previous political systems in Serbia, yet at least invested. So, primarily because it came from smaller investments per capita, not because of the poorer efficiency of investments. According to official statistics, the efficiency of investments in Serbia is lower in the whole period after World War II than in Slovenia and Vojvodina alone. During the last decade, the period 1976-1983, "more efficiency could only partially compensate for the loss of social product due to smaller investments, but was unable to prevent the formation of the value of fixed assets per capita from only 80.5% of the Yugoslav average". Of course, I can't quote the whole document, but parts will be enough to understand the continuity of the collapse of Serbian scientific thought and why that is. "Serbia's economic subordination cannot be fully understood without its political inferior position, which it has set and all relations in the previous political system. The capitulation of political representatives of Serbia cites many thoughts, above all, on their right to take such a step. The question arises -- who is authorized to accept a decision that states Serbia's economy is ruling on long-term lagging in the future, with inevitable political consequences? It is about the enormous resources needed to launch Serbia's economic development and address the existential issue of a large number of young people without a job, greater than in any other republic. Without a referendum from the Serb people, the only one empowered to shape his own destiny, no one should usurp the right to negotiate, decide and agree to make serious restrictions on the economic development of the people. '"Be careful, as if we're talking about today's moment. But let's move on. "The real victims for the development of the three undeveloped republics and the province of Kosovo have submitted only Serbia, paying assistance to others by their own lagging behind. With three developed areas, that wasn't the case. The application of the contribution rate to the social product did not adhere to the basic rule that the obligations are measured according to the economic strength of the obligor. The proportional rate spared Slovenia, Croatia and Vojvodina a progressive contribution. Despite Serbia's contribution to the development of undeveloped areas, eased the burden on the developed, it does not come to understanding either one or the other for its lagging behind. The mutual interest points to two types of areas in the coalition, in order to maintain an existing state in which it meets its interests, again at Serbia's expense. With the 1974 constitution, Serbia is literally divided into three parts. Autonomous provinces are all equal to republics, except they are not defined as states and do not have the same number of representatives in individual Federation bodies. It has increased, for example, the influence of those outside the provinces and Vojvodina, which, by spreading disinformation, seek to divide the Serbian people into Serbians and Precan Serbs. The provinces, with the help of others, became a constituent element of the Federation. Thus, a set of unresolved relations in the Republic of Serbia logically stems from its constitutional position and the election of separatist and autonomous personnel, who, precisely because of such orientation, enjoyed the well-being of those who held the staff monopoly in Yugoslavia. Without proper counter-weight in coordination and regionalisation, this, as a rule, turns into provincial tightness and blindness for wider national interests. In his time, Jovan Cvijic estimated that in all villages, from the great one under Arsenija Čarnojevic, from 1690 to the first years of our century, more than 500 thousand Serbs were expelled. Out of that number, between 1876 and 1912, about 150,000 Serbs had to leave their hearths under the harsh terror of local and privileged Albanian bazaar. During the last war, more than 60,000 Serbian colonists and antiques were expelled, but after the war, this wave of emigration experienced a real tide. Over the past 20 years, about 200,000 Serbs have left Kosovo and Metohija. Kosovo, unfortunately, is not the only area in which the Serb people are under pressure of discrimination. Absolutely, not only the relative decline of the number of Serbs in Croatia, there is sufficient evidence for this claim. According to the 1948 census, there were 14.48% of Serbs in Croatia. According to the 1981 census, their number decreased, so it was 11.5% of Serbs. Under the fact of the ruling ideologies, cultural fluids of the Serbian people are alienated, adopted or certified, ignored or collapsed, the language is suppressed, the Cyrillic letter is gradually lost. The area of literature, in that sense, serves as the main scene of self - will and lawlessness. No other Yugoslav people are as harshly challenged by cultural and spiritual integrity as the Serbian people. No literary or artistic heritage has been so exploited, overstretched and tarnished as a Serbian heritage. Political criteria of ruling ideology are imposed on Serbian culture as more valuable and stronger than scientific and historical ones. As Slovenian, Croatian, Macedonian and Montenegrin cultures and literature are now integrated, Serbia is the only one systematically disintegrating. Reputable Serbian writers are the only ones on the blacklists of all Yugoslav mass media. In the compulsory school lecture, Serbian literature is severely damaged, because it is mechanically subordinated to the administrative criterion of the republican and regional reciprocity, not to measure quantity or value. In school programmes some republics and provinces, the history of the Serbian people is not only harshly ideologically reduced, but also exposed to chauvinistic interpretations. Just at a time when the unsuspecting assets of the extra battery were disintegrated, a restrictive policy was conducted towards the university, which was getting less and less funds. For decades and a half of colleges, they had no opportunity to choose new assistants, so that the oldest Yugoslav universities, especially Belgrade, never had a higher age average of teaching and scientific staff. What is the basic lever of development in all countries in the time of the technological and computer revolution, university and science, is completely neglected in us. University reforms, most often imposed by political force, and not by scientific reason, were missed. In particular, major damage has caused the separation of science from universities, the creation of barriers, systematic and administrative, between institute and university science. The university lost its laboratory base, parallel programs were created, human being science was divided, normal scientific personnel flow from the university to the institutes was disabled, and vice versa. At this difficult crisis moment, we must begin to think about tomorrow and the 21st century, although the socio-economic circumstances do not agree with us. The Serbian Academy of Science and Arts at this time expresses its readiness to all its strengths in these fateful tasks, our generation's historic tasks. This, Mr. Minister, is the famous Serbian Academy of Science and Arts Memorandum. These were quoted pieces. I completely rejected the possibility of paraphrasing this document, which is why Serbian people, Serbian science, Serbs in general, are accused before The Hague tribunal of large-scale Serbian claims. Now I would like each and every one of you, unfortunately, your associates cannot answer, but certainly you can, I ask – is what is written false and can what is written to apply today to Serbian science? Now that you know it's a SANU Memorandum, he has never become an official document, Professor Micunovic can confirm that, he's already been stolen from the kitchen table of an academic and released to "Evening News", but it was reason enough for lobbyists of this order of things that we now live in and in this present day, in which Serbia survives, to collapse on the Serbian people and to launch a campaign that is now ending in front of The Hague tribunal. As you can see, Serbian science has had what is supposed to be scientific-intellectual work, which is courage, to stand up openly in crisis moments and most truthfully and objectively tell the truth. Mr. Minister, I expect you to say who, for example, systematically destroyed the Vinci Science Institute. I have before me the text of Jasna Olujic, who, by the way, is also the president of the Association of Deans of the Institute for Nuclear Research, which last October presented concrete information that we are now in a situation that due to poor management and poor assessment we are borrowing an additional $25m to solve the problem, which is now a huge problem for the state of Serbia. I will discuss this during the debate in detail, because my time is slowly but surely running out, and I will also have the opportunity to present to you the open letters of certain scientists who are discriminated against by the ministry's political will distribution of funds, and it concerns the necessary resources for their scientific research work. To get back to the beginning of exposure, I hope you don't take this personally. You and I don't know each other personally, but you're a proposing representative, and I'm really interested in how in reality what you've presented here is going to be applied in a spectacular way. I'd like to repeat the question. How much money should Serbian science be put on an acceptable standard if EU policy is a standard before status? When will Serbian science be freed from enormous political influence? The answer to these two questions offers us a serious and practical debate about doing something for generations to come, and it's about keeping them, staying in the only country. One more question, you won't mind me, but also my colleague Martinovic and I are interested in how many of you in the government have dual citizenship? That would also be one of the interesting answers.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36102	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Dragoljub Micunovic, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36103	Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this afternoon's debate, I would like to commend the minister and his team's efforts to develop a strategy that has very faithfully shown our poor condition. On the other hand, they did not just stay at the finding, describing the poor state and moaning over our opportunities, but also sought to contribute to how we will develop science in the future, with several ideas I would like to praise, first of all, the Centre for the Popularization of Science. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to start with a little anecdote, or a joke, to give the historical root. At the end of the 18th century, the great German philosopher George Wilhelm Hegel had a degree insis that read "The Evil State of Science and Enlightenment in the People Under the Turks". So that our evil condition was recorded somewhere 200 and a few years ago. Our Nobel laureate Ivo Andric, when he received his doctorate in Graz, has once again dedicated himself to the state of our people under the Turks. We can conclude that the Turks are very much to blame for everything. It would be all right if the Turks hadn't left 200 years ago and then there were Serbs, such as Dositej Obradovic, who came and, from the experiences they gained by traveling around Europe, knowing scientists and enlighteners, said – people, building schools. That "build a school" steamer occasionally had success, and occasionally she didn't. Everything else was being built and less schooling. We have a problem that science doesn't have just friends and propaganda, it has its enemies. There are many forces, people who love to fool the people, either through the media, or in other ways, than they open the door to science. Science is an integral part of civilization and without it civilization would be gone, but it always had enemies. Many have been paid with their heads, burned because of their discoveries, persecuted, forbidden deeds. Not to mention, from Jordan or Galileo, that list is huge. You can't find some serious scientist in social science who didn't have trouble banning his books or burning them. Science had been hard to break through, but it was the quintessence of humanity, some kind of mind world, that revealed everything and enabled the development and economy and education and culture and everything else. Unfortunately, our state of science is bad. I'd say, repeating Hegel, an evil state in which that science lies. What's our main problem? It's always mentioned that it's a financing issue. It is one sign of science-relationship, and when the budget was made, that's when I talked about many other people who have influence, that disaster is so little to single out for science, about 0.2% or 3%, at best. It didn't take much wisdom to realize that a century of knowledge was coming, because science was freed from any discipline, and at the same time its utilitarian value was seen. It can be applied to various things, to the development of the economy, therefore, business is doing well when the pharmaceutical industry or any other, military, cosmic, progresses thanks to science, but also when medicine is progressing. It's a question of all mankind, it's a matter of health. The extension of life that we have on average today is the result, too, of scientific research in pharmacology and medicine. Science has become useful today. In the century where we live, where utilitarianity has become a dominant value, science has a chance everywhere, it seems, just not with us, because we can hardly quickly understand what is useful and that it is useful to support it with all our strength and team up. We have three laws here, and we have a strategy. We also have concepts of a rather ambitious, optimistic, maybe, sometimes pre-optimistic vision that science should develop in us. We have some disagreements here. When we compare all these laws, then we see that we are standing in front of a problem of how science develops. On one side we have the Academy of Science, which is a hybrid institution, has history. Like many other feudal institutions, they were royal academys, where they were mixed honors, confessions, with some real reputation. Later that changed, and today there are few of these prestigious academys in the world, many more of those specialized, operational, actual research work being done. On the other hand, when she puts herself into a system, that's where we have problems. On the one hand, it is completely autonomous and, on the other hand, funded by the state, we do not have a clear number of members, who may be and what are the criteria. In order for someone to be a scientific associate, he has to pass his doctorate, he has to publish papers here and abroad, and for a senior research associate and advisor, books are sought, etc. We have no clear criteria, nor is it under this law of the Academy obliged to give us how to become an academic. Based on one general opinion that they can have about themselves and society about them, it doesn't matter, but, in any case, we don't have an objectivity to it. It is certain that there are very important people to be marked and, if necessary, rewarded, but there must be some clear criteria. The French Academy retains this prestigious, elite house, full of honors, etc., it has a number clause, it means there's a limited number, and then it's waiting for someone else to die to jump into that pantheon and fill that place. If that's not there, we have a pretty undefined situation. I know it's a traditional institution, and I know it's not that easy to make reforms in this sector, and I understand some government opportunism to leave the issue. It's a bit of a fixer-upper, but we don't have a clear place where the Academy of Science is located in the scientific research system. That's my principled remark, with what I'm about to say later. I don't think that preamble, that 1st member doesn't even need to go into history as one academy was created. This second part of the law has the corrections of previous laws and has the desire to introduce scientific evaluation. We recently had a debate in one of the scientific evaluation stands, and that is a big problem. There are no clear criteria, because there is no scientific public. Without the scientific public, you can't come up with any and all objective values in science, art, anywhere. I haven't read a single literary review for a long time that would criticise a novel or song or some scientific paper, only boast and share awards on all sides. That means there's no critical public. It's a big question that prevents scientific evaluation, that we know why someone is, and that's his contribution, whether that contribution is real, or whether it's just a matter of a particular clan where something can be propagated. The problem is how to determine the criteria of scientific evaluation. Of course, there are some criteria that are quite under attack here, which are criteria of internationalization. Let's see what it is that we're geniuses in, so let's compare it and see if that's the case. We know what kind of resistance Bologna has come across, and in general, this attempt to value someone else, or evaluate our work. It was an entire rebellion at the Academy – it won't tell us about our historical records anyone in Italy or anywhere. But science is international and there is no Serbian, Turkish, American science. There are institutions, but science is international and, unlike literature, when some mathematical theorem is set up or when a meteorite is discovered, that its name is given to a scientist, and that is the fluid of humanity. When Jordan Bruno was burned, that is, before they burned him, they asked him to give up statements that the cosmos was infinite, that there was an infinite number of worlds. He said to his prosecutors, "I'm sick of all this trouble, I can give up everything, my name and honor, talk about me whatever you want, accuse me of all the evils of this world, but I can't give this to you, because it doesn't belong to me, but belongs to humanity. It's God or anyone else through me talking and I don't have the right to take it back. "Later, with Galileo, it was a little relativeized, but it is a problem that science is international. In this respect, it would be normal for her to be internationally evaluated. Whether she means something in that general international competition or not, whether we found a cure against some disease, not just for our patients, but whether it's in the world. That's how science progresses, it can't go any other way. Unfortunately, we lived under a variety of circumstances, not to go back to history, which has given us a lot of provincialization, we were in isolation and one of the greatest damages brought to us by the international community with its sanctions was just scientific isolation. Our people couldn't go to conventions, they couldn't publish their works, they couldn't even come to magazines, it was forbidden. Those 10 years are years behind, lost years. In a world of rapid technological and scientific development, for 10 years, even if we were at some high level, as MP Ilic says what we had, even if all of this were so, those 10 years were a major setback. Now we have to go from zero. It's a good thing the Ministry has seen the criteria and wants to make them according to some international standards. It's another thing that's important that when we make scientific research laws, we have to respect international standards, because science is international. Of course, there are other problems that don't always depend on us, which is a question of technology and technology development. What's new in the history of civilization, it's the speed of development, the speed of innovation. While it was sometimes possible to predict because it was the same technology, whether it's plow or rail, so it takes thousands of years, so do I, so will my grandson, so we can imagine the development of the world, at the current level of technology, that speed is so huge that no one is able to perceive its social, economic, or, if you will, criminal consequences. Just take the Internet. We all think we've always been with the Internet. Anyone who wants to remember will see that it has recently begun to be used. No one could predict the consequences of the Internet. First, in the social mile. We've been dealing with millions of dactylographers. Suddenly, an entire profession disappeared, the Internet liquidated. Then there are other problems - communication. On the one hand, the Internet suppresses discrimination and anyone can put their website, Facebook, whatever they want, and talk whatever they want, therefore, endless freedom, which has its consequences, of course. On the other hand, we have the domination of those who have the highest possibilities, the most computers. At one conference, I heard information that there are more computers in New York than there are on the entire African continent together. So when you take the software, when you take the contents, then there's a dangerous domination and, unfortunately, that's where you have to fight, too. It wasn't very predictable what it would all cause. What promises us bioengineering, what will happen during this century, will surprise us infinitely. What's good in this law is understanding the importance of technology and catching steps with modern technology. It's wrong for us to idealize now, we had a heavy industry, we had this. That's the past. It would be the stupidest thing we could do if we started building some factories now, or the machinery industry, or I don't know what we don't have a chance for. If someone invests, we team up, or the workforce gets a job, that's another question. We need to see what our resources are, I think that's where the law is well targeted. It used to be said – man is our greatest value, etc. We haven't exactly shown great caution or saving in human material, but it seems to me that we still have a lot of talented children, who win various prizes, there is intellectual potential. Where can he come out? Where there's no expensive technology that he could get involved. It is not by chance that in mathematics, in physics, in some general basic sciences we show results; it requires chalk, little intelligence, and a good teacher. We must, therefore, choose what we can do and where we can place ourselves. These digital technologies were huge funds. We were able to look at examples of Finland or Ireland, etc., where countries, just because they got their hands on some of the most modern technologies, managed to make huge shifts in their economic growth, and that allowed them to develop other areas. It's something we have to respect and understand. We know what kind of financial situation we're in, which was a yag, a budget-sharing struggle. It's a good thing that the agile minister and some other means are getting and, let me say, it's not just about his agility, but also about one desire from the international community to help, for its own reasons, not to be one hole here, development, first of all, in science, infrastructure or education. We need to use these funds to fill in wherever possible so that somehow this miserable amount that we get from the budget for learning is sufficient. I liked it very much, and I welcome the idea of creating a Centre for the Popularization of Science. We'll see. It's a great idea. What's going to happen now depends on what kind of personnel we find and what we do. I've already mentioned that science has, especially with us, strong enemies. Here, when you open the television, there you'll find so many anti-science texts, doorman, prognosis, some various semi-legends, etc. It's something that the general level of education lowers and reduces the affinity of science.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36104	Professor, time, please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36105	Thank you, there will be opportunities in the second part.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36106	Of course. The word has a minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36107	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to respond to a few elements from these first presentations of the rapporteurs, those who have singled out opinions and representatives of the parliamentary groups. I am often attacked in Serbia by optimism. I don't think it's a good idea for someone in our country to be attacked because they're optimistic. This isn't about optimism. It's about a combination of absurd imperatives and wills. It is imperative that Serbia in Europe, in this century, given what many greater and more powerful than it are currently doing and what they are about to do, and that the most lacking people can, mechanically, in the years to come, be a great loser of a globally positive phenomenon – additional investment in science and technology. It's devastating for us, because if this scientific potential is lost as much as we have, and it seems to me that we agreed this morning that we don't have enough of it, it would be a great tragedy. Then what Hegel wrote could be complemented by an ancient, Greek tragedy, and in that case we would be weak in both corridors, and by pipelines, and by pipelines, we would be a country of transit and low-tech technologies. It is therefore an imperative, but it is also an expression of will. As Professor Micunovic mentioned earlier, there were some other examples, I would have taken over these two. Finland is at a given moment, because it lost the traditional market of the Soviet Union, for reasons you know well, so there is no need for me to enter the details (she had privileged access to the market, lost it within two to three years, the unemployment rate and by then the already rich countries had grown dizzy and her coin was brutally devalued), was in a huge problem. There's even been a huge emigration from Finland to Sweden and other countries, to America. The reaction was challenging. I think Serbia has one such challenge to measure one Finland, only our situation is even more difficult and complex. They considered the national level, both the Government, the Assembly, and the trade unions, and employers and the media, the situation and realised that there are certain sectors that under new circumstances cannot in any way be the basis for the development of the nation. In particular, they chose several sectors, the most famous, which is the one we all know now, so even a large number of MPs have it in their hands today, these are telecommunications. It is correctly recognised that the development of telecommunications, especially mobile telecommunications, will be the next wave of world development. "Nokia," ladies and gentlemen, existed, but in a different form. It was a conglomerate of various industries, of wood, of the production of television, of many things. After a national decision to move in that direction, they focused on funding in the education system of Finland and sold a large number of parts of the company and, in some ways, did not say that they had gambled with their own future, but had a bold decision and a step to try to win certain positions that were not blinded at that time by some cartel or large companies, which would make access to such a new market impossible. The result is spectacular. Ireland is something different, but something closer to us. One country where it went, a country where the 19th century was starving, according to some estimates, 900,000 Irish died during three years of hunger, because potatoes, traditional food, over two or three years failed. The most talented, and not only them, were going away traditionally. At one point, one generation said that now it is enough and brilliantly exploited European integration, directing almost entirely that support, and not all countries did so, in education and science. I can tell you, in the preparation of a strategy like this, I sought and received direct contact with people now 50, 60, 70, who were there 25-30 years ago, when those fateful decisions for one such nation, which has five million inhabitants, less than our own, were made. There was a very clear decision, a state decision that Ireland, given its belonging to the EU, took advantage of what its advantages are, which is a population that speaks perfectly English, emigration and a very clear link that they built with all the Irish who lived in America and a number of them had significant positions in technology firms in that big country. Generations have been prepared that will be able to be equal partners, from workers to engineers and scientists, large technology firms, above all, from the United States, because it was a commitment at the time. What's particularly interesting is that at this moment of crisis, which this nation is going through, all these companies are not leaving. I want to say right now that this is already a challenge for Serbia, which today, by nature of things, and that is quite normal, and we should not be desperate about it, also attracts those investors who see the market and those who see relatively cheaper business conditions. What Ireland used to be, it had lower taxes, it didn't anymore. There are salaries that are more than in France, which are more than in London and Dublin. It's more expensive to live in Dublin than in London, on average, not just the most expensive parts in London. Still, those investors stay. Why? Because, after attracting such technology companies that gave the country's base of momentum, they immediately invested in development programmes at the level of significant investments, so both Apple and Esser and Del and many others have in Ireland people who together develop the future of their own companies, so leaving Ireland is something that hurts more of those companies than it would hurt only Ireland. I wouldn't give negative examples, I prefer positive ones, but there are countries that, for example, have attracted a car industry based on cheaper labour, based on more favourable tax policies. However, these things are also changed by these large international companies, cold, not loving not and hating anyone, but, as in their nature, driven only by their own interest and calculation, the first factories they closed were those where there were no development potentials. In that sense, I'm going to talk about the Fiat today. My contact with Mr. Markione was immediately on the issue of development. Today, and there was a number of debaters here right, through this movement of original privatisations, by nature things, there's no such desire, i.e. ...accounts for certain development centers to be located in our country. They already exist, there are already busy positions, and if we as a nation don't make this kind of effort, I'm not saying that this one is perfect at all, so today we're discussing it, we won't be able to, like one Finland and Ireland, in decades to come, come to a much higher level of development and to a sustainable situation. Serbia must not be a country of cheap labour, which has slightly more taxes. Our country's ambition cannot be different from the development capacity of knowledge, which at any moment is of great interest to our domestic enterprises and to international companies. It is not possible, as certain debaters today said, that we are bad at this Europe and this integration. We'd better hide our best. I'm sorry, talent is the most mobile thing in the world. At the moment of the Internet, the worst strategy would be closing, because only young people would leave. And the white Schengen, and the binding in EP 7 projects, and opening to European and other scientific centres, is actually more of an argument that our talented people define Serbia as their permanent base, along with the necessary mobility that goes with every scientific and technological career. The idea of this whole strategy and these laws, the honourable Members of Parliament, is on various elements, which are, above all, pragmatic, listening to those who are at this moment the subject of our greatest attention, are those who have this knowledge or skills that can be placed outside, and, on the other hand, can be the basis of our new model of development. Personally, at first, my associates know it best, I was against the Ministry of Science being involved in any way in co-operation with non-communicative housing units, assuming, as some have said, that this should be dealt with in another way. Someone else will deal with it, and then let's focus these scarce resources, including these funds from the arrangements with the European Investment Bank, exclusively in scientific equipment, exclusively in programmes and in what, without any doubt, science and what only the Ministry of Science and Technological Development can and must do. I've changed my mind. Why? Because scientists themselves, the leaders of our scientific community, and not only those who work with our own who are in the country, but also those who have managed to preserve and restore a number of our scientists and engineers, have made a positive statement that, in a comparative sense, the possibility of assigning apartments through competitions (already two lames in Block 32 have been completed and already this year, thanks to you, if you ratify an agreement with the European Investment Bank, we will be able to end the third lamela, where the competition is already over, where 200 families are expecting, and not only that, but also four additional lames in Block 32a in New Belgrade, but also in Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac, it will be a thousand and a few more housing units) have proved to be a discriminatory factor in stabilising scientific and technological talent. That's the way it is. On the other hand, if we consider those elements mentioned by respected MPs, for example, about the opportunities in the area of agriculture, of course our country has that possibility. Last year we had a 215m-euro surplus with the EU and Serbia is the only country in the region that has such a surplus, but to move forward, given the 1.3m hectares we have, we cannot have a more intense system. It's right that those who spoke this morning about our remaining strong positions in the area of seminary are at risk. Yes, but in no way does that mean that we can have a future through calling our market. On the contrary, the offensive, the will, the solution under the imperative, is the solution. Therefore, most likely, but it will be subject to further discussion, we are going towards unification in the right way, not through the necessary legal integration of what we have, because there are brands and positions in different markets that are suitable, but it is not right to have problems in the most ordinary elements of business today, for example, for the sake of a turnover of capital, which can in a slightly weaker year endanger our positions. We can't go against the enormous international seminary cartel to go in a broken band, with ununited finances and inability to at least with that strength we have as a nation go into that game. This is both scientific and technological, and as you can see, at the very beginning, a very economic and applied story. As far as politicization is concerned, dear People's MP, you're the authority of non-litigation. You are a member of the parent board and the fact is that we haven't changed, here, for a year and a half, any member of the parent board, that now comes by the end of March, according to what was determined according to their mandate, to the logical end of the term of office of the members of the parent committee chosen, if I'm not mistaken, four years ago. There were natural spills and replacements on boards. It wasn't, I think we've proven it by the work of both these teams and the way we treat ourselves, whatever rematchism, whatever politicization, but they've always asked for ideas more, to push things forward. As for the Academy of Sciences, yes, it was also difficult for her recent history, she did come out of what was the normal work of a science academy. It is up to historians to say and to make known whether it was necessary, whether it was necessary; in any case, new times and normal ingenuity. I can only remind myself that various countries had various solutions in this domain. There's little known about us that the Czech Academy of Science is just a legal shell. In the Czech Republic, there is no longer one single academic for calling, because over the past decades, the institution has gone deeper and deeper into the daily-political topics, where science is not a place. As politics is no place in science, there is no place in politics, except for informing public policies, i.e. in the formation of an economic system, but through influence, not through day-to-day political engagement, so that this law that is before you will ensure the normal functioning of a European academy, which in a normal, economic way will be able to manage the resources it has, but in no way is what exists in some countries. I can tell you, through a number of discussions I've had with both academics and science ministers, and with people from the public life of those countries, there's no sharing of the scientific community between the academy, on the one hand, and the rest of the scientific community, on the other. The criteria will be the same. The assignment of the project will be in the same way, and the verification will, through the accreditation of the Academy Institute, be arranged in the same way in perspective. Ending with these few, let me say, remarks and elements about what we've just heard, I can only say that it encourages what we heard this morning that, independently of political parties, it recognizes the importance of this topic. It's safe, and that's where I'd end up if it wasn't enough to isolate 0.3% of the budget. But there's no room to whine. I can tell you, if in the 2011 budget this house decides to increase 1% of wages and pensions, it will be a total gauge of one entire science budget, 1%. In front of us, in a few months, decisions will be important again. It is easy to say that everything is important, because everything is important, but one moment comes to a decision and to the 2011 budget proposed by the Government and to the budget that this assembly will accept or not. In that sense, this is the initial chapel, the possibility of going through this transitional, very important year, to prepare in the right way a call for the next five years of scientific projects to work out these arrangements with the European Investment Bank. I can tell you that this has already made it possible in the European budget for 2010 to provide us with an additional 25m euros, which will serve as an infrastructure for higher education, with the aim of ensuring a much better competitiveness of diplomats on the labour market. It's just the beginning. We are very much talking to the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe. I must tell you that we will continue to make every effort in the budget for the next year and in the Vojvodina budget, we hope, at some other levels of government, and from these arrangements, to provide as much resources as possible, but with the team and, hopefully, with many among you, with members of the scientific community, that we will go directly into contact with those who can be our greatest enemies and also the greatest allies. It's big tech companies. Today in Budapest 3,000 Hungarian scientists and engineers work for Ericsson, 1900 Hungarian scientists and technologists work for the already mentioned "Nokia". I'm sure it's much better if these giants come to Serbia, so our people don't go to work for them, or wherever. Diversification awaits us, although today, when we talk about it, it looks like a rather long stick, so people say – where is this economy? Through the Innovation Activities Fund, we will support our domestic teams to build these new companies, with these new patents, with these new opportunities. We'll support students where there's a technology element with us, and at the same time we'll find, I'm confident, favourable arrangements, that someone, instead of kidnapping people, comes and invests in us. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36108	I thank you, too. I'm setting a break of one hour. We'll continue at 15 hours. The first daughter to receive Dr Zoran Mašić as a replica, he was mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36109	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session in the afternoon. The right to a replica was sought, and will be won, by the MPs Zoran Mašić and Zoran Shami. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36110	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear People's MPs, Minister, I would like to tell you, since you, by hand, have addressed me, that I am certainly not the right example of whether there was politicization and whether there is politicisation in the Ministry of Science, by being a member of the parent board for biotechnical sciences, because you know that members of the parent committees within the Ministry of Science are, above all, chosen by the scientific title they have, which is the most scientific calling – a scientific adviser or a regular professor, and that is not taken into account in any sense the political membership of any member. I hope so. Just because I'm a member of this party, I'd just interpret it as political retribution. On the contrary, the connotation of my presentation, and on the matter of politicisation, is your proposal to appoint seven members of the board of directors within the scientific or national institutes, or, in general, the institute of which is the founder of the government or state. So far there have been, as you know, eight, and half of it was from the institute, and half of it was from the representatives of the social community. Now most board members are delegated to the government, allowing individual candidates for political membership to be elected or appointed directors of the institute. You can't possibly argue that it doesn't give it a possibility, which doesn't mean it's going to be automatically, but I have examples, and I'm just because of the names of these people and their belongings to the parties, I'm not going to say, I can, eventually, after, in a conversation or any other occasion. I'd like it to be no reason, and that you've explained that the reason for your proposal is just the fact that it was created at certain times in a stalemate position, that you couldn't appoint a director, so that was the reason to be named this way. I think that's the primary reason. You didn't answer what I asked you in the debate. If you will, I would ask you to answer that – why do you propose five members of the National Council as businessmen, because I think it is unnecessary, that they cannot improve, i.e. apply the results of scientific research work, given the total number, if that was the primary motivation? On the other hand, an explanation to increase the selection criteria for scientific calls in relation to the existing regulation that regulates it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36111	The word is wanted by the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36112	In short, I would like to say that today, members of the parent committee are appointed by the minister. I think the operation will be strictly in line with the principles of metricocracy, not by who has some kind of party book. I can only say, in terms of the situation at the institutes, that we're going to need a significant action within these institutes. It is hard to believe that the only segment of our society where no changes are needed is a network of our scientific research institutions, which has been intact for approximately 30 years. Almost no institute showed up, none of them shut down, a large number of them, especially in social sciences, just changed his name. In line with priorities and through dialogue and incentives, and not through force, I believe we will come to some rationalisation. As far as businessmen are concerned, I think we will find it difficult to go to what we agree on, at least in principle, which is that most of our sciences are being translated into products, and that we refuse dialogue, in fact, with these businessmen, which, of course, are not scientists, nor are they asked by businessmen in the National Council for Science and Technology to be some quasi-scientists. No, they're expected to contribute to this high-level forum, which will not be the only but very important, at the level of economic and scientific elites, to establish one part where we can see in which dams it is possible. I'm sure the businessmen will have a better proposal for companies that have the opportunity to apply such innovations. In the same way, since this is now a small and direct experience in the past few months, in making this strategy, to contribute to both scientists and businesses; it does not necessarily contribute to scientists to be better scientists, but it certainly helps them to know better in which direction what they are doing and to businesses – to see what science can suggest and what could be better for them in a commercial sense. In that sense, this increase in the number of businessmen, including those who traditionally take away our best people, to be there and to discuss with them ways to produce and develop their ideas with us, with our people, and not taking people away from us, is, I think, something that will contribute to the good functioning of this advice.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36113	Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? (No) I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled and uniform search, applied for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of G17 plus, New Serbia, ZES, Advanced Serbia, DSS and the SRS. We are moving to the course of the session, where, in order of the MPs, according to the application for a word in the joint principle and uniform search of the proposals for the laws referred to in points 9, 10, 11, 12, 16 and 17 of the agenda, MPs will appear. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, as well as wanting to respect members who define the order of reporting, but also Article 27, which I make sure that all those who have the right to do so can take advantage of, will be the first MP, Goran Mihajlovic, after him, MP Simo Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36114	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, within the framework of a set of six laws we are discussing today, there is also a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Innovation Action, which was first defined by us five years ago, at the end of 2005. The period of these five years as long as this law exists in Serbia is not too long, it is not too short, but it is still so that some recapitulation can be carried out, or an analysis of the effects it has had on innovation activities in our republic. In accordance with the provisions of this proposal for a law, all activities involving the creation of new products, technologies, processes and services and their application in practice are considered, i.e. for the promotion of NIS. The National Innovation System. This system is in itself a complex and complex structure, consisting of companies, various public enterprises, universities, research centres and various agencies and associations, and all of them should act coordinated to achieve the desired effect, which is the faster and easier application of scientific and technological knowledge in RS. It is known that the most developed countries in the world invest considerable funds, as many as 10 billion euros a year, in science and technology, and this funding goes either through national budgets or by large companies and corporations, while in Serbia, unfortunately, this sum is less than hundreds of millions of dollars and we are already in an unequal position with the most developed countries. Statistics say that the 0.3% of GDP that stands out for science and technology and up to a dozen times less than the most developed universities and institutes in the world stand out for scientific research. On the other hand, it should be noted that all countries have so-called countries. A list of national priorities that depend on the economic development and market orientation of each concrete country, so probably by modeling them, our Ministry of Science and Technology, as the entire government wants to copy experiences from the world, has brought a list of some seven priorities in the domain of science and technology. These priorities would be biomedicine, new materials, environmental protection, energy, agriculture and food, information and communication technologies and improving state decisions and affirmation of national identity. The main carrier of all these activities is the Ministry of Science and Technology. The ministry came up with another ambitious project, which is the creation of an innovative society in Serbia. What does that mean? It would probably be some imaginary society that should be followed by all the institutions in this country, and the goal is for new technologies and products to appear on the market as quickly as possible, to be placed on foreign markets, where, unfortunately, there is a severe competition that we can hardly follow under these circumstances. To this end, the National Strategy for Scientific and Technological Development of RS was created from 2010 to 2015, whose ultimate goal in 2015 is to single out 1% of GDP for science and technology. You see, all that sounds nice, but it's asking, as always, the logical question – where do you get money for such ambitious and massive projects? It is likely that most Serbian citizens know that they are being provided, as always, under that stalking scheme -- through a credit arrangement, i.e. loans from world banks, and we are witnessing that yesterday was one such law – some 200m euros were taken from the European Investment Bank. It would be all right if that money were spent where it was intended, but we know from experience that most of these funds end up on some imaginary projects where, as a rule, those who are close to the current government and the regime are involved, and the RS and its science and technology have very little in common. The question is, who will pay you back one day, because you have opened each session to a part of the agenda that is related to the approval of credit arrangements? If you look at the agenda and these current sessions, you can see that even four points are related to the approval of international loans. These are points 4, 5, 29 and 30, and then the question arises – are we doing something good or bad for our future generations, because, Mr. Bozo, the old saying says that debt is a bad friend. So we should be very careful when we take these credit arrangements, because one day it's going to have to come back. Just out of fear of being granted this loan, you have suggested that this law be adopted by emergency procedure, but the old saying says – anything that is fast, it is short, so greater damage can bring a quick adoption of such a law than it would be to its failure. It is a very inconclusive argument that you have provided that the failure to adopt this law has double damage, both by the Ministry of Innovation and by institutions dealing with scientific research in RS, because, as we know, if these laws are adopted, it is very unlikely that they will live in practice. When will your laws come into practice? The answer is simple, when you are able to revive the Serbian economy. But, as things stand, unfortunately, with this and this way of working your government, it will be difficult to happen and we hope that it will happen the day when Serbia is brought by decent people, ready to deal with current problems, which will host all the money taken from the budget, out of the people's pocket. I must express one regret about this law. Two days ago, when the law on student and student standards was passed, I commended the Ministry of Education because it seemed to me that no law had been passed long ago without the tutorship of one of the European institutions. The Ministry of Education then thought of it with its own head, but unfortunately it cannot be said about this law today, because you said in your own explanation that it was done on the basis of the famous SAA and the National Programme for Serbia's EU integration, which means it is continuing again with that old practice that the laws in this assembly are being passed at the will and extent of foreign contracting authorities. Finally, let me add that other colleagues from the SRS Group will explain the other laws of this set, so that citizens of Serbia can get a round, clear picture of the issues dealt with by these laws, and the concreteisation of these laws will be carried out on the day we discuss in particular, that is, when we defend the amendments of our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36115	Nine minutes and 35 seconds used from the time of the Parliament's group. Before I give my word to MP Sima Vukovic, I am informing the MPs that, on the basis of Article 85(5), we will work today and after 18 hours, until the debate on the agenda point that will be the subject of our work at that moment. At the same time, a notice from RTS that, on Friday, March 5, 2010, due to earlier commitments, up to 17 hours will be followed by a meeting of the Serbian Parliament in a direct transmission, followed by a delayed transfer. The word has a National MP, Simo Vukovic. Please just sign in. Here you go. After him, MP Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36116	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in my presentation, I will refer to the SAN Law proposal. When we talk about this proposal, we can hardly get into that topic without touching the social context we are currently in. Part of an external context, rather, international, and some of the trends that exist, has already been touched by the minister in his opening statement. There has been an institutional crisis in Serbia for a long time, which has not passed SANU. This institutional crisis, which also plagues this parliament, despite its legality and legitimacy, is in fact a decline in the reputation and lack of credibility needed by SANU itself. On the other hand, when we sublime all those echoes and public debates that have been going on for a long time on this law, which was already to be found twice in this debate, he conducted a series of criticisms and constructive proposals, so that this law would be as useful as possible for organising and strengthening the role, the functional role of SANU. Serbia is not very full of institutions that have a tradition of nearly 170 years old. SANU faced various challenges throughout his long history. The academy still faces the challenge he mentioned today, I think, Professor. Micunovic, which is reorganising and adapting to what today's needs are, above all, Serbian citizens. SANU had particularly severe pressure after World War II, when it was marked as a reactionary centre in Serbia and a potential point of resistance to the then Broz regime. SANU was part of the time and managed to resist the pressure, so the refusal to join Vladimir Nazor, Peter Lubarda, Mark Celebonovic was recorded, but the resistance in SANU, ahead of the regime, could not last long and we know well that both Broz and Cardelj and Moša Pijada were received in SANU. Understanding the social circumstances at the time, we cannot blame our academics today. The great challenge for the Academy, where it seems to me, in one part and kneeled, is this Memorial era, so I call it, because before the end of 1986, SANU brought this document, which has been mentioned here many times today, and is also the subject of today's debate, both in the academy itself and in the public. We can add that one curiosity, which seems to me to be the same – many more people have talked about this document than they have read it. What is our job, as people sitting in Parliament, is to try, by building or resuscitating the foundation of SANU, through the adoption of this law, to adapt the Academy to what today is challenging and necessary. However, the issues that stand before us, which seem to me to be the greatest responsibility even after this law is passed by academics themselves, because it is an independent and autonomous institution, are the following, and they must be answered. Does SANU want to keep a concept that is more set on principles that were ruling in the 19th and 20th centuries? Can this institution respond to the expectations and needs of our country and society, in terms of its efficiency and productivity and participation in national-important projects? The question that also lies before the Academy, and where is the starting point of implementation of this law, is it going to work a little bit more to open the doors of the Academy of Scientists and Artists, and how should they do so anyway? Could the Academy, outside of its independence and autonomy, overcome a dose of autisticism that is present in SANU, in one lack of reflexes for important events in society rather than for daily policy issues? What's the key question, is how can we achieve this purpose of having such a defined academy as the most artistic and scientific institutions? As we can see, it is not prescribed that the founder of the institution is the Republic of Serbia, which is the largest asset cookie, and it may be one of the few institutions in the state that does not have in its management mechanism representatives of the Republic of Serbia. What makes SANU often public is a choice in the Academy's membership. There is almost no election session of the Academy of Sciences which is not and how media is accompanied. This legislative proposal, it seems to me, and we will discuss this in more detail in detail, it needs to be a little more precise to define the criteria for the selection of the Academy's membership. Bodan Popovic, the undisputed literary authority, said there are two kinds of academics, one who needs the Academy and one who needs the Academy. I'm just saying I'm worried that we're not going down the road where this first group is going to be in the position of the prevailing majority in SANU. We can't get the impression that we have one dose of incarceration, i.e. clan policy within SANU, which even some have apostrophe in public debate as setting the gerontological criteria for reception in SANU. We can't get the impression that a dozen academics hold the keys to SANU's door and that it's a girliculous Vitiosus that doesn't allow the Academy, in terms of human potential, to restore and have more productivity. What we can also ask as a question, and it is given in one of the members of this bill, is the obligation of SANU to participate in capital projects, such as "Serbian Encyclopedia" and "SANU Dictionary". As you know, the barren discussions about this take almost decades, without determining responsibility for why it is not over, and no one is clear anymore why these capital works, which are of national importance, have not been completed, and the funds have been allocated for that, and these have been the expectations of this state and society from the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts. Can we change that in the next period? The problem of the structure of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts is being treated in this bill. He, above all, records the problem of imbalances between academics who are from the fields of humanistic, social science and natural-technical. This numberus clause will lead to a balance, however, I am sure there are other problems. In the current composition of the Academy we have a great proportion between genders, only 15 women academics are in the membership, in the work composition of the Academy. On the other hand, we have this problem of the academics' age structure, which may be an imaginative academy, but it appears to be a problem. There was an interesting view during the public debate about applying the experiences of some of the accelerations that exist in Europe, which is that there is so-called. Academy internships after 68 or 70 years, with all the honours the academic gets, resulting in greater rejuvenation of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts. We see that the proposer did not consider the subject in this legislative proposal. As G17 plus, we generally support this legislative proposal, among other things, because, as a political organisation, we have denied the affirmation of knowledge of profession and science, but we believe that during the debate on amendments, we will come to a more precise definition and, with the best will and respect for one such institution, to a legal project that can enable the reform of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts in the coming years, which would be natural in the 21st century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36117	11 minutes and 55 seconds have been used since the Parliament Group's time. The word has a folk MP Zlata Djeric, after her, MP Janko Vesenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36118	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Mr. Minister and members of the Government, I would begin my presentation with the quote of a very brave man from the word of the Professor, Dean of Law Faculty, Prof. Mirko Vasiljevic, who, on 27 January of this year, held his presentation to the graduates of the Faculty of Law, those who finished their expertise at the Faculty of Heritage tradition of 202 years, with the support of the legal study of Dosite's Great School in 1808, the university which is the foundation of Serbian legal culture, the foundation of the eternal bearer of freedom, the temple of legal science and the temple of law and the eternal symbol of justice as an identical speed, according to Dr. Vasiljevic. He told his young colleagues: "Serbia is tired of the long-term pre-election state which, according to the phenomenon of the promise, takes place by the introduction of a multi-party. Serbia is tired of preaching poverty as a model model, especially the poverty of Serbian "rollex" ministers and political officials. Serbia is tired of the emptying and emptying of reforms and reformers. Serbia is tired of visible manifestations of turning a high-planet idea of freedom into its cartoon. Serbia is tired of protecting wrong values, such as union and party membership, and of not protecting true values, such as property and privacy. Serbia is tired of long-term seeking answers to the question of where it is going, why it is going and how it is going, Serbia is tired of the unilaterality of its menu -- breakfast -- politics, lunch -- politics, dinner -- politics, sleep -- politics, getting up -- politics. Serbia has been tired since the time of reckless privatisations that make people unhappy, and the state and the economy and right make private property. Serbia is tired of universities and universities generating overnight PhDs of semi-literate doctors, who should learn from them far smarter students. Serbia is tired of long-standing expectations of a time when law will not be a storm." Sending graduates to life, the professor says to them: "You, distinguished graduates, today you offer Serbia, so tired, your greatest values – youth and knowledge acquired at the University and the university that counts their foundation with the same number of centuries as the new universities and colleges created by the wave of the unfortunate age, the promotion of form without content, promotion of non-culture, ignorance and aggression of the philosophy of education as businesses, the number of days. Serbia remains only to recognize it and, for the sake of its future, to the true, not the false value, to take a chance." On behalf of these true and not false values, we expect this set of laws to bring about a real improvement in science and every kind of development in Serbia. Science and technological development in Serbia should get their right, not the Quasichant. We've already noticed in the discussion so far that we've wasted a lot of time, and we haven't been destitute in human potentials and resources. The contribution of Serbs to world science, world science and development is far greater than the contribution of our own science. When we look at individual grandiose examples, such as Tesla, such as Milankovic, like Maric, all those who have left an indelible mark in the world science, then we see that the truth that science does not belong to one people, scientific knowledge is the fluids of humanity, but we also see that as a people we have not succeeded in what belongs to our people, and these are our human resources, perhaps in the right way to use, use and allow us to lead us faster and better, the path of some happier future. First of all, what these laws need to pass, that's what colleagues were talking about, where there was a lot of skepticism – investment in scientific potential. Indeed, this investment, which will clearly bring some responsibility, which could only be a task first, fastest and probably not multiple returns, but should be paid, should be followed more seriously and more critically and controlled, so that it is not a political story, but that what we are saying today is that we will invest in some science and technological development, which we really need, is being implemented into action. The political story needs to be in a different plan this time. What I was listening to while Mr Djelic exhibited, these are priorities that are given to certain sciences that will be funded, scientific research, scientific progress of every kind, technological development, so I noticed that at the beginning of the numbered priorities of language sciences, Slavics, sciences about our language. I would only suggest that it be at the level of other, technological sciences. You need to know that the greatest and most significant discovery of humanity is what made it possible for civilization to go down the road and become a civilization – a word; before the fire, first of all, the word made it possible for us to come to all that mankind's civilization had come to. We shouldn't ignore that very language of ours and what we've been lenient about, that standardized language of ours in the 18th century, the 19th century. I would only mention that there are, and no one has been seriously involved so far, huge and numerous works in the museum, in Vienna, Vuk Karadzic, yet untranslated, yet unprocessed, which are a significant contribution to our very Serbian language and our culture, to Serbs as a people and to what we should represent as a people in world history. So, what Serbia should at this moment put into the knowledge of the world, what we say, the Middle East and the Far West, Serbia should not have the Middle East and the Far West, Serbia should be close to the whole world, because it has its world place, is that our culture, our tradition and science, to which, without a doubt, we have entrusted the world and humanity, should be accompanied in a valid way through this glorious culture of ours, which makes us so individuals, so significant in the world, and that we look at the Russians, who in just one century had an empire that broke in a bloody reckoning, bloody revolution, become an alliance of states of completely opposite orientation, and communist, and then become a military force and leader of a vast military block. She fell apart without a bullet, after 15 years, experienced her renaissance and a very significant place in the world fought again, so that she could be a power again, saving her culture, her tradition, her language, above all, and everything she was Russia for. We have the same potential. This is what our brilliant minds who have celebrated us in the world bear witness to those knowledge that they have left behind the world to which they have entrusted civilization. We will insist on that through the discussion, through the support of the amendments of colleagues who want these laws ahead of us, which the minister himself has said to be late, to be as good as possible. They will not be perfect after this, but at least to be as good as possible and to truly benefit science and Serbia in the future as it should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36119	Eight minutes and 45 seconds have been used since the Parliament Group's time. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinovic, after him, MP Milan Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36120	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I will take the opportunity to refer through the law on scientific research and changes and the addition of the Law on Innovation Work to the state and perspectives of science in our country. As the recently adopted strategy for scientific and technological development of the Republic of Serbia says, very good, I will agree with the predecessors who spoke about this strategy, the Scientific and Technological Development Strategy of the Republic of Serbia, which was given for the period 2010 to 2015, Serbia unfortunately does not play a significant role in any scientific area in Europe or in the world. On the contrary, we have significant and indisputable individual talents. Still, they can't replace the fact that none of our universities are on the list of the five hundred best universities on the so-called. The Shanghai List, nor can these individual talents replace the general state of science that we have. In the world, there was a general game for scientific and technological youth, and it will be even stronger and more unfavourable for countries that do not have enough resources to pay for these young scientific workers and talents. I'm sure there will be a migration of talent to countries that have money to pay for it. I also see that the aim of these changes and additions is to prevent one law and another law, to try in some way to stop young scientific workers, to stay in Serbia, to create here, and to try, if possible, to bring back the people who have left our country. The fact is that Germany plans to employ over 400,000 science engineers in the coming period. The fact is that the US is also planning to increase investment in science on, for us, for now, 5% of GDP is still inaccessible. We know what 5% of the U.S. GDP means. Of course China will also invest significant funds to try to bring back scientists who are now around the world and in developed countries. However, China is trying to create conditions for these people to return to the country where they went. Our best talents will be on the price and on the target of many. It is clear that Serbia must not allow itself to do so, or allow them to leave the country again. Of course they should go to specialize, perfect themselves, and that's where Serbia, hopefully, and the government, will help them, but they should go back to the country and try to help our businesses cash in on their knowledge, in which, in some ways, it has invested. Serbia's investment in science until 2000, some said about this period, was a symbolic 0.1% of GDP. It was raised to a possible 0.3% after 2000, i.e. Three times more compared to the period until 2000. Unfortunately, that is not enough yet, because we know that EU countries are investing around 1.9% of GDP now and that they aim to double that percentage. In any case, Serbia faces a major task of increasing its investment in science and trying to reduce the backdrop for the developed world. I hope so, and I am convinced that this government is doing everything in its power to do so. These changes are in that direction. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Scientific Action and the Law on Innovation Work represents the introduction of standards and quality that create conditions for greater importance of science and better evaluation of innovation activity. Citizens watching this transmission and citizens, in general, will wonder what benefits they have and what, in general, means better regulation of this area for the state of Serbia and its citizens? By passing and applying this law, i.e. by amending and supplementing the Law on Scientific Action, it will be possible, above all, to streamline the network of scientific and research organisations, the close co-operation of science and colleges, or universities, and, more importantly, the closer co-operation of these institutions with the economy. This should ultimately reflect the competitiveness of our economy and catching steps with developed societies. This, in the end, means a better standard for ordinary citizens, to stop the drain of personnel, but also to create conditions for the return of our people, scientists, who are currently working abroad and contribute to the economies of the countries in which they are currently working. A large segmentation of the scientific institutes, where we have to agree with the minister, and suspending the rejuvenation of these institutes put these institutes at risk of becoming themselves enough, to be closed to continents that have no too much contact with reality, first of all, with economy. The creation of strong national institutes, created by the merger of two or more institutes, can lead to the grouping of related segments of scientific research and this can lead to new quality. If they are in direct contact with the university and the economy, they can be a serious link in strengthening the competitiveness of our economy and society. Let us not forget that social science institutes can be a significant base of research, at the same time, based on changes and ways of thinking in society. The political elite should make more use of quality research of such formed and so-called social science institutes, so that there are fewer volunteers in politics, which are among some political parties today. That's how all responsible countries do it, that's how all responsible governments do it, and Serbia strives to be responsible for itself and its citizens. The Change of the Law on Scientific Action achieves the definition of priority, basic development and applied scientific research programmes, creating conditions for the application of research, better integration with higher education institutions, improving efficiency, more efficient distribution of resources for science, which has been a problem so far. It is a big question, when we mention these 0.3% of GDP, whether these funds have been allocated in the right way and whether they have been given in those projects that in some way contribute to and develop the economy. This law provides for the possibility of improving and applying technology as a result of its own development. Unfortunately, I've already said that a good part of the science projects so far has been out of reality and time and I'm enough for myself. Their useful value was very controversial. Even the names of the projects themselves, those who worked on the evaluation of these projects well knew, were meant to cloud the content, were considered – "an abstract title provides scientific character", and, unfortunately, the support of the state. That practice, I'm sure, will stop through these changes and additions to the law. The useful value of scientific work should be first, whether it be natural or social sciences. The bill redefines the competence of the National Council for Scientific and Technological Development. Very important newspapers are in the establishment of research registers and research organisations, through the establishment of an electronic database, all available. The establishment of the Centre for the Promotion of Science is significant. I will join all the debaters who have said that it is very important that our science be popularized, brought to the public, that young people who need to be educated understand the need, that one day when they become scientists will be socially recognized. It's very important that the researcher's re-election institute is precise and defined in scientific calling. I'll briefly say something about amendments to the IPR Act, which protects intellectual property in a better way. We know that she was often an unrecognizable category with us and that she was endangering herself in every way possible. That's why our inventors, the authors of industrial design, the inventors in general, were forced to protect their patents, their products of knowledge outside our country. Concerningly, I think the minister brought it out, that about 14 patents have been registered throughout the country in the past year, and from 2003 to 2007, when it comes to research organisations, only 54 patents have been registered. Why? Just for the reason I said before, what intellectual property wasn't protected. So intellectual property should be adequate to any other property form, property on the property, property on the moving matter. Intellectual property should be similar to these forms of property, i.e. to being pandan and properly protected. This law provides an opportunity to boost the interest of the economy in introducing new technologies and creating conditions for the development and production of products with international competitiveness. This would make innovation work a function of economic growth. That's the point. To that end, provisions that further define concepts related to intellectual property, containing a strategic document from this area, specify the powers of the ministry for this area, remove non-functional norms, expand the network for the provision of infrastructure support for innovation work. Finally, I believe that the amendments and additions to the Law on Scientific Action and the Law on Innovation Action, I would say, and the Law on the Matika of Serbia, as well as the Strategy for Scientific and Technological Development of Serbia from 2010 to 2015, a document defining priority investment in science, in the end, and yesterday's good news that Serbia will be able to use 200m euros from the EIB, precisely for science projects, good news for scientists and for scientific institutes, for universities, but also for Serbian citizens. I hope that this percentage of the participation of science in the overall GDP will be significantly higher in the next period. Finally, as an DS MP, I am pleased that the development of science is part of the DS programme, part of those jobs we are building for Serbia as a well-organised, modern European state, and that is why I look forward to making mine contribute to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36121	It's been used 14 minutes since the MP's group's time. The People's Messenger Milan Knezevic has the word, and after him, the National Messenger Jelena Travar-Miljević.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36122	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is on our agenda today, in a united debate, a set of laws relating to scientific research. Most speakers, not to repeat, are the importance of the Strategy, the importance of scientific and technological development and these laws. I think that most citizens of Serbia are aware that for every society and state, the development of science and technology is a worthwhile thing, which leads to the strengthening of the economy of a country, so the discussion of this is clear to all, only that we are as opposition MPs, because of these united debates, always disabled due to limited time. We read the whole law, we know the good side of the law. Our presentations should not be understood as a knock-down and looking at the bad side of the law. At least because of the awareness and importance not only of these and those laws since yesterday, but also of the future laws that we are about to pass, we are responsible for watching and paying attention to those members of the law that represent a bad solution, which can in an appropriate way represent a weak point of the law and therefore, perhaps, in the implementation, compromise all the legal regulations that are being passed. I'm saying this because we're faced with a time limit, so very often we don't have time to argue to the government, not just the government, but also to the citizens who watch these transfers, we make clear the reasons why we think that some part of the law is a bad solution and that would be better. In that situation, we're limited in time. We're looking up at the stopwatch. We often lose a step in arguments. Now I'd move on to some law from this set. Although I came from this first one that was united, about scientific research, encouraged by the discussion of SANU, which I wanted to speak with caution and with a view to commenting on only three or four members, I would like to say one more thing. This law on SANU was passed in 1992 and we all understand that the Academy is an institution of special national importance. As a rule, there are people at the Academy who have achieved the most in their work and efforts in science and in these humanistic and artistic sciences. Comments on criteria, which are defined a little vaguely in a member of the law, still do not need to be misused, to say they do not know the criteria for choosing in the Academy of Sciences. I'm under the circumstances, and I have to comment that, fortunately, I've had an academic named Vladimir Khan as mentor and I've had research projects since 1979. All those who ask that question are to enter the CV of these academics, so they will see clear quotes, published papers, their professional trainings. Since the 1970s, we have heard, in all the times of crisis history, the collapse of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, the stories of clans, the unclear proposition, most often from a group of people, I can say openly, who had aspirations to be there and failed. We forget the names of individual academics, appreciate the institution as such, which is the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts, which, with many other institutions, should be nurtured and that this country forms such institutes that will be respected from the youngest and preschool age to the oldest people. That's how we give strength to our country and system. I had to react, although I myself had a remark, but a cautious remark, in front of the Serbian Progressive Party, a remark we did not want to turn into amendments, because we understand that the bill leaves the Academy itself free. This freedom is seen, perhaps, in some members who do not have a legal language, as one colleague said. In fact, with all due respect, I just wanted to comment on what some of the others commented on. They commented on the Numerus Clausus, which is one of the elements that the Academy of Science will determine by its statute whether a balanced number will be limited between certain fields of science and art, in terms of natural and social, humanitarian sciences. It's something we shouldn't be getting into. They're cautious, they're smart people, no matter what some of us think they belong to 19, and maybe they belong to the 21st century, that we don't get into it. The question is how good this balance is. Perhaps over a period of 20 years, the development of the science and art of a country may be that you have 10 extra-quality scientists from natural areas, and only 20 humanistic ones. What would we now deny this proportion by some prominent scientists, who surely have had an impact and deserve to be there? After all, I see in reason, and I hope that they will find in their discussions the right measure for this balance of these segments. What matters to me, and I have a question, concerns the Academy's branch. It is clearly said that the Academy has a branch based in Novi Sad. All right. Now that branch is an organisational part of the Academy. When we pass this law, since we have recently passed the Law on the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, where it clearly states that the AP Vojvodina budget provides financial resources for the work of the Vojvodina Academy of Sciences and Arts, which law will adapt? I think it would be flexible for this jurisdiction law to be corrected after this and that it says here that it will separate the branch of SANU – stand by Vojvodina, but to correct it here. This will resolve those objections that we have made – about the beginnings of the statehood of the Autonomous Province; as far as the Academy of Science is concerned, they have well defined the branch, but remains to be defined in the political sphere in jurisdiction. That's one comment. Perhaps two or three items relating to the legal aspects of this law should be prepared. Article 27 says, "Every department is presented in the presidency with one member, who will, as a rule, be the department's secretary." Perhaps the better formulation they gave to the executive board and to say that the presidency seems to be: the president, the vice president, the secretary general and the department's secretaries. One thing I like is that the Academy deserves, as well as the institutes, which I'll discuss later. In Article 34, it is clear that the Management Board of the Academy Institute has five members. There's no impact from the Ministry at all. The members of the Management Board shall be elected and appointed under the Academy Institute. So the autonomy of SANU, which is clear in this law, is dear to me, and that is where the government has made a much better proposal than some MPs have discussed. They were more politically wise about the Academy, and that's how it's supposed to be done. So much, just some cosmetics, because SANU deserves to be mentioned here a little bit more, but in affirmative light, and we should be proud of her, because it may take some of these young people over the next 30 years to get there, but to get to the Academy takes a lot of years of work and effort. You can't have a lot of quotes in 35 years to be an academic. As far as this crucial law on scientific research is concerned, we have one question here. I took out the old law, it has 119 members. In the alterations and additions, 50 members are radically corrected and we have 13 add-on members. That's 63. I'm interested, I'm not a lawyer, is there any quantification in that right? If more than 50% of the members are corrected, whether it was better, fairer and fairer to say that the previous law is not good and that we are passing a new law, so we get a complete, not a 14th, then a Article 18, so we have to look at Article 13 in the old law. In my opinion, the law that was given this number of interventions should have been given as a new law. That makes a bad impression, the citizens don't see it, but I think the ruling majority's MPs should comment on this, that this isn't coming in the future, especially I'm talking about the seriousness of the Strategy. Mr. Minister, you've read the reasons for the law being passed by an emergency procedure. There's nothing to say, political wisdom. One put the appointment of the president and members of the boards of directors, priority. Second, the appointment of the Director of the Institute. Only in third place is the implementation of the Strategy on Scientific and Technological Development. This isn't small talk. Wasn't it supposed to explain the urgency to be a strategy first, which I read and which was beautifully written, where a bad condition was beautifully recorded, but these are some priority things that give me and the other MPs the right to say that the government and science have influence and that it's politically colored? This is the most important thing. If we go through the details, the composition of the boards of directors, the appointment of directors, it is clear that there is the Ministry and you, as minister, commander, Chief of General Staff for Scientific Research, so this part clearly points to political colour. As it starts with the state giving money, the budget, you want to have an impact there. In each of these scientific, national, research institutes, they're all people who do science, research. In each of these institutes, everyone knows not only how good and strong researchers are, how many papers were published and quoted, but what kind of people, personalities, organizers are. Therefore, this should be left to them. They all know each other and maybe they should give one autonomy to the scientific institutions of choice, because they're all qualified people, who know the areas they work for. If one MP, I don't know which one, said that science was freed from discipline, quote his words from before the break, well, prove that science was freed from discipline. When it comes to discipline, I'd like it to be freed from political disciplines. Just to comment, not to take time on my colleagues, the law of innovation. That's where the minister was supposed to come in another way, I don't know, maybe I'm, like, this limited, uh, professorly, I don't understand these things. In both the development and production centre, the innovation centre, the business-technological centre and the scientific and technological park, there are the same sentences everywhere – the minister prescribes conditions regarding equipment, space, staff, professional capacities. It's a lab, it's a study, it needs to be resolved in another way, not just in this law. When I look at the Law of Education, it gives the impression that you can't do all that, and you won't do a good job. Maybe you will, but you should have... I forgot, at the Technology Transfer Promotion Centre, and in the Science Research Law you have the Technology Transfer Centre, it's all in detail, and at the Technology Transfer Centre, through Article 25a, you just described it and left it without any detailed explanations. Is he less important than this? I don't think so. I'd have a lot more to say, but thank you, because I took a minute and a half of one of my colleagues from my parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36123	It's been used 17 minutes since the MP's group's time. The word is a folk letter from Jelena Travar-Miljević, and after it, the folk MP Svetlana Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36124	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Presidency, Your Honor, I'd like to take some time to discuss the draft code of geographical origin, which has hardly been mentioned today. At the very beginning, I would say that the G17 Group of MPs will support the bill, as well as the set of all the laws that are on the agenda today. Geographical designations of origin shall include products whose production is in a given geographical area and whose properties and quality are defined by a geographical environment, which includes natural and human factors. These properties can only be created thanks to natural factors such as land, climate, water and other, or thanks to the way or process of production that is related to this geographical area. The presence of natural factors is particularly important in agricultural products, where properties of land, water and climate conditions can have great importance for the quality of a particular product. For some products, there is a decisive role in a certain way of production in a perfectly defined area, although in the largest number of products these two factors are intertwined and together give this particular property to a particular product. Geographical designations of origin have special meaning for less developed countries, as much of their exports make up natural food and agricultural products and products from domestic work and services. The value of the geographical indication of origin rests on the awareness and conviction of consumers that products are marked by a geographical indication of origin products of special quality and quality. Such products enjoy certain advantages on the market, in relation to the type of products which do not have such a label. This affects increased demand and has a significant economic impact. Therefore, the geographical indication can be a powerful tool for economic propaganda, as it informs consumers of the origin of goods and quality. The proposal for this law provides for a way of obtaining and legal protection of the geographical indication, and geographical indications are the name of origin and geographical indication. The designations of geographical origin shall be used to mark natural agricultural, food and industrial products, domestic goods and services. The name of origin is the geographical name of the country, region or locality. The term geographical indication, as well as traditional or historical name, is defined. The proposal for this law also defines the protection procedure, the application procedure for the recognition of the geographical indication, the application procedure for the recognition of the status of authorised user, the application for recognition of the status of authorised user, the changes relating to authorised users, the content and scope of the rights of authorised users, the advertising of zero solutions to the recognition of the geographical indication, or the recognition of the status of authorised user, the termination of the geographical indication, the termination of the status of authorised user, the withdrawal of the status of authorised user, the designation of geographical origin, civil protection, etc. I believe that the adoption of this bill will contribute to the greatest number of products being marked geographically and thus to better passability and market sales. In the Institute of Intellectual Property, unfortunately, so far we have only 52 products, i.e. registered geographical indications of domestic origin. I will give you information that in Italy products with a geographical indication achieve annual turnover, on average, 7.5 to 8 billion euros, while the number of workers employed in the sector is around 300,000 people. Research within the EU has shown that a large number of consumers have been identified precisely for products bearing geographical indications. It has been found that 43% of consumers are willing to give up to 10% higher prices for food of geographical origin, while close to 10% is willing to spend more than 20% on products of that kind. I would remind myself that between the Republic of Serbia and the Swiss Confederation a Memorandum of Understanding was signed, which should allow Serbia to improve the system of protection of geographical indications for products on the foreign market. I think that the adequate application of this law, with the support, information and involvement of citizens, can lead to an increase in the number of products with geographical indications, and thus to an increase in the number of entrepreneurs and employees. I see a special opportunity for the rural environments of our country, especially when it comes to agricultural and food products, as well as products of domestic work and services, because the system of protection of these products provides their commercialisation and leads to the economic progress of these areas. I think such products can find their place on the EU market, even wider. I am absolutely sure that only after the adoption of this law will we expect a lot of work and a number of activities that will bring our citizens and producers closer to all the necessary procedures for the adoption of the geographical indication. I would remind all of us that, no matter how much we deal with this topic, sometimes we are not familiar with all the products that should bear a geographical designation, so I think we need to be together and support all the producers, to place as best as possible our products. I thank you again and will point out that the G17 Group will support the proposed laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36125	Five minutes and 45 seconds have been used since the Parliament's group's time. The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36126	Thank you, Vice President. Dear People's MPs, I would like to take advantage of what my colleague was saying about this law to comment on a little bit of what was said this morning, since it was about various geographical indications. As for the ivar, there was a lot of accuracy in what one MP said this morning, but here's the facts. First, ajvar is not protected by stamping, neither in the EU, nor in any of the 75 member states of the Madrid Agreement on International Trade Protection. It's not true that anyone in the world today has a monopoly on the word "Ajvar." What's true is that there were attempts to register, two of them. It's one of our own, by the way. A certain Radoje Micic, who lives in Spain, tried to register ajvar, but was rejected in 2008. Interestingly, it was said this morning, it is true that Slovenians, more specifically, "Merkator" managed to register ajvar in Germany. He received protection on December 10th 1996, but the stamp was annulled in July 1998. No one has a monopoly on ajvar. As far as plums are concerned, plums are protected in Serbia, Bosnia, Croatia, Macedonia, Slovenia, Austria, the Benelux countries and Italy. However, no one in that domain can use plums as an indication of the product type, so there is no monopoly either. When we talk about the protection of geographical origin, we're talking about the 50th grade, it's so much, it's probably going to be combined with the effective geographical definition of the city and the product. It is hard to imagine that we will suddenly be able to register the kajamak, ajvar, a plum and that Serbia has essentially a monopoly. I'd love to, we'd all love to, but given what production is in other countries, which is already registered, it's much more realistic to have these two aspects, geographically, the region of the country, or the city or municipalities, plus the product. Or what we managed to do in the SAA negotiations, it's to reserve a number of names, so the EU knows that some things are coming from here. So much, a few precision. As my colleague said, here's an interesting moment where we see a traditional brand of agriculture. Intellectual property is a brand that has indeed experienced a rise in the past two years, and this esteemed home has recently passed another set of laws. On two occasions, I mean, there were laws, so now we're not far from bringing our legal framework to one optimum. Here, here's science, because it's certain that among those plums, all these ivars and caymacks we're going to have to have some specific provisions, i.e. The specifics of our products, in order to really deal with international competition. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36127	The word has a folk MP, Svetlana Stojanovic. After her, MP Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36128	Dear People's MPs, Mr. Minister, in the proposal for a SANU law, in a member who defines the subject of her work, it is stated that the Academy is working on creating a dictionary. There's no language in which the Academy's dictionary works. SANU has been publishing its dictionary for decades. It reached 17th volume, to the letter "O" and the dictionary is called "The Dictionary of Serbian Croatian Literature and People's Language". As we know very well, Yugoslavia is gone. There are independent republics – Croatia, Montenegro, BiH, etc. Since the beginning of work on the Academy's dictionary to this day, the former Yugoslav republic, now independent states, have clearly been defined for the names of their languages. Croatia calls its language Croatian, not more Serbian, or the western version of Serbian, as it was also called. Montenegro calls its language Montenegrin. In BiH, Bosniaks are also spoken. Only SANU, unless this member of the law is changed, would continue to publish a Serbian-Croatian dictionary. The question of language can be viewed from two angles – linguistic and political. From a linguistic point of view, language, lexic, morphological, syntaxic, etc., they should differ in a certain percentage in order to be considered different rather than one language. Politically observed, international standards give every nation the right to call their language by its ethnicity, or whatever it finds appropriate. So, for example, the English and Americans don't mind calling their language English. Spanish is called Spanish in all the countries in which it is spoken. Linguistic, the same language in the Netherlands is called Dutch, in Belgium Flemish, etc. Personally, we can think and think that Serbian, Croatian and Montenegrin are the same language, but we will rely only on this international right to call our language by our ethnicity. The renaming of the Academy's dictionary in "The Dictionary of Serbian Literature and People's Language" would represent a significant legal framework for our neglected Serbianism. Apart from the legal framework, Serbs need many more, among other things, and material conditions for smooth work. The DSS has submitted an amendment suggesting that the Academy's dictionary be further published under the term 'The Dictionary of Serbian Literature and People's Language'. This part of the people's language, too, should not be taken lightly. The preservation of the national language means the preservation of dialects, localisms, etc. The Serbian language is a rich language unless it is neglected and defiled in its application and lexiography. In his opening statement, the minister mentioned, by the way, strengthening the Serbian language as part of our identity. I hope that means that the language we speak consistently, not only in the Constitution, we will call it what it deserves - a Serbian language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36129	Thank you. The word is Mr. Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36130	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, from this group of very interesting legal proposals in front of this high house today, I chose to talk about the law on geographical indications. When we talk about geographical indications, besides the food industry and domestic labor, we all think about agriculture and agricultural products. If we give a brief assessment of the current situation, it is that our country's huge potentials are in that sense, but that these huge potentials are not being used so far, and I believe that we will all agree with that assessment. First of all, they are not used, if we are talking about agriculture, I think it is the most interesting in this area, because we still do not have access to these pre-accession EU funds, which is an unsatisfactory agrarian budget, which, regardless of a number of positive measures in terms of incentives by the Ministry of Agriculture, subsidies, etc., is still not satisfactory. Monopolies, regardless of the adoption of a series of anti-monopolis laws, still exist. Such as, with internal political weaknesses, with the weaknesses of the institutions, left to itself, agriculture remains our biggest exporter. This law regulates the procedure for the protection of domestic products of geographical origin, for their competitiveness on the European and we can say on the world market. This is an extraordinary prerequisite and a necessary condition without which we cannot, so that we can co-operate with both the EU and the world community, but also with the World Trade Organisation, during the implementation of the SAA. That's all good. When I was talking about potentials, we from the SPO have always stressed that they are healthy food, healthy water, energy, knowledge, with the remarkable geographical personality of our country, along with one Shumadi, Dragačevo, Podunavlje, Pomoravlje, western and eastern Serbia, a wide range of products that can be protected here, as regards geographical origin, from raspberries, various fruits, various products. I'm not going to advertise today, but just one piece of information that will be interesting. One private from Topola makes extraordinary wines, I think it exports maybe 90 percent of the total production, and it's one of the largest wine producers in our country. And where wine is best, and to mention France, everyone is looking for the products of that producer from Topola. This proves much, proves that in difficult conditions too, entrepreneurs can be competitive on the domestic market. But most of our agricultural producers are looking and expecting state aid in this regard. When we talk about the situation of farmers in EU countries, I think that we are not enough, I mean the ruling majority, explained to the citizens of Serbia, and perhaps even took enough energy to see what we are promoting, both for geographical origin and for the position of agriculture and its potential, in practice. The request to revive Serbian villages, by getting European subsidies from the country, or by eliminating the quality of life between the village and the city, cannot be defined, as we hear daily in the political jargon of some who are against the EU, that the conspiracy is a Vatican and European Serb enemy. The SPO believes that this is the only way to stop the nation's biological death and to make Serbian agriculture one of the supporters in a time when there is little youth in the country, in a time when farmers work with machines and tractors between 25 and 30 years old and in which, in addition to large centralised, we are threatened with the death of the village. That is why the SPO, since this is one of the better laws that has been in front of parliament lately, will vote with both hands for this legal solution. All these obstacles that I've been talking about, both political and other nature, since we're part of the ruling majority, since we've accepted all the principles on which this government is formed, we're just asking that they be fully implemented in practice and we think they're going to give good results soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36131	Six minutes have been used since the Parliament Group's time. The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36132	This is one of the rare occasions when I take part in the discussion without my intention. I asked my colleagues to leave me for a few minutes, because the presentation of Bozidar Djelic, the Minister of Resorship, inspired me. I must admit that for the first time I listened with full attention to the entire opening presentation, and I think that is what Mr Milos Nedeljkovic from the Faculty of Engineering commits to, who personally contributed to science and I am pleased to have him on the team. You won't mind me, I'd like to make my impressions on how much your verbal efforts are for science, scientific research, for promoting patents and maintaining them, something that is in practice or not happening. While you say, we're introducing a system that will promote innovation, knowledge and science, I can't help but think of contributions from television, or calls where gifted children can't travel to competitions, and then there are some donors, various associations, anonymous donors or some media houses, which then collect points on that donor. I wonder – isn't that the job of the state? When you say that the ideas of promising technology should be financed, because that capital and risk cannot be tolerated by others, I will translate it in Serbian, there are those who are not ready to invest and wait for the long term for that science to return to investment. Whose business it is, above all, rather than a state, which, in addition to financing the security of the border, life, contracts, assets and people, must also care for our long-term development. I also support the idea when you say – at least 50% of the income from the commercialisation of patents or achievements should belong to the inventor, but there must be benefits and an institution that financed the work or provided conditions for that inventor. Do you know, Mr. Minister, how many people work without their patents, their creative ideas and works being signed by someone else and that they don't have the right to collect part of their hard work, their talent, but they can't even say that they did it? Or are we going to talk about it when the mobing is the topic of the debate? Will we ever be able to promote science to some real extent if we don't promote scientists as an example of reputation, if we don't teach people to distinguish reputation from popularity? Popular can be the one who does negative things, unfortunately. But the reputation is obtained by doing good deeds and remains to live even after the death of the one whose reputation we speak of. Why isn't the scientist appreciated today? There's no conditions to work. Some even made fires and stakes of their diplomas in Kragujevac. You and I both know, and we're talking about respecting science. Did today’s collapse of wealth become a fundamental activity in the world? How much each of us individually supported this idea? If today the value of an individual is measured by the attribute of a billionaire, so we have the lists of "Forbs", "Blic's" powerful and influential, measured in money, the rate of development of a country is also measured in money, GDP per capita. But these are not the reasons why the scientist is less respected today, because some measure of value must be established as comparable and generally accepted. The problem from America to this Serbia is that each one of these countries is wrongly promoting value, by saying that it appreciates science, and in fact, schools financially called "magnets," the stock market, to use the word in that Serbian sense, not speculation, but speculants, in that negative sense. Even in America, it is not at the expense of those who work in charities, those who do science, but those who get jobs on Wall Street, and even today, when balloons are blown out and when there are no more those "gold parachutes" that allow big and rich people to, when they leave the banks where they cheated, and on the value of actions, in audit reports, never touch the country. We all appreciate that science needs to improve our lives, make it easier, make it more efficient, cheaper. Admit it, Mr. Djelic, you're a world man, are you in a time of transnational companies, who claim to take away part of the state's jurisdiction, because they edit taxes, delete borders, in their interest edit taxes and delete borders, we have material powers, and we have scientific and human potentials, to create the institutes we're talking about here? Could we have found a different bond for globalisation that would have given us advantages? Or, to translate, can anyone tell me how much the Serbian Government has invested in Microsoft projects today, or Microsoft, I don't know how to read it, and ours, not in a portable sense, our own, but literally our guys, IT experts in these houses are working on developing these and such projects? I'm telling you that for a quarter of that amount, because I know, about how much it's invested, there's a team of 16 guys who are willing to network the entire e-mail government, the electronic government, and all of these systems in which you have the next case. One-step company registration. A guy went to the APR to register a partner shop and when they got to the moment that the PIB signed up, for a physical person or a partner, the PIB was the home number of citizens, not a beautiful, young, ambitious girl on the counter, not even the head of the service, not even the highest officials knew that they had what would be the PIB and the oral actions of the legal person, did one of the four birth numbers, or any new PIB? In the application of science and technology, we need to understand that they do not exist for themselves but because of us, to contribute to democracy, employment and a happier life. I'm not sure that's what you handled, but thank you for inspiring me to speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36133	Thank you, Mrs. Tabakovic. The word has a minister, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36134	Thank you, Mrs. Tabakovic. You inspired me to answer you because you touched several important topics. If we look at the way science and technology evolved, we come up with a rather dangerous, or encouraging finding, depends. It's that at the moment when information travels almost free, gaugely, we have a big problem maintaining mediocre capacity. In other words, at a time when software can be downloaded from the global network, when there is a way to charge it fairly safely, the big problem is that I can have a role, since you talked about it, is our software crews. In individual projects, it is true that we must try to work wherever possible, and our capacities. If we look at the priorities that we have here and which are drawn in the Strategy, it is that the upcoming cycle of investment in both physical and immaterial infrastructure will be a momentum for the development of our development capacities. Really, we wouldn't do a state-owned job if we didn't use this money, which our citizens often owe themselves to, or finance from our budget, not to do such a thing. On the other hand, it should be noted that behind such solutions is the great capacity of these large software companies, which can, because they amortize their research of huge crafts and a large number of clients, make an additional leap, technological innovation, where our forces would not be enough, not because our boys and girls are less smart, but because there are fewer of them and because we are starting from one point that is much less favourable. Of course, globalisation and the fact that this world, as one American famous scientist has said, is to some extent flat now, traveling very quickly from one place to another, when you can get something directly, which is amortized on such a basis, the question is – what can those with medium size be? I would take an example in the domain of information and telecommunications technologies, which may indicate what might be one of the positive effects of this strategy. It's illusory to think that on our soil we'll surprise one Microsoft or one Google. It's not impossible, but it's very unlikely. Probably, we wouldn't do a good thing for our citizens if we threw all our available, limited resources at one such project. By the way, for 15 years now, Europe has been trying to find a solution for these two companies mentioned. Not to say how many billion euros have already been spent making one European Internet browser, so far without any results. That's what I'm talking about. What's the solution? Inside information technologies, there is more than just so-called. The package software, that's the software that's sold in the packages, there's a series of other specific developments in the domain of information. This morning I was talking about one aspect, they're so-called. control systems, or in English "embed systems". It is a specific software that connects and enables complex production systems to function, or a security system. We have a few dozen companies here. There's a gauge that's a little over a dozen of them, but there's capacity, an estimate, from 400 to 500 software engineers. When you see the efforts made by one China, the vast China, to better place itself on that market, you see what ours see, that there is a significant margin in that specific software. It is possible that each time a specific problem is solved for a specific client. There is no longer so much importance in being the largest and having billions of global investment, which is subsequently amortised on large shows and opening up the possibility in this domain for the positions of our businesses. I think the Strategy on this specific question has given, let me say, great results, because we asked those who deal with this software – what do you need to go on? Why aren't you present enough in the region? Why aren't you in Algeria and other markets where such demand exists? The answer was that they had not had one control room so far, as it is already called, where it is possible to carry out all forms of control in one controlled way and get a certificate for that system, which, to remind you, manages processes that can become very dangerous if they get out of control, and to the secretary that quality is confirmed. We have found that there is an identical project in VTI that has never been completed, and in which it is invested – a technical operating centre in Vojsca, significant funds. The conclusion was not very difficult, and it will serve a part of these European Investment Bank funds, to equip one such laboratory, and that all companies, under very acceptable conditions, will receive one such certification that will allow them to appear on the international market. I'm sorry I made it a little longer, but, basically, this is a strategy. They come from having resources, like you said. We respect this harsh reality that some have already taken some positions and that globalisation can mean the danger of taking away our most precious human resources. We're looking everywhere that's possible, and it's possible, because there's a lot of opportunity to find solutions to all that. I agree with what you said about the affirmation of scientists, and that's why more is to form a Center for the Promotion of Science. In the last year we've been trying to make every time someone in our scientific community makes a move, makes a result, that's what our entire nation finds out. Young Cubrovic, who is 24, who has just started his PhD in Liden, managed in the first year of his doctorate to be the leading author of an extremely complex theme "Superstruna", in the world's most prestigious magazine "Sins". It was in all the means of public information. Young Ivana Pesic, our young scientist, received the prestigious UNESCO 'Lareal' award, which is given every year by five already known scientists, because it is for scientists, and 15, i.e. Three for each continent, young promising scientists. For the first time in 20 years of this prize's history, one of our Nislijka has won one such prize. Also, Mirko Djordjevic, in international competition last year, was the winner of the 'Fama Lab', which is the most famous competition in popularising science in England We are trying, but it can't be just one ministry. That is why there is such institutionalization, that it allows successes, which are not only monetary, but are also international, something that is very important to our community, to be recognized and known. That's it. If there's any more inspiration, I'm ready to respond, with the whole crew. It is certain that globalisation is a great challenge; for those who do not know how to play it, it can also damage fewer nations. For those of you who know how to take advantage of what it opens, it can be an incredible acceleration of the development of society, which we couldn't do alone if we weren't connected to those who have such investments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36135	Thank you. If I understand correctly, Mrs Tabakovic, the minister commended you and agreed with your presentation and opinion, but I will give you my word to hear, I am very interested in your replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36136	Your interpretation, Mr. Novakovic, of the request for a replica, is not my intention to make you angry, but I don't need a praise, I'm a proven person, I'm just saying that it doesn't give me a guarantee, not to me, citizens, the existence of a strategy of scientific development, as well as a centre that is founded, because I take the pandan of the Export Strategy and the SIEPU that promotes exports, costs and results, and I can't argue that this results. I have a concrete remark. You're talking about who's going to commercialize, or charge for patent commercialization. Do you remember, Mr. Djelic, that we brought the state of the patents into that so-called. The state of the technique, the introduction of expensive taxes, over 130,000 dinars for five years maintenance, so whoever's late to pay, even 50% more expensive. People don't have the money to maintain that patent status as their property and become property of everyone. It's not like Seneca used to say, Epicur said – it doesn't matter who said it first anymore, he told everyone. It's not that. This is about inventions. When you made the law to open your patents and expose them to the public like this, you didn't receive donations to equip the technical, for example, the Ministry of Labour, so to introduce a precise computer record of the unemployed in this country. So I can't believe the word, mostly, I believe in results, and in that sense my remark, you'll admit it, Mr. Novakovic, is completely in place. I thank you for your right to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36137	Thank you very much. You didn't piss me off, of course, that's pretty hard. The word is Mr. Munir Poturak. Here you go, Mr. Poturak.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36138	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, representatives of the government, fellow MPs, and I am inspired by Mr. Djelic's speech and by Professor Micunovic. What's most important of all is that this inspiration is not only ours, here, but also encouragement and motivation for all our younger colleagues who want to practice science. This is a message from our MPs that they have maximum support, that they have an open path so that they can deal with what creates much greater value. If it is an opportunity to talk about people who have contributed to Serbia's development faster, we have a very wide list of young people who have taken a good message and good knowledge somewhere around the world. We certainly have people with names both in Volvo and Nokia, we have people who gained knowledge outside, so they came to Serbia, that Serbian citizens benefit from it. The best example is Mr. Stojkovic's example in Leskovec, the Centre for Insemination, because the centre has reborn many families, brought joy into houses and gave hope to many mothers. If we look at a whole bunch of laws that are here today and the next day, if I were in any political party, and I was a member of the Sandzak Democratic Party within the DS, these laws would personally have my support from me and my colleagues. For the first time, I don't know how many years ago, they give a tremendously good support and hope to people who want to focus and focus on science. A long time ago there was no money directed to equip scientific institutions, a long time ago there was not so much money directed towards solving and housing problems for people who wanted to deal with science. Maybe this 200 million isn't enough, but it's the first step, and all those smaller or bigger steps will encourage our people to move in that direction and to fertilize that knowledge far more than we're investing in. It is sometimes said in a joke that Serbia has given a much larger financial donation to Sweden, because about 163 doctors in Sweden are currently, and each doctor's education costs about a million dollars. They're not just in Sweden, they're our people, they're all over the world. Not to mention the entire beauty of the benefits we've had, and I wanted to focus on the law on the geographical origin of our products. All our people, anywhere in the world, bear the designation of geographical origin. And the athletes took both the knowledge and the geographical designation. These young men of ours have taken and carried with them the designation of geographical origin. We MPs who came from the interior here carry both our good and bad qualities and habits, and I honestly think that all 250 of us bear good intentions to make life better for the citizens of Serbia, like this and similar laws that we have passed. If we were to make a Swedish table in this assembly, or a sofre, and all of us who came from the side would take what's best from our neighborhoods, and invite our Belgrade citizens to bring something from where they came from in Belgrade, there would be shadow cheese on that table, and German prosciuttos, and pleasure prosciuttos, and shades, sheep's hams, Kosovo's black and Banatian risling, perfect cheese and homolic honey, the esquire, and all that would represent what is most important to us, for Serbia. This multiethnicity and this multiculturality is what Serbia, as a brand, could and could present both now and in the past and in the future. If it's an opportunity to tell those who want to direct their money to focus on this kind of product, there's multiple benefits. Their products, products of this special origin, geographical origin, first of all, withdraw the loyalty of customers, i.e. consumer. People relate to such products by feeling and returning to space and time where they once lived or loved to be, at times when they were in the family circle and in the circle of their friends. Local self-government, regions should focus on such products by common forces and financial means, such as affirmation and areas and places where products and people who create them originate. In this way, animal race is preserved, thus preserving plant origin, and they all make some ingredient in these products. If ever something has been done for our citizens, these laws and this way of legal protection of that knowledge accumulated through products placed on the market. For all the reasons that I have mentioned, from those laws that we have passed in the area of agriculture, we have protected them in procedures, to make it useful and healthy for our citizens, so that it can be protected both in Serbia and somewhere in the EU, in the case of institutions, this product opens the door to this country and to all of us, without a visa, that any product can travel without a problem. Thank you, in any case, this is something that opens up a faster path towards Europe, according to European standards.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36139	The time of the Progressive Group of MPs has been used by Serbia. Given that certain agreements have occurred in the meantime, in order to respect the order of the Rules of Procedure, that speakers are being replaced according to applications for and against, I will read which order we are going in. Now she has the word of Mrs. Donka Banović, so Mr. Pavel Marchok, Mr. Nikola Žutić, Ms. Natasa Vukkovic, then we move on. Thank you for understanding. The word is Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36140	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. How do you know I'll be against it, so you made a schedule like that? I only have to talk about one law, because within this point of the agenda, a lot of very serious laws are united, so I don't have time to look back at the others, but I'd like to say a few words about the draft law on geographical indications. We have so far had a law that regulated the area quite well, but that's the 2006 Law, from a period when there was still a state community. I've been comparing this old law to this proposal, and it seems like a lot of it's been done quite similarly. It could be said that around 70% of this new proposal has been taken over from that old, valid one, and that these 30% changes where this law is in line with EU directives and with the regulations of the World Trade Organisation. Because of the citizens, I think we've all read this law here, to explain some things. The designation of geographical origin marks the product produced in a given geographical area, so that product has some unique properties and qualities, which are just conditioned in that geographical area. The quality or properties of this product are affected by human factor, but it also affects natural factor. So quality or type of land, climate, water etc. When it comes to the human factor, then there are certain specific processes or ways of producing or creating a product. What can be marked by a geographical indication? These can be natural products, agricultural and food products, industrial products, domestic goods and services. Although, let's say, when the minister speaks, I'd like him to illustrate to us what services they might have as a trademark of protected origin. The protection system is of great importance to less developed countries, because, in principle, these countries base a large part of their exports on export products of natural and agricultural origin. What is the advantage of a product bearing a trademark of protected geographical origin? There's also psychological advantages. In addition to the fact that we know in these areas that some products are quality and tasty, this marking is also some kind of guarantee that the quality of this product is regularly monitored and that it, it seems to me, is written in the Bill every six months or every year to verify and restore the certificate. It's another good side of this bill, which is a quality monitoring in several members well solved. All this would be wonderful and wonderful if the state and government of Serbia had a more serious attitude towards certain branches of the economy, such as agriculture. The subsidies for agriculture have been reduced. Every day we can read and see on TV that manufacturers give up milk, meat, vegetables, fruit. So there's a big problem. If something doesn't change, we can get into a situation where we have a fantastic law that we can borrow certain products, agricultural products, but we won't have products. We'll have the law, but we won't have anything to protect it with. The minister mentioned it in his display of the pyrotic helmet. A colleague, Munir Poturak, forgot to mention that this Swedish table in the Assembly would contain a lot of products from the Pyrot region and products that, thanks to the vicinity of the Old Mountain, would be produced in the area. So, the pyrotic helmet, or the old mountain, then, is known so-called An old mountain lamb, lamb meat, a product that is not produced anywhere else in Serbia or the world, that is so called. Iron sausage, vurda, and products of young sheep's milk, etc. All of these are products that, at least to people living in the area, are known as products with good qualities and good quality. None of these products have been protected so far. As far as I know, the pyrotic carpet is protected. There may be some procedures going on, but that doesn't change what I'm saying. I see the minister is watching, perhaps you can deny me, perhaps in the meantime some product is geographically and protected. But I don't know if you know that the milkman in Pirote doesn't work, the milkman in Dimitrovgrad and certain cooperatives don't work. I just don't even know who's making that hat anymore. As you know, you can't even see that product anywhere, for example in bigger cities, so you can buy it. The pyrotic carpet is protected, however, it was not helpful when it comes to the productivity of a pair of factories produced by pyrotic carpets. So it's not manufactured. If not manufactured, there is no demand for that product. It's such a quality and fantastic product, but it's not done marketingly properly, it's not pronounced. We can go back to the story that in some companies or factories, maybe in that, they can make a fantastic product, but they're not frames and they need help to place that product. You in major cities can buy carpets from all possible Asian, African, etc. State, but you can't find a pyrotic carpet. When it comes to barbecue meat from Leskovec, they've been through the full procedure for two years, they have a mark and a certificate, as can be called, but the exports of that meat have been completely stopped lately, and I'm not talking about that there are some slaughterhouses that don't have any papers. We have one product in Serbia that is very unique and that is our brand, which is the government, which is a unique product, a unique brand. At the head of that government is a gentleman who looks like Santa Claus, but this Santa doesn't give gifts, he kind of just takes gifts. The government has declared itself socially responsible, promising 200,000 new jobs. In two years, she was able to close 200,000 jobs. The government that said it would raise the standard of living for citizens, and then it froze both salaries and pensions, until when - we don't know. It is the government in which one minister spends 11m euros unintendedly, on the count and on the spraying of mosquitoes and ticks, and is expected to file a misapplication against him. One more thing, it is a government that has very often launched a media hack and campaign against its own parliament, i.e. against its own assembly. The government forgets that the members of this assembly choose her, that she is responsible for this body, that, mostly, all reports of her work here are submitted and that she could not function without this assembly. So you can see that we have a unique brand -- the Serbian government; I think nobody has one in Europe right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36141	Thank you. I would agree that the Serbian government, as a sign of geographical origin, has no one. Now it's clear why you're against it. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36142	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm not sure the lady is against the law, but maybe around these elements. The Institute of Intellectual Property has registered 53 geographical indications at this time and I confirm that the pyrotic carpet under registration number 37 has been registered, as has been Sirogy registered, and I also confirm that the wooded grilled meat for burgers and chivalry has been registered. The pyrotic helmet is still unregistered. The Serbian plum is still unregistered. The golden cheese is still unregistered and, as many will surprise, even the joyous cream has not yet been registered, but that is, including the shadow cheese, which the MP spoke of, and it has not yet been registered. When I say 50, it's going to be that we're closer to the number of possible geographical indications. To your question is it possible to register one favor, yes, it is possible. The services that are currently registered are of the Banja type – Velness, i.e. recreation and health combined, where you have both therapy and entertainment. It's possible to register. A number of countries managed to do that. As we can see, this is primarily about food products and certain craft products. Yeah, the problem is that even today, pyrotic carpets are almost gone. I tried to see if we could make gifts for some foreign officials when they came, but at this point it's not possible and the first step is to have one of these laws. The second is to prepare in the Ministry of Agriculture, in accordance with this 2006 European Directive, something that it predicted, these were their various deadlines now in force, on 1 May 2010. Starting on 1 May 2010, in order to apply this law and to be able to protect these geographical indications at the level of Europe and the world, we will have to work in accordance with this European standard, which bears the name N 45011, and that is exactly how much it is given and how it is maintained. That's what we've been talking about. The most important thing is to prepare well, for one mistake can undo a thousand efforts. What's important is that under the cap of a geographical origin it's possible to have dozens, hundreds, thousands of producers who don't have to make individual marketing. For example, in Italy, which has probably gone the farthest, it is that those who produce join their own funds, well, instead of everyone having their marketing and their promotion, they do it together and it is incomparably stronger. It shows that Serbia can have just such a farm, which is not an extensive type, which is not an industrial type, which is not a genetically modified type, but a natural one, but a property of our country. As for the price, the price exists because in the last 10-15 years food is increasingly valued, not in the entire segment, but in that most profitable segment of consumers in Europe. There's 500 million of them. It is the largest and richest market in the world, so it has evolved over time, both in Europe and in America, specific distribution and groups of shops that are exclusively supplied with such products. On the other hand, we realize that in large chains, and it does spread, for those who have the opportunity to visit them, I do, always try to find our products; of course there are not enough of them yet, but it is evident that they are assorted and space given so-called. bio-products or products with a geographical indication are becoming larger and larger. This segment is willing to pay an average of up to 20% more for this product, and for us, considering the average, small size of our properties, the way our agriculture is structured, one such approach is something that is very promising. We're going to try, with our colleagues from the Bureau, to protect all the tables, as many as are now in the process, and to work very quickly on it with our colleagues from agriculture, to have some protected and, as you yourself said, established geographical laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36143	Thank you. Mr. Pavel Marchok has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36144	Dear Chairman, respected ministers, representatives of the ministry, fellow MPs, respected citizens, firstly, Mr. Minister, I would like to congratulate you on your biggest investment in science in the history of Serbia, on 4 March, when you signed, together with Minister Diana Dragutinovic, an investment of 200m euros, together with the EIB. I think it's one turning point, when Serbian science will take a stronger pace, in another direction, for the benefit of all of us, the citizens of Serbia and, I believe, of all humanity. I wanted to look into two laws, a law on scientific research and a code on geographical indications. A lot's been said today. As regards the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Scientific Action, it should be said that these amendments will allow the implementation of strategic and national priorities in the domain of science and technology. The application of this law will enable the rationalisation of a network of research organisations, close cooperation between institutes and colleges, which is important, partnership with society, through popularisation of science, partnership with economy, partnership with diaspora, through joint projects, and partnership with international organisations, through the development of programmes, also, partnership with other ministries in the realisation of capital projects of strategic importance. The objectives achieved by the adoption of this law are to define priority, basic, development and applied scientific and research programmes, to apply research results, to connect closer to higher education institutions, to improve the efficiency of alllocation and use of all scientific and development resources, to more efficient distribution of resources for science, to improve and apply technology as a result of their own development. A lot's been said today. I'd like to once again praise what's new. Here is the Centre for the Popularization of Science, which is very important for new, young scientists, for generations to come, and should be said, in this day, when the Public Service of a dozen times less programs devotes science and technological development than in the 1990s, that the necessity of such a center is beyond necessary. The law is also needed to apply the Scientific Technological Development Strategy of the Republic of Serbia from 2010 to 2015, brought by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on 11 February. Congratulations on this, too. I would like to mention the national priorities highlighted in this strategy. This is based on biomedicine, new materials and nano-science, then on environmental protection, energy and energy efficiency, agriculture and food, information and communication technologies and improving the decision-making and validation of national identity. It should be said that these investments in science are very necessary today and, knowing that investments in natural and technical science are increasing in every crisis, it should be said that this is the right step. Knowing that the Faculty of Electrical Engineering was once 15th in the world, I believe this is one step back to those positions that once Serbian science held in world terms. Finally, I would say that, in addition to the Strategy, the Agreement on Investment in Science and Technological Development, which was signed yesterday, March 4th, and this law gives us some framework and I hope that, after these three points of development, tomorrow, as a product of all this, will also appear in our new Tesla, new Milankovics and will make a great contribution to science, both in Serbia and worldwide.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36145	The word is Mr. Nikola Žutić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36146	Gentlemen, Mr. Minister and gentlemen of the Ministry, I will first discuss the bill on the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts. As a historian employed at the Institute of Contemporary History, I will start with the formulation of the historical article 1, which is modest by the data and, chronologically speaking, with an illogical title. With my amendment, I have rephrased this article, which I will discuss more extensively when considering the amendments to the same article. Historically, during the 19th and 20th centuries, the Serbian Academy was a hostage to ideology and politics. In the late 19th century, at the Academy, work strengthens foreign, anti-Serbian ideological influences. For example, at the end of the 19th century, the Academy was influenced by austrophy's 'progress', whose cabinet tradition continues today by an informal group of citizens in this House. Serbian science was under strong Austrian influence at the time, so scientists, under the rule of austrophy Milan Obrenovic, were forced to write on the orders of the Austrian historical school of counterfeits, which at that time fought against the so-called. Serbian romantics, and from the position at the time of popular so-called critical historical positiveism. What she was like back then. A critical school, which curbed the work of Serbian so-called "Serbs". Romantic in history, or Serbian traditionalists? The truth is imposed on documentary forgeries. Namely, the sacred Roman Catholic-Austrian-vatikane pseudoarhivical documentary lies created a virtual history of Balkan spaces and the history of new national identities, e.g. The Bosniaks, through Orthodox Christian bokumilas, as well as the new Roman Catholic religious nation of Croats in Serbian spaces. It is known that serious historians, like the French Michelle and Michels, pointed out the hidden Austrian-vatikanic history, so the history of the Hamburgers, according to Michels, coronated inquisitors, did not give enough information to get to know each other fully. So the Austrian positiveists created counterfeit books, and so on. critical history of documentary counterfeits. Unfortunately, then-Serbian academics have in some cases bought such Vienna forgeries. Those candidates for calling academics who opposed such natural, religious historical truths have never succeeded in their efforts. A characteristic case is a Serb from Boka Kotorska Rista Kovacic, otherwise a member of the Serbian Student Society, who, due to his serious scientific research, never became a member of the Serbian Royal Academy, which at the time was dominated by austrophilic "progressors". His exact scientific research didn't like the academics back then. Namely, in September 1884, in the Italian province of Moliza, where the colony lived in front of the Turkish refugees of the Smederjev Serbs, Kovacic was worth exploring as a member of the Serb-leaded society. He published the results of his archival and library research, as well as research using today's modern "apologetics" method in the 1885 Serbian Student Society Glasnik. The Serbian-trained society had previously pledged material support to help preserve and develop Serbian national consciousness in the province of Naples. In 1886, the Serbian Royal Academy was founded, while the Society, for several more years, was attached to the Academy only in 1892. However, only eight members of the Society became academics, including Risto Kovacic, and the president of the Jovanovic Society himself. Insisting on the so-called. Scientific positiveism, as noted by Slavist Vera Stanisavljevic, and by rejecting earlier approaches as romantic and non-scienceal, the Academy did not consider Kovacic's undertaking worthy of its new positive mission, and then the Serbian interest in Serbs died, thus also for Kovacic himself, who was eventually completely forgotten as a prominent scientist. After Serbia forgot its countrymen, the Roman Curia took advantage of Serbian passivity, so the Italian Smederjevci cataclysed first, and then translated it into Croatians. The propaganda of large-scale Croatia, under the laps of the Vatican and Hamburg Austria, has convinced scientific circles in Europe, as well as in Serbia, that the prayer Serbs are, in fact, Croats. Under the influence of such strong anti-Serbian ideas, the the thesis that Serbs, as a national identity, are uniquely Orthodox, has become increasingly convinced that Roman Catholic Serbs are not Serbs, but Roman Catholic Croats. Kovacic's example is only a good illustration of how a certain foreign ideological and political course had a negative impact on Serbian science, as well as on scientific work at the Academy at the time. By changing the ideological and political climate in Serbia, by the arrival of Karadjordjevic in 1903, and by causing a turn of Caesaro-pastic Austria towards liberal France, Serbian workers are beginning to perform with expressions of Serbian-national, then Yugoslav positions, in line with the ideology of French liberals, i.e. the masseary, which at the time had a positive impact on Serbian society, then in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. Between the two world wars, the Serbian Royal Academy has not yet been a research facility in the modern sense of the word, since it has not had institutes where scientists would work all the time. In Brozovo Yugoslavia, the Serbian Royal Academy, in line with the new republican and communist order, changed its name to the Serbian Academy of Sciences by law of 30 June 1947. The monarchy term is out. Many from the intellectual mile are familiar with the difficult political conditions of censorship that academics had to work from 1945 to 1989. At the end of the 1980s, SANU finally freed itself from the tutelage of communists and socialist ideology and politics and spoke in the language of the necessary national protection of the Serb people and protection of the then existing Yugoslav state. Because of the discovery of the truth, via the SANU Memorandum, of the difficult and humiliating political and economic position of the Serbian people, the attack on academics was fierce, as he spoke the language of truth and suppressed justice for the Serb people. So-called The national wing of the Serbian Academy has been globally persecuted and satanized for the so-called "Serb Academy". Great Serbia, through accusations in the mounted processes of Slobodan Milosevic and today, Dr Vojislav Seselj, Radovan Karadzic and other imprisoned Serbs. Academics of humanistic sciences have only tried to finally formulate a Serbian national programme, which, unfortunately, does not exist in this country today. Just remind yourself of a time when the most numerous, foretold people did not have their own territorial unit, while the new instant nations already had formed republics, states in Serbian territory. On the other hand, two provinces with secessionist leadership have been imposed on the people themselves in Serbia, who have always voted against their home republic. The most numerous Yugoslav people have always had a minus one vote. Such and similar truths were part of the memory of academics. Since the late 1980s, it was finally possible to hear the voice of academics of exact scientists, who were increasingly given the label of nationalist, regimeal, Milosevic academics from neoliberals. The most important thing is that, finally, without censorship and pressure, an exact scientific truth could be presented to the Serbian, Yugoslav and world scientific public. Finally, academicians Milorad Ekmečić, Slavko Gavrilović and Vasilija Krestic were able to speak uninterruptedly about the mythology of Croatia, supporting the younger ones that we have critically written about the virtual nation of Croatia, otherwise tabulated topic for many historians. At the time, capital works and new thoughts of national historians, academics, unconquered Radovan Samardzic, Cedomir Popov, a tireless fighter against Vojvodina's autonomists, the late Dejan Medakovic and Mihajl Markovic, the scientifically dominant lawyer, Prof. The bones of Cavoski, otherwise, a consistent fighter against The Hague tribunal's tyranny over Serbian slaves. For years, injustice has been done to the great Serbian historian and professor Dr Dragoljub Zivojinovic, who only in the late years of life, a year or two ago, gained a higher title of academics, although he is the author of more than 30 monumental studies and monographs. Isn't Professor Branko Petrovic... I'm sorry... Who created his own historical school, through his graduates, didn't deserve to become an academic for life? He's a professor at that. Petrovic wrote 50 studies and monographs and over 80 articles, criticism and polemics. On the other hand, scientists of the Institute of Social Sciences have been completely denied access to the calling of academics. Aren't the exact scientific results of some institute scientists enough to call academics? So here, in this lofty home, I ask a public question – is it just an exceptional scientific range important to call academics or is it about others, us invisible, recommendations? A scientist outside the Academy has been plagued by some secrecy from choosing future members of the Academy. According to scientific towers, stories can be heard that it is not always crucial to the exceptional scientific quality of candidates, but that, with a certain quality of candidates, it decides its ideological and political determination, namely the moral-political resemblance, given to the former communist vocabulary. In my opinion, the less impact of ideology and politics will strengthen democracy and justice in selecting candidates for academics, but will reduce the incarceration and secrecy of the institution. From time to time, the Serbian intellectual public is surprised by the choice of candidates, which is very far away from science and art, but who has expressed passionate qualities. Finally, to point out that the amendment proposed the introduction of a new Article 2a, in which I point out that SANU must be free from ideologies and policies, i.e. the permanent, crucial influence of ideological internationals, so that it can act freely, in accordance with the canons of humanistic science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36147	Twelve minutes and 45 seconds. The word is Miss Natasa Vuchkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36148	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is no doubt that the topic we are talking about today is about improving science, improving conditions for scientific work, improving innovation. Although all the MPs who spoke about these issues today spoke about the importance of these topics, I cannot help but feel that in our public there is insufficient attention to this issue, just as when we discussed the Law on Culture, the Law on Education. I think that in our public, our media, we should encourage that much more attention be paid to these issues, because these are today the most important issues globally. The issue of education and science is as important as the issue of economic development or the competitiveness of our national economy. These topics are even more important in Serbia, because in the 1990s, there has been a complete devastion in both education and culture, and in science and today, whenever we see any effort to improve the situation in these areas is being made, we see that there are terrible problems, the great consequences of backwardness and the lack of significant, decisive support in society to improve the situation in these areas. The Democratic Party has always put the issue of education and science in the first plan of its political programmes, from 90th to today. When we last worked on one of the pre-election programmes, a programme for a better life, Serbia as a society of knowledge was a special provision, given great attention. It is a great pleasure to see today that in these proposals of the law that we are being proposed today in the Assembly, it is a political programme that we have been in favour of for years and is in place. I want to talk about these three laws – on scientific research, on innovation activity and in part about the SANU law, and to highlight several elements that, based on the Science Development Strategy, are embedded in these laws, which are the basis of science development policy in Serbia. First of all, it is a visible integrated principle of intersectoral co-operation, which I find extremely important for the issues of science development. The development of science is not just about scientific institutes, it's about society as a whole, it's about education, it's about health. The application of science is also in health policy, but also in the area of economy. Inter-sectoral co-operation between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Economy, the ministry dealing with the development of a national and investment plan, etc., is very important. The strategy on scientific development is currently based on intersectoral co-operation. In that sense, I want to welcome the idea of the Centre for Popularization, or the promotion of science. I think that all the MPs who talked about it today, spoke positively, in a way encouraged that some experiences from the developed world, which some of us had had the opportunity to see, were transferred to Serbia. What is also one of the elements key to science policy in Serbia is linking science to economics. That's the principle he insists on and the law on innovation activities. I think it is crucial both for Serbia's development and for increasing the competitiveness of its products on foreign markets. What's the question, that's -- is our economy, with the structure it has today, ready to accept, interested in accepting the knowledge that our or foreign science can give it? I think we will agree that it is not and that we need to develop these capacities in the economy itself, so that science and economy can be truly linked. Both on the side of science and on the side of economy, especially, small and medium-sized enterprises, I see a space for intensive cross-sectoral work, to improve the possibilities of these capacities. What is very important, I think, is that we need to encourage the culture of innovation and the law on innovation activity makes it possible, among other things, by adopting the World Bank criteria and applying some principles that follow from the SAA. The founding of funds is of great importance in this sphere. What seems very important to me is that the strategy itself, but also the law on scientific research, encourages what in Serbia, I think, never exists enough. These are, cooperation, partnership, joint work on projects, simple, association. Today we've had more than one opportunity to hear, we know, besides, what little budgetary exposure there is to science. Our resources are extremely limited, so it is of great importance that we use them best and in the most efficient way. In Serbia, it seems to me, there is not enough culture of partnership, and in this sense it is important that this law encourages these experiences of countries that are most developed in science. It's just, in our science, we all know it well, there's a very closeness, i.e. particularization in projects. A large number of projects are similar, even, and there is a possibility for some complementary work. Because of this delicacy, they receive insufficient funding, so the results of such projects are not relevant enough, precisely because they are terribly depreciated, instead of focusing on achieving greater results, therefore, on better application in both the economy and other areas What seems very important to me is that the law on scientific research is imposing the need for change in the culture of behaviour. We have long witnessed that it is said with us – it deals with science, it deals with this and that question. It's very important, of course, when you do science, and you don't get results at once. But what's important, too, is to be focused on achieving results. Achieving results today is very important and the world is operating today based on the results produced. It is not necessary to make a mistake and to subdue science to a purely practical one, because there is always a question of whether all scientific results, scientific achievements, can be applied at this time. What's crucial is that we understand this orientation towards results as a very important issue. I'd like to point out one more thing that seems not well understood to me. For example, both in social sciences and in research dealing with social sciences, which is the necessity of connecting with the world, i.e. publishing in foreign magazines, publishing the results of research and work in foreign languages, kind of as if we're willing to do it to a greater extent, and that's what makes science co-response and communicate with the world and scientists in the world. Of course, we get nothing if a large number of scientists sign the same paper that they didn't really participate in. It only creates different types of monopolies in the evaluation of science and in the creation of privatisation in the assessment of the relevance of individual research. What is very important is what is highlighted by this science development policy, which is the return of young scientists or scientists who have been abroad for a long time. It is very important to understand their needs, with the treatment of scientists' returnees not making something that could be discrimination against scientists who have remained in Serbia all these years. Now that I've mentioned a change in the culture of behavior, I think it's also very important from another point of view, which is that it is necessary to create a balance in researching the past, on the one hand, and to seek solutions for the future. I'd like to point to one here, it seems to me, an activity that is insufficiently engaged in our SANU, which is, for example, an area of language. When we talk about science, namely SANU, I think we are all witnessing that the Serbian language today is in grave danger, precisely because there is insufficient monitoring of the development of certain areas in science, in the economy, etc. What each academy should do is enrich language, define new words that follow development in other areas. It's done by many of the world's academics, not to mention any of them now, but it's a very important thing, because it allows quality communication. Science contributes not to being isolated, to fight against every kind of provincialism, ignorance and underdevelopment. I very warmly support our goal of making science development policies as soon as possible, and I have heard that in 2015, we increase budget allocations to 1%, that we also have other projections to increase budget allocations. The Czech Republic and Croatia have 1%, and it is certain that Serbia should also have that percentage for science. What we have to do by then is use our resources in the most efficient way, to exploit the resources we have. I think focusing on those areas that these laws define as priority, so that we know how we see the development of science over the next few years. What matters is that it increases the standards, the standard of living of scientists and improves the conditions of their work. In that sense, I think that every kind of separation, housing, every kind of help to develop scientific institutions and build infrastructure is more than welcome. My deep belief is that the science development policy that is embedded in this strategy and in these proposals of the law is a good policy. I would like to join those who welcomed yesterday's signing of a 200m-euro loan agreement for our science. I think that's a great thing. In doing so, I read some comments from citizens, readers of various newspapers and media. In addition to welcoming the conclusion of this agreement, there is some doubt in many whether the funds will be used in the right way, for those objectives for which they are set and planned. Personally, I believe in both the Ministry of Science and the whole team. I had the opportunity to make sure at various conferences and debates that they were committed and enthusiastic about the development of science and the construction of all these institutions that were planned by the Strategy and these concrete laws. I deliberately mention these doubts, because we all know that scientists are people who are critical, educated, well informed. It is in their nature to have doubts and therefore it is necessary to give them accurate and valid, credible information. I believe this ministry will do it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36149	Thank you, Miss Vuchkovic. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36150	To clarify perhaps a few of the elements that Mrs Vuchkovic spoke of. Of course, now that this significant agreement is signed, there are also those torments, which are sweeter, but they are tormented. That's what the President of the Republic talked about yesterday, and that's what I was talking about, and that's what the finance minister was talking about. In this situation, although we will all agree that it is essential elements for the future of our nation, it is in no way a reason not to be thrifty and very practical. In particular, what does that mean? Everywhere there's a certain quality infrastructure, we'll improve it. There is no reason, as is, unfortunately, often happening in our country, to build and build and leave something that has been started; maybe it's not all about taste anymore, so it's left to rot. Another aspect is the fact that, if we look at the issue of equipment, and it will be more of a quality versus what was done and what was positive, which is an investment of about 27m euros in equipment made from the National Investment Plan in 2006-2008, we will have this year, if the National Assembly ratifys the signed agreement, a simultaneous call for projects, where the teams running projects, partly in line with the Strategy and the topics to be set up by the Ministry, with consultations with the scientific community, will seek money for themselves, but also for equipment and experiments. So we're going to avoid a much bigger problem that's been identified so many times, and that's that when a little bit of money comes in, then people are trying to make sure, generally, then try to get the best possible thing and start assuming it'll be useful. We already have a case today, because we're pedantly keeping records of these equipment, unfortunately, and in such a poor community, that very expensive appliances remain unpacked or, if used, the efficiency rate does not exceed 10% to 20%. The answer is the fact that this year and for the upcoming five-year cycle of funding for scientific projects, the evaluation will be made at the total amount for the project, and when the project is said to be successful, including the equipment needed to succeed. This synergy, in that case, will be provided in the very beginning, will be seen which equipment may be desirable, but it is not absolutely necessary to do a concrete project and what results are expected. Since we're going to do it simultaneously, we're going to work to unite everywhere that infrastructure is possible. In nano-sciences, for example, it wasn't hard to reach consensus with our six hundred people, as many of them at this point are concerned with the science of materials, and they come from various disciplines: chemistry, physics, mathematics, biology; many people, it's really something. I said a little bit more about it in the presentation this morning. It is expensive equipment and we do, if I may put it this way, an industrial assessment of needs, so we don't buy more than we should, but it's enough for everyone. It'll be shared infrastructure and there you're absolutely right. In science, as in the rest of our society, we don't have enough of that habit to share, to cooperate, unless we're in the same institution together. Chuck, we realized that in the same institute, in the same university, there was no such degree of co-operation between the cathedral, i.e. between the labs. We have to fight it, it's not good to say – it's our mentality. We find, for example, that a number of scientists are using the fact that certain equipment is in their laboratory, so they suddenly appear in a number of scientific papers where they have never appeared before, as some form of charge for access to and such equipment. Of course, it's not acceptable. That's why we're going to systematically solve these things. It is not enough to appeal, though necessary, to value and co-operation, but to reward and punish depending on the behaviour and functioning expected of such scientists. That is why I believe that this will help, because I am talking about very significant amounts, I am talking about 50m euros in equipment over the next few years. We've seen, the idea of this first funding movement is that things don't split so much that in the end no effect is achieved. In that sense, the predecessor of this arrangement was one broad and deep consultation with the scientific community and there was, for example, an example, I was talking about, so I won't be long, to these thousands of housing units, which are not cheap, but which are recognized, and that's something that requires clear criteria afterwards, to see who, under what circumstances can come to that unit. Many, many needs need to be reconciled. You said yourself, one of the very important things is that we work to get our scientists back from abroad, and that leads to reinforcements, not discord. It's not easy to do. We need to find the right measure. The right measure is to, above all, make sure we return those who can contribute very quickly by bringing new funds, new opportunities, new institutions and new investors. I'm sure it's not easy, but with this strategy, with these laws, with this arrangement and what's coming, I don't think I said it today, so I'd like to point out, through these efforts to establish the first arrangement of this guy with the European Investment Bank, that's possible. Just with the teams from that bank, who visited us, we have considered and seen that Serbia is the only one in the region that has shown this boldness and vision that already, in the midst of this crisis, it is going into such an arrangement. It was more a matter of more developed countries. That's what I heard and the word got out. Because the European Investment Bank is the Bank of Europe, that bank was formed the same day as Europe. The European Investment Bank is the Bank of Europe and, by the way, it is eight times larger than the World Bank and ten times larger than the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. We only have all the coordinates together, it's a central financial institution in the world, which is bigger than any other international financial institution combined, with the exception of the IMF, which is another thing. The European Commission, finding out Serbia's clear ideas, has approved already 25m euros in donations this time, to be used for infrastructure in highly educated institutions, with a clear goal, which is that our students are better prepared for the labour market. We have received an additional donation of 650,000 euros for this loan, which will be financed by the teams, and therefore we will not have to hire officials, to be in an engineering and economic-financial way and to carry out this huge investment in accordance with the law. Finally, we are very much talking to the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe, and on the basis of all this, we are awaiting a meeting and negotiations with dozens of major technology companies in the world. So I am convinced, what the President of the Republic said yesterday, which is the expected 400m to 500m euros in infrastructure investment, now and thanks, I hope, to the rapid ratification in this house of the signed agreement, that this will be a reality in the next five years. You're absolutely right, transparency in use, clarity in who gets what, under what conditions. At the same time, we will seek co-financing, because it is not enough to say – provide for me. So much in Serbia, let's look at the infrastructure around us, from the Hall of Pionir, the other day, sport, science, build, and not maintain; make it rot afterwards. We still don't have that habit of going into an investment venture, we're doing a good budget for current maintenance and depreciation. Amortisation is a concept that occurs only in the short, '50s, '60s, during the then Yugoslavia, including scientific institutions, and then disappears; it started with an depreciation that has not been maintained, and it is the only, in the financial and investment sense, there to ensure the sustainability of what we are doing. I'm not saying that we're going to re-introduce depreciation, but of all the institutions that want to be users of this kind of means, we expect them to show will and demonstrate their capacities, to work largely on the ongoing maintenance of such infrastructure. We cannot let it happen again to us that in five to ten years, what we have, with great luck, restored and made it out of the machine, that it does not work because there is no consumable material, because now there has to be a reconstruction, which is much more expensive, because it has not invested at least a little each year to maintain it. It's a big challenge, but, like I said, it's much better to have problems like this. We're on our way, there's gonna be a problem, we're gonna fight it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36151	Thank you. Mr. Radisa Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36152	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the beginning of a discussion on the draft law on geographical indications cannot differ by anything from today's and yesterday's discussions, some of two or three months ago, because the introduction is always the same. First, all European directives, all decisions of the European Commission, all regulations of the EU Council of Ministers, marked with codes, are listed, and this is an indication to you if you think that one fine day you will step into the EU. The only flaw is that there is no distance on the road to the EU and no date when it finally reaches its goal. Until then, there are countless harmonisations ahead of Serbia, so that, specifically, this law is in order. However, in this argument, on page 27, the government finds, with a small amount of disappointment, that no dialogue has yet been established between representatives of the Republic of Serbia and the European Commission, so it cannot even be assessed in full compliance with the draft law on geographical indications of origin with European legislation. A famous Stabilisation and Association Agreement is also mentioned here, which for some of the pro-European policies of the current current current government, and for some extorted agreement, which causes Serbia to lose more than 200m euros annually. It's a huge amount for our country, a deserted economy, for a country where every seven people, literally, are hungry, and 700,000 citizens live in extreme misery. Now our country, law by law, like, will, say. and this proposal for a law on designations of geographical origin, grooming by European molds, not caring for damage which, precisely because of the application of the Trade Agreement, is growing and larger. Now we come also to the commercial products, which are, in part, the reason for the adoption of this law. On the side that, by opening Serbian borders, agricultural and other products have entered our market significantly cheaper, with their sound names, brand and their geographical indications. The problem is they've won our market, and they've closed theirs to our products. The honor of exceptions that have penetrated the western market through the needle's ears. Our brands, our products with geographical indications, if they haven't found their place on the domestic market, can only be used by their owners to paint a memory and a long memory with them on the domestic market. There is an impression, based on some of the facts of the recent past, that our country was somewhat behind on the protection and preservation of the names of domestic products. The remarks brought forward today by the SRS MPs, mentioning ajvar, toast, plum, ham, had their own meaning, as the minister himself informed us that there were indeed attempts to steal names and get stamps for certain types of products from our premises. In the future, it should react more sharply in case someone tries to steal what belongs to Serbia and its climate, picturedly speaking. This fact also speaks of the morale of those who think they have the right to own others, to make wine out of Serbian grapes, and to forge the country of origin and portray it as their own, or, as you yourself said, an attempt to take a brand of wooded ajvar by Slovenians, not to mention Swiss and Serbian plums and many other examples that have been heard today in the National Assembly. The SRS has submitted several amendments to the bill, but regardless of whether it will be adopted, the law will suffer another harmonisation over the next five years. There are some members in the law that really need to change, because let's not forget that these are literal translations, that some concepts can change the meaning of an entire member. Let's say, in art. 29, 43 and perhaps others, the word "concealing" is still inappropriate for the text of one law, as if it were a magician who's going to turn something. We have proposed a more appropriate word for the amendment - "replacement." The term'sightsee' in the 12th term; it turns out that the registers, by the suggestion, are images and exhibits that are viewed by interested persons. We still believe that these are documents that need to be made aware and that this way, clearly and precisely, will be legally formulated. Then, the word 'knowledge' in Article 8, not to list some other concepts and members of the law. The Proposer would have to in future, not only in this case, but also when proposing other laws to the National Assembly for adoption, to clear the text of the proposal from the words that bring confusion, unknown or inappropriate to the law of a country. In an analysis of the effect of the law, paragraph 7), it is recognised that the proposed law does not have a direct impact on the emergence of new economic operators, but it is for comfort that the protection of the geographical indication at EU level will be ensured. However, it is not enough to possess only a geographical indication. In addition, you have provided us with a list of domestic persons with a geographical indication and we can see that in 37 home tags, as many as 29 tags refer to agricultural products. The second barrier, quality control for the entry of our products into the EU market, is said little, because the EU is well aware of how to make our products, primarily agricultural, because we have, mainly, keep them at the border, demanding that the alleged limit values for pesticides, other chemicals, additives in agricultural products be met, or that conditions on the size and form of fruit and vegetables etc. be met. On the other hand, products with protected geographical indications from the EU flood our market in huge quantities, agricultural products that have been obtained, increasingly, from genetically modified varieties. These products, at first glance, attract the buyer by their size, proper shape, color, but hide a genetic bomb, which will show its face only for a few generations to come. That's why the West is massively turning to healthy food, because young generations are seriously threatened by the consumption of such unhealthy food, which also had geographical indications. However, the chain of Western industrial production cannot just be cut off, as large money has been invested in the production process. That is why we and countries similar to Serbia are extremely suitable to place such products, which will be cheaper and thus more accessible to customers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36153	From the time of the Parliament Group, eight minutes. The word is Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36154	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, respected citizens of Serbia, if we look at science as the unity of discoveries and evidence, the method of the system of research and exposure, we will realize that science is the generator of the progress of every society. The one who does not understand the importance of science in the 21st century, the one who criticises this law, holds in his hand the same torch that set fire to Jordan Bruno's stake. Anyone who criticises 200m euros Serbia will receive and invest in science and scientific development criticises the progress of this society. There are people who are opponents of books and such people have always been through history. It's bad when opponents of books are in a position to criticise the law. Opponents of books tend to learn and not draw their authority from books, but from the book, but from the party. When the party's book is opposed to the book, then we have a situation, when such a party comes into a position to decide on science in Serbia, that the only investment it sees, when it comes to science, is investment in locks of colleges, scientific institutes and institutions. It's bad when these people criticise a law like this, when they criticize investment in science. Then we can say that their foundations are flimsy and that they build a flimsy building. Maybe the walls of that building are firing from the strength, but that building is a bad building. When we talk about science as a generator for the progress of a society, we need to ask ourselves for a reason what a contribution Serbian science is to human civilization. We have to ask ourselves what the world would look like today if traffic fires hadn't been poured into electrical energy, the alternating current that was donated to the world by Tesla. What would the world look like without Ruđer Boskovic, without Milutin Milankovic, without Michael Pupin, Joseph Pancic? Let me finish my presentation with a picturesque comparison. It was in human civilization trying to stop progress, to stop science. There have been attempts to fall behind the false authority of the Inquisition into scientific achievements, to stop the wheel of history, to stop the wheel of civilization's progress. It was in human history, when the good God created the earth, he created two caves. In a cave, a man, at that time, finds diamonds, and says, "They're beautiful diamonds and it's beautiful this cave and we're going to live here." He brought his tribe into the cave, and then he said, "Maybe other people will see the beauty of our caves, and they will bring a great rock to the entrance of the cave, and they will paint some paintings themselves, and they will enjoy the beauty of their diamonds, and they will laugh at the desolation of the other cave that was in the immediate neighborhood. Then, one night, the light of the Bethlehem star shines on that cave, and today everyone knows about the Bethlehem cave, and no one knows about the cave that day and day exists where that stone is pushed; these people live in it, without the desire to advance their knowledge, their life, and to accept civilizational fluids. There are people who believe today that the world is a flat plate, they have their own association. They don't die any happier or happier than us who know and believe that the world, that the planet is round, that it belongs to science, that this science has its place on that planet. We who vote in the voting day for this law, too, hold one torch in our hand. Citizens of Serbia, it is the torch that lights the European lighthouse, which was lit by Dr Zoran Djindjic, and that lighthouse will follow with such a law and burn that flame on the lighthouse. I thank you for the 200m-euro loan that will enter Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36155	Thank you, Mr. Milivoevich. The word is Mr. Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36156	Just to begin by realizing that, unfortunately, the number of fellow Members present, who are interested in this topic, is also approximately proportional to the percentage of highly educated people in Serbia today. It's an image that causes concern. If we agree that selection, adaptation, commercialisation and effective use of knowledge are the preconditions of sustainable economic development of the country and economic growth, as well as the continuous improvement of the living standards of the population, then we need to accept the fact that in this modern world, each individual must be able to use its knowledge to advance it, to select what is important in the given context and to understand what is learned, so that it can adapt to the requirements of ever faster change. Hence, it is a fundamental tendency to focus, first of all, on understanding what is learned, rather than the usual transfer of facts. Moreover, what must be applicable in practice is actually this development of technology and science, in which change is very common today, knowledge is faster than before. For the development of society, the key role is precisely the education system and scientific research work, and it depends on the appropriate reaction of other social systems, as well as technological development. On the other hand, the fact must be respected that education and science are not isolated systems and that they cannot develop independently from society as a whole. That's why the so-called development. Contemporary society and knowledge is not only in the domain of the education system, but also depends on this interlinking and coherence of different parameters. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, to achieve the objectives requires much greater coordination of work, mutual co-operation, and that has already been said by various competent state institutions, above all, the ministries of science and education, labour and employment, social issues, regional development, etc., as well as all other relevant national institutions. There is nothing less important than the role of information technologies, which have become a necessary condition for the success of individuals in society and in the market, as well as countries in the overall development. What has been raised today as an extremely important issue is the issue of funding education and science, and we in the SRS consider it one of the crucial issues in all future plans, strategies or whatever we call them. It is quite unclear how an increase in investment will be achieved and in what extent, when this does not mean further, the example works, and credit borrowing. What I've been able to notice so far is, first of all, your invitation to certain international documents, so on. Lisbon Declarations, on the achievement of 3% of GDP for research and development, on UNESCO's recommendations, on increasing and investing in education 6%. We all know what kind of relationship we have when it comes to Serbia. In particular, better monitoring, i.e. an analysis of investments, is required to start with some micronivore, in order to demonstrate the effects of expenditure and GDP ratios. In particular, we believe that there is a need to change the financing of scientific research, especially in terms of stimulating, i.e. investment in industry and the private sector. The ministry, i.e. the state, should Decidently declare whether this is a long-term priority, I believe that this should be, as necessary, the appropriate legislative regulations on the promotion of investment in industry, the private sector in scientific and research work, certain tax reliefs, as one measure, etc. Other measures must be envisaged, for example, the use of patents, the right to hire the best scientists on concrete projects for the needs of the financiers etc. The existing way of funding research work from the budget, according to which certain funds, which unfortunately are not large, are given exclusively to scientific research organisations registered in the Ministry of Science and, in the event that they meet defined conditions, limits the work of the organisations themselves to some extent. In particular, this problem is present in individuals, or people who are individually involved in this work. This, in practice, means that it is impossible to obtain certain funding from the budget for these independent research projects, therefore, one or a group of researchers, as well as those researchers working in private higher education institutions who independently want to carry out certain research, except in competitions, which are organised in part. It is also necessary to provide for this problem, i.e. to enable other means to be allocated. I'm sure we all agree that what's undeniable is when it comes to investment, of course, science and education. Finally, a plan or strategy to address the existing situation, which, I repeat, is not satisfactory, would have to be more elaborate and precise, in order for the state of Serbia to pursue development goals. This way we have only 6% of higher education students, and before, and unfortunately, after the white Schengen, for the largest number of them, continue to care for other countries rather than Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36157	Seven minutes and 10 seconds of the MP's time were used. The word is Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic. The remaining time is 25 and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At the very beginning, I have to say, the previous DS speaker, I can't quite tell which cave he came from, but I can tell where that torch that burned on October 5th, where it was and where it burned. But, well, it's not the subject of this discussion. First, I fear that for many years there will be no technology applied in Serbia. When I say, applied technologies, I mean technology that's going to be applied for a long time by others, over, that offers us both technology and equipment. In the afternoon discussion, I was talking about these ten years where there was destruction and economy and economy. If we look back at the chemical industry and chemical giants, which is the Viskoza Chemical Industry "Zorca" from Sapac, "14 October", metal industry, MIN Nis, if we mention the Electronic Industry in Nis, "Freedom" Cačak, I ask the question – how are we going to use these 200 million euros that we're going to get? We'll get that loan, whether it's fixed or variable interest, you'll probably make a deal, but I wonder how we'll start from the ashes, as you say, to create, i.e. In five or six years, we'll become an investigative power? Mr. Minister, we can make milk equipment, we're capable, but I'm asking you -- what makes milk, and that's a cow, that process has to last 3-4 years? So, what you're saying, I doubt we'll be able to revitalise ourselves for this time. I'd like it the most, maybe more than you. You've been through, probably, the centres of Russia, Poland, France, and you've come to Serbia, so you've probably seen how these research centres have been developing. Ladies and gentlemen, the process is ongoing. I'm asking another question for you, and that's a nonsensical question, over which we all need to think deeply. We're talking about the Serbian Academy of Science, but where's the Vojvodina Academy of Science? Do you think these laws can be applied to the entire territory of the state, or only in this narrow part? You didn't answer that, and that's not what the law says. What you also said at the beginning is that the purpose of these laws is by an urgent procedure to set up boards and board presidents at research centres. I also said in the afternoon discussion, and we agreed on the parent committee that, hopefully, politicization would come out of the institute. What I would also refer to is a strategy for the scientific and technological development of the Republic of Serbia, in fact, energy and energy efficiency. We know that energy is the country's strategic infrastructure necessary for its comprehensive development and security. The Republic of Serbia does not have enough energy resources for its own purposes, so it is focused on importing much of the strategic energy, oil, gas, quality coal, as well as parts of energy equipment, particularly modern, efficient and environmentally acceptable. In order to avoid and prevent dependence on import energy, it is necessary to restore and expand the domestic production of modern energy equipment and equipment for environmental protection, and also create alternative energy potentials, which will also reduce the unemployment rate. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, because you say you need to create or build that equipment, how many years do you think this equipment can be done strategically? Did you know that "October 14th" from Kruševac was world-famous for the production of mining technology, that we exported this equipment to Africa and Asia? I'm asking you, where is today and what branch is today's October 14th industry? In addition to the enormous effort and importance of the funds invested in revitalising the facility of the Republic of Serbia, the situation in the energy sector is unfavourable, for various reasons. The profits generated from this branch of the economy were spent on political campaigns, not on expanding energy capacities and creating new alternative plants for electricity production. We know well that Serbia in Europe is one of the countries with the highest water potential, on which more hydropower plants can be built, along with building a riverbed, which would prevent what is most present in Serbia today, and these are floods, ladies and gentlemen. Priorities in science and technological development must be consistent with the priorities of energy development, i.e., I also mentioned in previous exposure, it must work on building new power plants for electricity generation, then revitalising energy plants in the energy system, on equipment on surface spears, in urban heat and industrial energy. The new law, i.e. amendments and additions to the Law on Innovation Work, will enable a functional link between the acts which bring priorities identified by the government's innovation policy with the dynamics of the implementation of the annual programmes of innovation activity and the realisation of innovation and development projects, the establishment of a framework in which the protection and transport of intellectual property rights is achieved, and in the course of the implementation and implementation of innovation and development projects, develops on reliable and stimulating basis. The application of the law in the light of the clarified specific criteria of innovation activity, through the category of development projects, should establish a basis for effective support for the development of innovation activities of those innovation entities that are in the most direct connection with the sector in which innovation products and services are implemented. Promote the structure of innovation organisations in priority areas of science and technology, whose establishment will mean a direct link in the innovation of development activities with strategic priorities in basic and applied research. Discharge of the legal text from part of vague and dysfunctional provisions or provisions that fall, legally and functionally, in the sublegal implementation of strategic and national priorities related to scientific and technological development. The implementation of amended and updated provisions will also allow a close partnership with the economy and international organisations, as well as a full organisation with other ministries, through the definition of specific innovation and work programmes. Ladies and gentlemen, my colleagues have talked a lot about geographical indications submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This law seeks to indicate a geographical origin and here is a good presentation presented by Mr. Poturak, but has not highlighted something that is very present today. Ladies and gentlemen, you will, regionally, say – we want to produce goldenberry cheese, but you did not say where you would get the raw materials for the dairy producer, the cow, which is from the Vojvodina area. So neither the raw materials nor the repromatter are secured from Zlatibor. In fact, this way you want to trick the manufacturer, i.e. the user of the product, which means that the declaration cannot only say that the cheese from Zlatibor is produced, but must also indicate raw materials, where the raw materials are provided for the feeding of cattle, for the feeding of cows. You know, if you bring the cow "Simental" to Zlatibor and let her pastures of Zlatibor, she'll produce the same quality milk as the Busha, our national cow, which was raised in our fields. So what you said about geographical indications of origin is acceptable, but only under certain conditions. In that declaration, there must be complete origin and raw materials and production, that whoever uses it may know all about the origin of that product. I am on the Committee for Science and Technological Development on the application of herbicides, insecticides, which are now applied in Serbia's territory. That area's out of control. Today, there are many who import these preparations, and it is normal for our farmers to sell it with certain instructions. There is nowhere to be controlled that these chemical preparations have come to our territory, in a great desire to produce as much food as possible, in a system of great shortages. You know well that Serbia was a country, I say, in a Europe that could be compared, even, with the Netherlands, with large food producers. I ask you where is Serbia today, where is Machva, where is Vojvodina, where is Posavotmanawa? Where are these areas that used to produce? Where is the degree of competitiveness of their production today? She's gone. You see, today, many have talked about subsidies and everything that has been followed in this agricultural production. A whole food chain is connected, continuously, with an industrial system in Serbia. We had food factories that processed fruit. Today we're one of the biggest fruit exporters, but where is it processed? It is processed in Slovenia, Croatia or Austria, or other countries of Europe. What my colleague Ilic was saying, you know, when the plums were being bought out, then she had to have a gauge match for the exporters, because they wanted the plum size to be adequate. That means you have to measure on the plums by measuring whether it's three or four centimeters or less. These conditions dictated by the West, the EU, are ruthless, but when they need to place their goods, do you know whether they produce for us or for the Eastern market the same thing they produce for their citizens? Therefore, know that we are not in an equal position, and I am afraid. I would prefer it if science came to terms and these 200m euros could be used to exploit the economic potential of smartness and science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36159	Used 13.5 minutes from the MP's time. The last reported one is Mr. Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36160	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the Ministry, I must tell you that the MPs of the SRS have spoken according to what is the subject, and the topic is science, people who are involved in science, institutions through which this can be achieved and the ultimate goal, what we want to achieve through it. At the same time, I have to tell you that science is not just a problem for the Ministry of Science and Technological Development or privilege. By definition, if science is a universal category, then it's a whole society problem i.e. complete countries. Since I don't lack courage, I'm allowed to tell you in advance that I'm going to criticise this law, and it's justified. It's inadmissible, or at least a little distracting to me when someone who hasn't read any of the legal proposals presents some characteristics in three or five minutes. You will see in my argument that I rightly criticise it, I will even try to provoke the esteemed Professor Nedeljkovic. If that's what I'm going to do, and I'm going to tie it to this law on the protection of geographical origin, it's a success for me today, and it's also for the SRS Group. One of the authorised representatives of a political party, I'm not going to say which, which is not there, can't answer me, said we've lost about 10 years. I know what period he's thinking about. I'm not invited here to protect that period, because I don't feel any responsibility on behalf of the SRS, but I just need a few facts from that period to say. Just 20 years ago, Belgrade's Faculty of Electrical Engineering was among the 15 best in the world, and today, on the Shanghai list, Mr. Minister, of 500 universities, there are none from Serbia. Today, after 10 years of democratic power in Serbia, our separation for science is 0.3% of GDP. I can't say that one party, simply, was never sufficiently singled out for science in this country, and perhaps in some period, which was referred to by an authorised representative of a particular political party, and more than it is today, and even less that this law cannot be criticised. I apologize to Mrs. Branko Totic of the Institute of Intellectual Property, I don't know how much she does science work, but I suppose two State Secretarys and how they do scientific work; the minister is more involved in politics and said he is in politics as skillful as he is. Minister, this topic we talked about today doesn't allow for the fines. You've tried very often, I can't think of anything, nor can I take it away from you, but we can't make unrealistic promises to people who are trying to do serious science. We say to ourselves that we're old society, that the average is 42 years old, but the average of people who do science is still above our average life of citizens, he's about 45 years old. If we send a message from your post now, Mr. Minister, to the young people that it's all settled, that these 200 million people are solving all problems yesterday, then we're going to lead them astray and it's going to come back to them very soon as a boomerang. You can't do that. You're an optimist, no one's defending you, but you have to be realistic about making some statements, and I don't think that was the case. In the end, about this strategy, I don't know if the one who said -- who puts something against these laws -- was even reading this strategy. She first identified all the problems that our science has today, and they are not small, they are very numerous, and then you have given certain solutions, or seeing how it can be overcome. Once again, since you have not responded, and I have the right as a national MP, as a representative of citizens, in order to solve some problems together, I ask – why do researchers have a sentence, is meant by those of social and humanist sciences, "weak links with state policy holders", and these laws, I suppose, should define certain ways and patterns of conduct for all those who want to practice science in general, from any of these six groups and branches, to deal with whatever their relationship with policy holders? There's a proper way of acting, means that they can apply and that they choose to do science the way they do it in the world, but you don't say it like that. When I said this morning, in my own opinion, that these laws are dominated by political colors, I'm going to show you through the law on scientific research and action. Our scientists who were involved in social and humanistic sciences, as one of the recognized and respected scientists said, did not play by the rules of world games, while this cannot be said for those scientists who were involved in natural or technical sciences. They are likely, due to the publication of works, some categories that must otherwise have access, probably today ready to be involved in the international course of this science. There is a Law on Scientific Action and he said, in Article 9, that the Strategy is being adopted for 10 years. It is still a valid Law on scientific research, and the government has adopted a Strategy for the Development of Scientific Technology Research from 2010 to 2015. We don't respect that anymore. Amendments and additions have been proposed, but, Mr. Minister, it's a valid regulation, it can't do that. It could have waited, or done something, or not changed that deadline at all. So if anyone dares to criticize a little, then he doesn't mean to learn well. I guarantee for myself and all the MPs of the SRS who spoke. This isn't a subject where a sharper word can be referred, but one who dares to speak five minutes of this without reading these suggestions doesn't think well of science. When we talk about the National Council, we've had 17 members of the National Council before, we now have 17 members. The structure of the members is better at the proposed changes and additions than it was before, and politics has come here as well. How? So far, the president of the National Council has elected 17 members of the National Council. Who's gonna pick the president now? He'll be elected by the government. On whose suggestion? On a proposal from the Minister. You say, "What difference does it make, they finance it." It's got a lot of connections. I now view this as a lawyer by profession, and you said – the deputy president of the National Council will be elected by the other members of the Council. That's impossible. Take the president of the assembly, Mrs Comic, right, is elected in the same way, that is, the vice president and vice president of the assembly are elected in the same way as the president is elected. You wanted to put it under control. Earlier there were six from the institute, six from the university, now have three; SANU, two earlier, now the same, two; the Serbian Mother, one; the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, one earlier, and now it's said to be five. You say three members will be representatives of the economy and two from abroad. It may be a better structure than it's ever been in the field of scientific people, and in the area of defence, it's also good. Because, which is said by those who are in government today or who support this government, Serbia has nothing to export. I don't think that's quite the case, but the knowledge economy is our advantage, and we could see it through the centuries. After all, it seems to me that you said this morning, and I'm completely okay with it, that the accelerated development of American science has given no one else a chance but Nikola Tesla. I suppose there are still people in Serbia who have such or similar access to science. That's why today in the U.S. the largest number of people came from various countries. Secretary of State, you do science and scientific research, and you probably thought a number of times you couldn't handle it anymore, I guess, not because of your personal incomes, which at some point were beneath the dignity and what you know, but because of the equipment you could meet with; it was a much bigger problem than we have today. The merger of these laws is not good. I'm sure we could send a better message from this place, that's to say more about this than what the Science Promotion Center is going to do, because at the Science Promotion Center, it's likely that people from the Ministry will be deployed, so within this 10% reduction in numbers, etc., you don't let your staff go far from it, but it's not good and it doesn't have to be done. What I was going to provoke Mr. Nedeljkovic is this: there are exactly 52 products here, or 52 geographical indications, among others, and Aril raspberries. Which is why it does not exist, or is not founded, think about it, the minister will not, so I am talking to you, perhaps, the Institute of Malin, the strawberry and the blueberry, that today we are not dealing with the blueberry only in Serbia, Ivan Djukanovic of Belanovica, but that one institute is doing it? If the Aryan raspberries are a protected product and are now being produced in Ariel, more than is being spent, it is perhaps the only municipality in Serbia, which is why one of the institutes would not be there, precisely because of it? You know what the problems with the raspberries producer are, but let's see if we still have to make the raspberries, or if we need to move on to blueberry, blackberry or something. If I can provoke you to work in that direction, we've completed this debate successfully today.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36161	Mr Bozidar Djelic, minister, answered the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36162	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members of the People, I would agree with the last speaker. I think this has been a successful day, for reasons we've been discussing all day what our country's future is. I know that this is a bit of a phrase, often used, literally, for each topic, but Serbia started out with a science gap of about 25m euros in total in 2001, and now has arrived at four times the amount, Serbia has found regular professors at universities at a beggar stick and unpaid salaries in institutes, Serbia has had no investment in equipment for our scientific institutions, and at the end of the 1980s it has stopped everything, including the 'Vinch', which we have talked about; since 1984 it has been stopped in its initial mission. Thanks to other developments, which today is not, we will be able to solve this problem, which lasts 26 years, and finally move it to the country of origin, i.e. by the end of this year. The Russian Federation, this nuclear waste, in a way that only returns to its scientific mission and thus our greatest scientific capacity reaffirms its place, not only in the region, but also in Europe. Today is the moment when we saw how three coordinated movements can combine and since this year it's something we'll be able to see together, the moment we're here to discuss the 2012 budget. We have a strategy, this strategy has priorities, this strategy has concrete measures, this strategy has both concrete and quantified objectives, there is a mechanism through which its realisation can be monitored. We have today, thanks to the Assembly, debate, I hope, soon, and passed laws, which will allow such a strategy to be implemented. There's no intention of politicizing science, nor is there any reason for that to happen. This, I think, is the element of the consensus and therefore I hope that in April, at the next session of the National Assembly, we will have a law on ratification of the arrangement with the European Investment Bank, so that in May we can carry out in the right way the upcoming financing cycle. With these elements we have, I'm not saying, a sure success and victory, but we have a lot more arguments to introduce ourselves to our European and world partners, whether they're scientific, whether they're economic. I can tell you that today these shifts made by our country, which are not enough, deserve the attention of certain decision-making centres in that domain. What's most important in the knowledge economy, what wins, is a clear picture of what we want to do and the will to succeed. Now messages are coming out of the world, and our scientists see that something really concrete is happening this time, not that they have the illusion that everything is going to change overnight, but it's certain that the degree of interest and desire to get involved is higher than it was a few months and years ago. I'd agree, this has been a successful day. In the days to come, we will consider the proposed amendments. We have already seen several amendments that are absolutely justified and on behalf of the Government and I will accept them. At the same time, I'm sure this won't be the last moment. By the summer we will form, if you adopt these laws, and the relevant institutions, and if the arrangement is ratified, this year we will be working on the foundations of the Infrastructure Petnica, we will be working on building one of the lamels in block 32b, because 200 scientific families expect yours and our decision to go on that path, to finally get a roof over their heads. We will work to prepare and implement this call this year, namely 50 million equipment, which will allow them to be the best calls and the best projects our country has ever had. All in all, Serbia today, as the Vice-President of the European Investment Bank, who is considering the entire region and the whole of Europe, has shown through these movements that it is able, has the courage, has the capacity to rise from the current economic crisis and to recognise the real answers to it. We will also build this material infrastructure, from the energy corridors, but we are already building capacity, building the knowledge that needs and personnel, that in the years that come we can be able to, in addition to these corridors, there are facilities of our beginnings, our clusters, speaking in an established poor Serbian language, because we ourselves see that we have talked so little about science, that sometimes we lack and say that we express these new forms of organization and the functioning of modern science and technology. Either way, in the next few years, I'm convinced of that, and this strategy and these laws will provide it. We will have Serbia in five years in which the singles will be close to 1% of GDP. The goal is that one third of it comes from private sources. We will have five to six institutions that will be on one European gauge. Until then, Europe, implementing its 20-20 vision, will launch, when the new financing cycle begins in 2014, so-called FP8, or whatever it's gonna be called then, we'll see. Serbia, which today draws some 15m euros annually from these funds, will have a greater factor. One Czech Republic, for only one project and one laboratory, pulled 24m euros from these funds in February this year, so that Serbia, its scientists and its citizens have a future in the knowledge economy, provided we agree on diagnostics, which is that the initial situation is not the easiest, but also recognize that with the human capacity we have in the country and the dispersion we have all the elements to be winners of the coming great battle and the great war for the position in the 21st century knowledge economy. Thank you so much for your attention and so much success for all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-05-0.u36163	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask – do they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? (No) (Greto Peric, from the place: Replica. There's no reason to replicate the minister. In principle, you received commendation and did not provoke the professor, therefore, thank you, Mr. Peric. I am concluding a joint principled single search on the draft laws under points 9, 10, 11, 12, 16 and 17 of the agenda. I'm scheduled to resume the session for Tuesday, 9 March 2010, at 10 o'clock. After the possibility allowed by Article 235. Rules of Procedure, item 13 of the agenda – Amnesty Act. Nice weekend and happy March 8th.
