ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48397	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 87 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 87 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I remind the MPs that on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and after opening the session and setting out the number of MPs attending the session and before moving to a further debate, the National Assembly is working on the basis of Article 286(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which states, in the first position, that the MP has the right to request notices and explanations from the President of the National Assembly, the chair of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, on issues within the scope of the rights and duties of these officials from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, and on Tuesdays and Thursdays, this right under Rule 1 of Article 286 may also be achieved at the session of the National Assembly or at a session held in one address, for up to five minutes, on Tuesdays and Thursdays, immediately after the opening of the sitting and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the sittings, and the transition to a further discussion. Before we move to work on the basis of Article 286, respected fellow Members of Parliament, I would like to remind you with special satisfaction that on today 1990, the first multi-party elections were held in the Republic of Serbia and that 20 years after that significant date, we are witnessing the fact that the multi-party system in Serbia has come into life, that it is built, that political life in our country is largely taking place with Europe and with the countries of European democracy. I hope, honestly, that we will continue together with efforts to gain democracy and all democratic values not only in importance but in practice, in everyday life and the work of Serbian citizens, and our first task is to make sure that this is actually carried out in the everyday life of all of us and the Republic of Serbia. Parliamentaryism in Serbia has a great deal of attributes to true democratic parliamentaryism, but there is always room for more to be done, to do better and to go beyond anything existing. I have no doubt 250 of us will make a full contribution. Convinced that I share the opinion of all MPs, the National Assembly, as well as Serbia, is on the right track. The People's Messenger Balint Pastor has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48398	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, today, 20 years after the first multilateral elections in Serbia, in the spirit of parliamentaryism, I would like to ask a few questions to Mr Vuk Jeremic, Foreign Minister of the Republic of Serbia. The day before yesterday, a shameful and scandalous decision was made not to attend a ceremony to award the Nobel Prize to Chinese dissident Li Xiabo. With that decision, I'd like to ask a few questions. The first question for Mr. Jeremic is – what does it link, what values do the following countries link: China, Russia, Kazakhstan, Colombia, Tunisia, Saudi Arabia, Pakistan, Iraq, Iran, Vietnam, Afghanistan, Venezuela, Philippines, Egypt, Sudan, Ukraine, Cuba, Marko and Serbia? At first, I thought it was countries that adhere to international law and fully respect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. I looked into it a little bit more, so it turns out there are three countries among these countries that have recognised Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence. These are the following countries: Colombia, Saudi Arabia and Afghanistan. A link between the countries and Serbia is not respect for international law and refuse to recognise Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence. Yesterday, Minister Jeremic said last night that the decision was not made lightly and that Serbia's state interest is thus best represented. I ask Mr Jeremic – which state or national interest of Serbia is best represented in this way. We can learn from the Government of Serbia's programme that it has several objectives. The first goal is to speed up Serbia's entry into the EU. The decision certainly does not contribute to Serbia's entry into the Union, if it is thought of the EU. If one is referring to an African or Asian union, then the Government of the Republic of Serbia should inform the National Assembly. The fact that this decision does not contribute as soon as Serbia enters the EU as soon as possible is best shown by statements coming from the European Commission and from the European Parliament's Committee on Southeast Europe, whose president is Mr. Eduard Kukan, otherwise an MP coming from Slovakia, the same state that has not recognised Kosovo's independence. Mr. Eduard Kukan, along with members of this European Parliament committee, thinks this decision by the government of the Republic of Serbia is a bad signal and that it is a great disappointment for the EU. The second objective towards the Government of the Republic of Serbia programme is economic development and infrastructure building. We ratified an agreement with China on the construction of the Borca-Zemun Bridge, which envisions an interest rate of 3%, plus 1.75% for other interest costs. These funds will build a bridge of friendship, a bridge of friendship from credit. Also, on the site of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it is literally, I quote, from April 2008 – Norway is one of the largest donors in Serbia. In the past seven years, Norway's grants amounted to over 140m euros. In addition, it should be added that EU donations have arrived in the last 10 years at 1.9 billion dinars. Accordingly, I ask Mr. Jeremic - what are the interests of the national and state-owned Serbia that are best represented in this way? I urge the government to change this shameful and scandalous decision and that Serbia still has someone (President: Five minutes). People's MP, your time has been used at your disposal. ..... I end up, and Serbia still sends someone to the Nobel Peace Prize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48399	The word has a message from Zlata Đeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48400	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored President, the Honorable Citizens of Serbia, I refer to the question of the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Finance. The issue is about the government's debt to pensioners, or farmers' pensioners. In fact, it has been promised, and on several occasions the question has been asked, that the debt created in terms of agricultural pensions is paid twice this year. One time in September, and one time in December. That payment didn't come up. I remind you that it is the category of our citizens who have the least pensions, they are well below 100 euros, that it is the category of our citizens who are the hardest and most expensive one to pay their pensions, that these are citizens who are now, of course, without any benefits in the health fund, very seriously ill, with often sick and lovable members of their family, therefore, on this small pension are supported by more family members in the farming household, so the question – when will the state finally pay off that debt and will that debt, when paid, be paid together with the corresponding interest? Because every debt to the state, every debt due to electricity or the use of state services comes with the corresponding interest, and that's how it's charged? Will the farmers get this debt, and will they get it with the corresponding interest? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48401	The word has an MP, Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48402	I have a question for Minister Ciplic. What I will talk about and the contents of the questions and how it can relate to what my fellow Pastor said. The question for Minister Ciplic is – why does Minister Ciplic and his ministry continue to violate human rights, law and constitution? Instead of dealing with the scandalous decision by Minister Jeremic as a general attack on human rights, he remains on the issue of forming the Bosniak National Council to break the law and the constitution. To remind us, the work of the minister and ministry has been assessed by the trustee for equality, the information trustee and the public defender. The Commissioner for Equality concluded that it was a violation of human rights. The Information Commissioner has filed a criminal complaint against government officials for the counterfeiting of the voter's list. The citizen's protector found that the ministry did not comply with the law and the constitution. A month ago, representatives of all three lists for the national council of Bosniaks, ministry representatives and OSCE representatives met. The conclusion was reached to request the opinion of the Legislative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. How I am a member of the Legislative Committee, and how well I know that no request has come to us, or that the minister has disobeyed this conclusion. There's nothing done about it. I would like to point out that the legitimate representatives of the Bosniak national minority and only greater and as they exist. Minister Ciplic is constantly deafening about it. He talks about organising new elections because the weather conditions for it have been met. Does he reflect on the political consequences and consequences of society that his decision and attitude will cause? Did he think there might be a boycott of the election, that the election won't work? In that case, at this time, it may declare the results of the elections as they suit it, either to it or to the entire ruling majority. It's not just a attack on minority rights and human rights. I think this is a warning to the majority people because if elections for national councils are stolen in this way, and we know that a referendum for the Constitution has been stolen, we can ask ourselves and all of us what awaits us in the upcoming republican elections. Do we have to pay so dearly for the negligence and malice of a minister and perhaps the entire government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48403	The word is from Ambassador Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48404	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the end of the calendar year is certainly the right time to sum up the results in every family and every household, company, company, in every serious and orderly state, so it is a good opportunity to see what the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done in the previous period. To underline the line, you need to have some plan and program and then compare it to the results achieved. I'm interested in whether we're going into the new year soon or we're going to live again in 2010. In November 2009, Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic said -- given the key macroeconomic indicators, I believe the government's measures gave positive results and that it felt less negative about the environment of Serbia. The decline in economic activity and employment is lower compared to most developed countries, wages and pensions have not been reduced, even more realistically compared to the same period last year. The external trade deficit and current account deficit, foreign reserves and savings have been reduced significantly, the rate of the dinar is stable. I believe that today we have a more favourable starting position for the upcoming economic recovery compared to the countries in the environment. Therefore, the government's key economic policy measures in 2010 will be the reform of the state administration, which plans to reduce public expenditure through the rationalisation of a fifth of state officials. The macro-economic stability, we decided to define the key economic policy objectives by means of a mid-term reform of the budgetary system and to commit ourselves by law to respect them. We will speed up economic recovery and allow for an increase in citizens' living standards. We will take major steps towards bringing the economic and institutional system into line with the EU, which will reach our hands and formally at the end of this government's mandate, which is more important and essential, because as citizens, we will feel like we are already living in the EU. As I spoke about 2010 six months ago, the Prime Minister said, so today I can speak reliably about 2011-2012, because this is the government that has the mandate and the ability to plan and realise long-term projects of vital interest for Serbian citizens. That's what we were supposed to experience in 2010, but since nothing, I repeat, none of this has been accomplished, let's measure ourselves a little bit with the world. I have a few questions for Mr. Cvetkovic's Prime Minister: 1) How much has the state administration been reduced and how much savings are in the budget on this basis? ( 2) Why does the Government violate the Budgetary System Act, which was brought only a month and a half ago? 3) Has the standard of living increased? 4) How much did consumer prices increase in 2010? 5) How many people lost their job in 2010? 6) How many people got a job in 2010? ( 7) Has there been a fall or an increase in tax revenues? ( 8) Is spending greater than planned? 9) How much is Serbia's public debt and how much has it increased since 2009? ( 10) What is the internal and external debt of Serbia? 11) How much of the total foreign debt does the state owe, how much private sector, how many businesses, and how many banks? 12) Last year, Serbia was in the 93rd place of 133 countries, behind Montenegro and Macedonia, someone mentioned some countries earlier, unfortunately we were behind Namibia, El Salvador, Gambia, Trinidad and Tobago, Jamaica and Senegal. Where are we today? 13) The transfer of technology, based on foreign direct investment, was 81st. Where are we today? Where are we with respect to payment and productivity? 14) After macroeconomic stability, we were in 111 places. Where's Serbia today? 15) Where are we on that list at the level of budget deficits? 16) Where is the interest rate? 17) Where does it take time to start a business? 18) What is the annual inflation today, and have we experienced a fall on that list and on this parameter? 19) After the brain drain, we were 132 out of 133 countries. 20) How much has local self - government transfers been reduced by? On the list of countries that have a corruption problem, we are in 84th place, and we share that place with Lesota, Colombia, Peru and Thailand. I'm familiar with this information, so I'm not looking for an answer. Since 2008, when you started calling Europe for everyone, unfortunately, we have come to the appeal "food for everyone". In this theater of absurds, believe me, I will always rather watch Jones' bald singer than watch the bald God Djelic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48405	The word is Jorgenka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48406	I have a question for Prime Minister Cvetkovic, his vice-president, Mr Dinkic, as well as the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. The workers of the "Metal System" from Kragujevac strike in the premises of the Tax Administration, under extremely difficult circumstances, are excluded from electricity, heating and use of toilets at 2 p.m. on December 6th. The temperature in the tax administration's premises claimed seven degrees last night, without lighting and inhumane circumstances, they are ready to continue their protest, and those who murmur, please listen only to this sentence. They strike because they have nothing to lose. Their position cannot be worse than it is today. And they started with a law that envisioned initiatives and procedures not to be found in this position. They asked the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, this government and the Development Fund to review privatisation contracts and use the Fund's dedicated loan for development. Evidence that they did so in a legally prescribed manner and in good time I own and were delivered to us by the Striker's Committee. I would like to introduce the Serbian public to the fact that the property in this large chain factory, which was in the form of the social enterprise of the industry "Philip Kljajic", was privatised by the company Metal Systems on June 13th 2008. According to the sales contract, the buyer had an obligation to receive 191 employees in employment. That's the deal we have. Directly, following the takeover of workers and property on August 1st, the destruction and renovation of a number of factories within the factory, production was completely halted, started with the remonting of some machines. The largest number of workers who were taken by contract, as it said, were sent for paid leave, and only 50 people were hired to remount machinery within other production cycles in the company. By February 2009, there was somehow a payment of these profits, although they were not paid overtime, nor work at night, and not only were those obligations broken, but others also. After February, however, the payoffs became extremely messy and in February 2010 due to the ten-paying deficit, ten months of people did not receive what they earned, workers organised a strike. It was launched on February 22nd, and then with the intervention of the authorities, the minister to whom we are asking the question, Mladjan Dinkic and Mayor Veroljub Stevanovic, it came that the solution to meet the strike demands was next – that the Development Fund should give a loan of 350 million dinars and 150 million dinars in the name of funds for current jobs, and 200 million dinars, dedicated to investment, to the conclusion of the factory of large chains. The loan was released in the course and out of the million 350, as I said, only ten outstanding earnings were paid, which according to workers, is a sum of only 100 million dinars. However, after that, the profits began to be delayed, the works at the completion of the large chain factory are almost not even started, we have information that the director had mortgaged on non-existent facilities, but therefore I have no evidence, so I say I have the information I ask you to check and there are currently about 80% of the machinery in operation, but before privatisation, this factory achieved about 900 000 euros in value of production, and last year only 87,000 euros. The workers work in extremely inhumane conditions, and due to the lack of a window on the hall, it was really unimaginable to continue. It is obvious that the chain factory is not capable of any more serious production, the company is burdened with multimillion-dollar credits, wages are due for payment, and debts are extremely large. I ask the Prime Minister and the Government Ministers to examine these allegations and do what they can to preserve their jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48407	The word has an MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48408	Just to remind you that last week I asked the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office about the establishment of Moby 63 and the fact that there are no contributions to 92 million whose share of the Republic of Serbia and 39 million "Holdenhurst Holding" company, which was the founder of Moby 63. Now I again ask the question of what has been done by the Prosecutor's Office, or by the Ministry of Justice, whether an investigation has been launched to determine whether these contributions exist, and if they do not exist, to initiate an appropriate legal procedure. It's 132 million, and what's particularly problematic, as our people say, is that what the coat of arms is born doesn't make life right, so it's continued. Here I own a contract to buy a stake in Moby 63, which is made between RS and Telenor, which was bought by Moby 63. What is an indisputable fact, the contract said, in the part of the sale, that the sales price paid by the buyer for the purchase of the share of the billion and 193m euros, the purchase price, and the license fee, the cash amount of 320m euros, totalling 1.513,000 euros. Nothing, it's all right, the state of Serbia, Telenor and the NBS have made a contract where this cash amount was to be deposited into a special escrous bank account. Not to read you the whole contract, section b) says – by provision of 3.2 customers and seller have agreed to deposit a total amount of money of 1.513,000 euros, but then we come to the other side. It is said -- now that the parties have agreed, the sale of the wholesale bank's purchase price, and here it is said, point 1.2, on the day of this escort contract, that the buyer will deposit the purchase price in euro, amounting to a billion and 315m euros. Between the first and the second sides, 200m euros were lost. If you take those 132m euros, the establishment of Moby 63, the problem is 310m euros, what about them. It's particularly interesting, and that's why I'm asking the NBS to provide me with information, how much money is paid in the account number 54810-978-001, how much money is paid in this account, and I'm asking for information to whom everything from this account has been paid. I think the task is very simple, that it shouldn't represent any difficulty. Just to point out, the public is working, that some who are trying to get this information is the National Bank, although it is mandatory under the Access Information Act, avoids giving an answer. Given my experience, that is, the experience of this country that has had an unprecedented robbery in the past 10 years, I am expressing serious concern that this may be one of the biggest robberies lately, and especially given the fact that we're about to sell Telecom. If you have an undeniable fact that the same people participated in the establishment and sale of Moby 63, that the same people should be involved in the sale of Telecom, then you know what we can expect. Same unprecedented robbery. That is why I ask the MUP also to initiate the process of obtaining information or, however, to launch investigative actions when it comes to these problems regarding the establishment of Moby 63 and the sale of Moby 63 Telenors. Let me inform you that we will be asking questions, as well as in the case of "Luke Belgrade" and AD "News", until we get answers. I ask another short question – what about 17 criminal charges filed in connection with the sale of the company "News" and "Luke Belgrade"? Because if you want to deal with corruption, at least start by answering the questions that are being asked.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48409	Are any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 286? No, I don't. ) Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Miroslav Markicevic, Nikola Lazic and Milica Radovic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Ms Slavica Đukić-Dejanović, for the search in the details of the 3rd item of the agenda – the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on State Administration, in addition to the representatives of the promoter Milan Markovic, the Minister of State Administration and local self-government, invited the sittings to attend Vladna Jović, Deputy Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Slavica Stišović, Head of the Group at the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government; and as regards the hearings in the details of the 4th item of the agenda – Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Military, Working and Material Obligabilities, in addition to the Representative General Šutanovec, Minister of Defence, Minister of Defence, the Court of Defence, also called for the Court of Serbia and Taj Miscenik Mistenik, Minister of Serbia, Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Minister of Serbia, Minister of Serbia, Minister of Serbia, Minister of the Republic, Minister of the Republic, Minister of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia. We're continuing our work. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENT OF THE LAW ON THE COUNTRY OF THE COUNTRY (single) Before we move to the search in particulars of the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on State Administration, on the basis of Articles 90 and 87, I am informing Members that given the number of amendments that will be the subject of our search and search in details of the 3rd and 4th points of the agenda, if the pace of our work implies that the work can be completed by 15.00 or 15.30 hours, then there will be no pause at 14.00 hours. If during the afternoon session we realize that we will also need the afternoon part of the session, the usual break will be set at 14.00 hours. Also, before we move on to the search in detail, I remind the National Assembly of the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups on the 3rd item of the agenda: MP Djuro Peric has been authorised by a representative of the PUPS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Kasalovic of the SPS-JS, MP Milica Radovic of the DSS-Vojslav Kostunica and MP Zoran Krasic of the SRS parliamentary group. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Tomislav Nikolic, Jorvanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delic, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borisa Pelevic, Mileta Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mico Rogović, Vuceta Tošković, Dragan Colić, Aleksandar Martinović, Milica Vojić Marković, Donka Banović, Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazić, as well as amendments submitteded by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received the Government's opinion on the submission of amendments. You also received a report from the Committee on Justice and Administration, as well as a report from the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The first amendment, with correction, was filed by the Government. The Justice and Administration Committee has accepted the amendment, with a correction. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, but has not been stated on the amendment with the correction, and the amendment is subject to review. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Ambassador Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48410	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, with this, otherwise brief, draft law amending and supplementing the SRS State Administration Act, could not agree, or we have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The bill's proposal, because we believe that the bill is inconclusive, vague, and that it is not really visible who has laid down the legislation to pass a law like this. The government of the Republic of Serbia has, in reason, tried to highlight the importance of information technologies in the process of resolving the rights and obligations of legal and natural persons and someone not sufficiently addressed to this matter might think that the essence of the law is that the Government of the Republic of Serbia allows the authorities of the state administration to use computers, i.e. to use appropriate information technology, and in fact the essence of the law is something else. First of all, Mr. Minister, what has to be pointed out about this bill is that this provision is not a place in the State Administration Act, but in the General Administrative Procedure Act. In particular, Article 75a reads – State administration authority in the process of resolving rights, obligations or legal interests of a natural or legal person, i.e. other party, etc. The procedure in which the rights, obligations or legal interests of a natural or legal person or of another party are resolved by the Authority of the State Administration shall be an administrative procedure. Since it is a administrative procedure and since the Republic of Serbia already has the General Administrative Procedure Act, then it would be logical that you have made this provision, but of course you have accepted the interpretation and interpretation of the SRS, you have put the relevant member of the General Administrative Procedure Act. You didn't do it, you've defined yourself to add a new member to the State Administration Act, which was usually brought in in 2005, and so far has been changed several times. Although it was brought in five years ago, it has not yet fully lived, as the Law on Civil Servants and Peasants has not been fully revived, so now the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when it responds to that famous EU questionnaire, will have a lot of problems explaining what the administrative, or administrative capacity of the Serbian state is and whether it and such a state administration can bring out all those reforms that the EU expects from you. Otherwise, this questionnaire definitely showed that the ruling coalition's representatives were wrong when they claimed that the KIM issue and the EU issue were two completely separate processes. The questionnaire shows that's not true. One question in the questionnaire is whether the Republic of Serbia is ready and how to establish good neighbourly relations with neighbouring countries, including Kosovo? That's what it says: Kosovo. If you are not ready to establish good neighbourly relations with Kosovo, so-called Kosovo, then, means you will not meet all the criteria for EU accession. So, the thing is very simple. Don't even bother to answer a thousand of those other questions, just say that you are not ready to establish good neighbourly relations with Kosovo, so you will return this questionnaire to the European Commission before 1 February 2011, which is the date you set as the date on which you will return the completed questionnaire to whoever sent the questionnaire to you. Otherwise, when it comes to the EU questionnaire, unfortunately for you, there was someone to publish the secret documents of American diplomacy, and among other things, it is seen that the official position of France, before Serbia enters the EU, is to make it an official condition that it must recognise independence so-called. the Republic of Kosovo. Now you, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, can take all the time you want, the EU has said its position. As far as the bill itself is concerned, here, Mr. Minister, is unclear, firstly, why does this not stand in the General Administrative Procedure Act, which should stand, because it essentially refers to the general administrative procedure and the conduct of the State Administration's authorities when they resolve the rights and obligations of natural and legal persons, or other parties. That's number one. Under number two, it is completely unclear in which the process situations will be conducted by the state administration authority, as you say, to take into account and obtain data from the records, i.e. a register which, in accordance with specific regulations, is run by other public authorities, i.e. other state authorities, authorities of territorial autonomy, units of local self-government and public authorities. I must remind you, Mr. Minister, that the administrative procedure in 99% of the cases is a unilateral procedure. Therefore, there is one party in the procedure and, as a rule, administrative proceedings are conducted by either the authority of the administration to initiate administrative proceedings on its own initiative or at the request of the party. In any case, the administrative procedure cannot be initiated without the appropriate authority of the state administration. Very often, all of those elements that are necessary for the adoption of a legal and correct solution are already known to the authority of the managing authority. The tax administration, when managing a tax procedure, which is one of the types of administrative procedure, already has all the necessary data and based on these data, determines the corresponding amount of tax to be paid by the taxpayer. It is also in many other administrative procedures. The question now arises – in what situations will one state administration authority be in a position to look into some databases that it leads to in electronic form by another state administration authority? Therefore, not that authority that needs to adopt an administrative act, i.e. a solution to the administrative matter. We couldn't find out anything about it from the bill. The bill just says he's an insight. What the SRS asks is, when does he show insight? We have proposed to you, our amendment, that Article 75a reads differently from what you have suggested, by saying this way: "The authority of the state administration in the process of resolving the rights, obligations or legal interests of a natural or legal person, or other party, under official duty, in accordance with the law, shall take into account and obtain data from records, i.e. registers, which, in accordance with specific regulations, are conducted by other authorities, by other state bodies, by the authorities of the territorial autonomy units, etc. if this enables a faster and more efficient solution to the administrative matter, that is to say, if it makes it easier and more economical to obtain evidence from which a legal and correct solution to the administrative matter depends. "You have not accepted this amendment as a Government for the following reason: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that the amendment allows arbitration and subjectivity in the assessment of the body which decides whether to obtain the necessary information itself or to commit the party to it, thus making the obligation of the Authority relative and putting the party in a more unfavourable position, which is contrary to the idea of the proposed addition of the law. Also, through the tabled amendment, the government's authority was deleted to regulate the way and closer to the conditions under which insight is being made and the data from the register and registers being kept in electronic form is obtained." I must tell you, Mr. Minister, you're wrong. In some situations, it will be easier for the party to obtain any information or public documents that is conducted in an electronic database than for any other body of the state administration, authority of territorial autonomy or body of local self-government. Mr. Minister, you are going from one wrong premise, which is that the entire state administration and the entire local self-government in the Republic of Serbia is supplied with an appropriate information network. It's not. If there is a provision as proposed by you, this provision will not be applied in a number of municipalities in Serbia, not because people do not want to help the parties involved in the administrative process, but simply do not have adequate information equipment. Mr. Minister, tell me, how is it that the government's authority is going to make an insight into the electronic database in Black Treva, Shop, Babusnica or in some other municipalities that are still making administrative acts by using typewriters? It's just that people won't be able to do something like that. That's number one. Number two, how do you know that sometimes it's easier for the authority to obtain data than for the party itself. For example, at times a copy of the birth, death, marriage, or other data that is similar to that found in the parent books should be obtained. Imagine that the party in one administrative procedure is a parent and that the procedure is conducted in Subotica, and a copy of the book from Nis is to be obtained, and a man works in Nis as a parent. Do you think it's easier for him to get that information or is it easier for the authorities of the administration of Subotica? Well, it's easier for him. So you can't say in advance that it's easier for the authorities of the administration to obtain data and public documents from electronic databases. We have proposed, by amendment, that the administration authority conducts an insight and obtains public documents from these electronic databases of yours, but only if it allows for a faster and more efficient solution to administrative matters, i.e. if it makes it more economical and easier to obtain evidence from which the legal and correct solution of administrative matters depends. There's absolutely no arbitration whatsoever, no self-will whatsoever. Which of the ministers, any of the other officials running the administrative procedure, would want his administrative procedure to last longer than shorter? I guess it's also in your interest as a minister that the procedure you're conducting is shorter. I guess the head of the municipal administration is also in the interest of his proceedings being shorter, not longer. Indeed, the question arises why would any authority oblige a party to obtain data, if the authority of the administration can do so in a easier, more economical and cheaper way? So our amendment is good. What's wrong with your bill is that you don't see what kind of situation the administration's gonna be in at all in a position and in a position to obtain data from the relevant databases. Turns out, if you read your bill, that's what he has to do in every individual case. He doesn't have to. I'm telling you, in many situations, the authority of the administration already has all the necessary data and there's no need to look into any other authority's data. On the other hand, you have the authorities of the administration, above all you think of local self-government, in certain parts of Serbia people do not have adequate information equipment and this provision of the Law from the state administration will not be implemented. By the way, you, Mr. Minister, have served one, I must say by political cunning. We have laid down by our amendment that the way and the conditions under which the information contained in Article 2 is obtained and supplied, are governed by the law governing the general administrative procedure and the law governing the protection of personal data. In your original bill of law, it was said that the procedure was governed by the government act. We have made it clear to you, in the light of our amendment, that this cannot be done by the government act, because every phase and every element of the administrative procedure must be regulated by law, by the General Administrative Procedure Act, so it is prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Then you, in order not to accept the amendment of the SRS, decided to amend your original bill by erasing this provision in an indirect way that we are right. The only thing I hate about you, Mr. Minister, is that you resent the SRS parliamentary group - why didn't you have the courage to accept the amendment? It is both legal and linguistically and in agreement with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia much better than the bill that you have proposed. What continues to be a problem, of course, is that, Mr. Minister, which you often amend to the Law on State Administration, in fact you are trying to conceal a simple fact, which is many principles and strategies for reforming the state administration, which was adopted since 2004, you have not implemented in practice. We still don't have a depolitan and we don't have a largely professional state administration. Still ministerial assistants come to those positions, not in competitions, but based on a certain party membership. You have a situation in certain ministries that individual ministers have between three and 10, if not more ministerial assistants, although you made a commitment in 2004, that you would reduce the number of officials in ministries and the number of civil servants in positions. You haven't done that in five years since the State Administration Act. Of course, the problem of how you answer the EU questionnaire is not an SRS problem, it is your problem, as the government and the ruling coalition, but I am telling you, objectively you will have a problem answering... I don't know why you're looking at the clock all the time, Mr. Secretary. You have to listen to the MPs. So you'll have a problem answering those parts of the questionnaire, which concerns not only whether you're ready to establish good neighbourly relations with the so-called. Kosovo, but is our state administration compatible with EU standards? It is not compatible and the EU knows very well. If you take a report from the European Commission on the state of reform in Serbia over the past few years, you will see that the European Commission has the biggest objections in the matter of the state administration, when it comes to the agencies that you have founded since 2001, which most of the cases exist only on paper, which do nothing but take a huge part of the budget. If Mr. Minister had stayed here, unfortunately, he didn't, he's gone, I guess he's got a little bit of work to do, I'd ask him if he knows how much the agency has, for example. in the Republic of Serbia? He is the most competent and most invited to say – the agency has so much and so much and the agency deals with the team and team. I think that no one who manages the state administration in Serbia, including the minister, who is most invited to the area, knows what all agencies exist in the Republic of Serbia which laws are established, what they do and what their legal nature is. Since the minister is not here, here, I will tell this distinguished lady from the ministry, let's say at law schools students have an objective problem when they are studying administrative law, can't be adequately explained to them what the agencies are in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. They have to learn that and it's part of the mandatory literature, but it's very difficult for teachers to understand what agencies are. Imagine what it's like for students. When you carry out an analysis of all the regulations in the Republic of Serbia relating to these so-called so-called agencies, then you can see that some agencies are management agencies, that some agencies are special organizations, that some agencies are public services, and that some agencies are this fourth type of agency, so-called. public agencies. Since 2005 you have a law in the Republic of Serbia called Law of Public Agencys. Take a member of the first law, and see what the definition of public agencies is. The definition is about like this – the public agency is a public agency. There are no nearer definitions in which category of state entities it belongs. We have an objective problem with one pre-glazed, non-professional largely, politicised state administration and we have a definitely problem, you have to admit that yourself, it's already seen by the EU, the only question is when and you'll understand that, we have a problem with that so-called. agencies. In 2001, when I say you, I mean the original DOS, someone cheated on you in 2001 and told you that to make it easier for you to join the EU, accept American legal terminology. There's everything that's the authority of the state administration agencies, from what's with us ministries and special organizations, to NASA, to an organization that deals with space flights, that's all the agency in the U.S. You accepted it from us. Whenever you form a new organ, and you don't know what you're going to do with it, except you know you're going to give it money, because there are party personnel, you call it an agency. It's all about the agency in Serbia now. There must be more than 30 of them. Some agencies are even formed by sublaws of the government, contrary to the 1990 constitution and this new one from 2006. There's definitely a problem with the state administration. Even if we didn't have a problem with those so-called so-called. good neighbourly relations with Kosovo, even if we don't have a problem with crime and corruption, even if we have an ideal situation in all areas of the state, we have a bad situation in the state administration. It is one of the objective obstacles on Serbia's path, as you say, in the EU. These are their own findings, and the state of Serbia will have a problem with that. The SRS does not care that we will have a problem with the EU, but definitely that citizens living in Serbia have a problem with this and this state administration. If this whole story is added to the fact that one part of the ruling coalition is considering amending the Constitution, it is thinking that regions as forms of territorial organisation are introduced in the Constitution, so if these regions still have their own bodies of administration, administrative organisations and, in general, administrative apparatus, imagine, the distinguished lady from the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, what kind of problem will Serbia's citizens be. Poverty is growing and larger, an increasing number of people in Serbia are running out of work, young people are running from Serbia, as if the famous 1990s are still present in Serbia, and you are, instead of working to improve the state administration, essentially improving, even thinking about making the state system, when it comes to administration, even more complicated than it is, and this small Serb, which your EU friends obviously want to bring down to the borders of Belgrade Pashaluka, is not small enough for us either. Let's cut it even more, let's atomize it, let's divide it into nahiji, to spas, to regions, so that every nahiji has its own Nahi prince, so that the Nahi prince has its own officers. It's all nice, it's all great. It's in the spirit of the Ottoman Empire. That just means you're getting closer to Turkey. That's why you're getting so close to her. You regret the Turkish Zeman in Serbia, when Serbia was divided into nahih. It is that Karadjorgje fought against the nahihs and for a single Serbia, but it is not compatible with EU standards. You're compatible. You know what fancy is, what is European. Mrs. Comic, this and how it has to do with the current state in Serbia and the current state in the state administration. I assure you that there is and I assure you that there is an increasing number of parties in Serbia that are pushing for a change in the Constitution. Did you hear yesterday's press conference from these friends of yours that you saved your mandates for? Change of constitution. Have you heard Dinkic - The Change of the Constitution. You heard Vuk Draskovic - Change of the Constitution. So this has to do with the current political situation in Serbia. I'm sorry Mr. Secretary isn't here, but I'm guessing he's got a little bit of work to do. His coffee's getting cold. The state administration needs to be improved. The state administration is in poor shape, but the state administration will not improve by dealing with fiction and taking the view that there are computers in the Department of Commerce, that there are in Montenegro, that there are in Bosilegrad, that there are computers in Presevo, Medvedji etc. They're gone. So first get computers, train people to use them, and then try to introduce something called information technologies. In addition to all of this, predict what situations the authority of the administration makes its own insight into the electronic database, and in which situations the party itself does, not because of arbitration and willfulness, but precisely to facilitate the resolution of its rights and obligations in administrative proceedings, and therefore we repeat once again, this is the matter of the ZUP, not the law on state administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48411	22 minutes and 45 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. I apologize to the MP for his loud comment. I had no intention of warning you, since your discussion with the width of the context that this law implies was entirely within the framework of the Rules of Procedure. My comment concerned the fact that Karajordje was an Austrian student, that he served in the Frajkor, in Banat, which was then in Austria and that he was also part of the European tradition. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: Austria was not an EU member. ) Austria was not a member of the European Union, it is quite true. Once again, I apologize, but there was a loud comment on the comparison and reminder of Karajordje, the military skills he learned in the Frasiers in Banat. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. The People's MP, Jovan Palalic, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48412	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sorry that Minister Markovic is not here to simply discuss this important topic and try to get answers to some questions concerning the functioning of the state administration, but in general all other areas that are in the portfolio of the competent ministry. Certainly, there is no convincing explanation why we are discussing this issue today. Simply, when you look at a series of problems that exist in the functioning of the state administration, when you look at a series of problems that exist in the functioning of local self-government within this ministry, then the issue of electronic communications within the state administration, the acquisition of a list of issues in which the state administration is located in terms of technical equipment, is absolutely not a subject. This is not a topic for the National Assembly at this time, and it may well be the subject of discussion in some future period. What needs to be a subject and what we need to deal with is the issue not only of the functioning of the state administration, but also of the realisation and adoption of the laws necessary to complete the system of state administration and local self-government, in order to implement constitutional provisions, in order to implement the 2004 state administration strategy and to see how the laws adopted are implemented. Here we are now facing problems, behold wonders, I do not know who put together this questionnaire which the European Commission has asked Serbia, but these issues that are here have been defined as issues that the MPs, who have criticised the work of the government and the ministry, have repeatedly raised for the past two and a half years. This is now a topic that we need to discuss how to overcome the problems involved in the functioning of the state administration, which have been detected through these issues, whether or not it will give a positive opinion based on the response to be delivered to the European Commission. Certainly, the state of government and other areas will not be the main reason for Serbia to get a positive or negative opinion, but it will be, as in most cases, anything concerning Serbia and its European integration, a political reason. Therefore, we do not have any ambition to provide the answers the government will give, we expect a positive negative opinion from the point of view of the quality of these answers. It will, for sure, concern Serbia's policies concerning Kosovo's status and the Metohija and NATO integration. This will depend on the European Commission's response. Let's go back to what's in this questionnaire and what's actually showing the state of government. It would be an opportunity to try to get answers from the minister – what are the reasons why what was the government's programme in 2008 and what was the ministry's obligation? The part relating to the state administration and local self-government in this questionnaire is addressed to very many issues, and they concern both the functioning of the state administration and the issues related to the legal framework for the functioning of the state administration and the position of employees in the state administration. When it comes to local self-government, in addition to the basic position, it relates to the financing of local self-government and to the fulfilment of some important constitutional provisions concerning local self-government, it is a public property. The question that we have repeatedly asked here is when will the implementation of the legislative initiative of the law on the fulfilment of what is defined by the state administration strategy be completed? Today we are discussing a technical change, something that is a matter of the future, and not solving problems at this point, and we do not have a key important law regarding the resolution of these issues that are trying to edit them here electronically. It's the general administrative procedure law. What about passing a law on general administrative procedure? We went wrong here. First, the Law on Administrative Disputes was passed. The law, which has been criticised by the DSS and through the submission of amendments and through a principled debate, analysis of these provisions and in this annual report submitted to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has been defined so as not to comply with European standards. The question arises, as the big bells of the law are announced, how will the government now remove all that we have said, unrelated to what the EU has told you that the law is not accompanied by the real needs of citizens and the protection of their fundamental rights? Instead of the adoption of the general administrative procedure law, this law has been passed which requires a series of further amendments, and probably quickly, when the government makes some action plan on the annual report, we will be faced with changes instead of accepting the DSS amendment, when we have submitted them this year. The issue that is also in the domain of the strategy, the first thing, was not passed by a law on general administrative procedure. Furthermore, the issue of depoliticalism as a very important principle of the state administration reform strategy. A colleague Martinovic spoke here, that is an important question. Since 2007, we have faced a number of amendments to the laws that extend the obligation to call competitions in certain ministries and elections, in particular, ministerial assistants based on competitions. It was a key way to depolitise the state administration, but now the issue of government reconstruction is being raised, reducing ministers as one demagogue parol, and for three years, the government does not want to do the essential thing and take a fundamental step in depolitisation, which is to call competitions and select government officials by competition, based on quality skills rather than political similarity. We have a situation for certain ministers to say - I don't need six assistants in my sleep either, but he imposed a coalition agreement on me. Question for the Ministry – does the Ministry have the will, does it have the strength and will it do so to end the competition and to elect ministerial assistants who are not party figures, but to choose on the basis of competitions as defined by the law? It's an essential matter if we want to talk about the state administration reform strategy. Next, we don't have a law that defines the position of employees in local self-government. We've had a discussion here about the reduction, the fact of the reduction, the law is called the State Administration's maximum number of employees and local self-government, and we don't have their working-law status defined before that. This was an essential obligation of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government to the Law on Working Relations in State Authorities as an anatomical law to overcome and pass a law that would effectively define their position. These people are now in complete legal uncertainty which has shown the adoption of these laws which, by the way, was not a proposal from your ministry that was bound by it, but by the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, which has nothing to do with this matter. This is really unclear and the minister did not give us an answer why he did not defend the law and why he did not put forward his strategy to address the problem of local employees. In addition, the questionnaire raises the question of how both local and local employment is carried out and how the progress and evaluation of the results of the work is carried out. Here, we can tell you now, and most ministers, if they want to be honest, how they've reduced the number of employees. By party membership. The cut was according to that criterion, not according to the quality of work and everything else. The issue of local self-government is I think something that the minister will hardly be able to face objectively and concretely in response to this famous questionnaire from the European Commission. The question of the financial position of local self-government is raised. The question is whether local self-government is financed in accordance with their real needs? We all know what the Ministry of Finance and the government was doing here when it reduced the transfer funds. The question is, what was the Ministry of State Administration doing and the local self-government systemically responsible for the position of local self-government? Nothing. You are now being announced at this assembly of permanent conference cities and municipalities that 25% of these funds will be returned. Gentlemen, apply the law. meet RS laws and return the total amount intended under the Law on Local Self-Government, not to crumbs and churches to local self-governments to return what belongs to them under the law. It is said here – the question of the demarcation of state and local property. It is just amazing that such a question is raised in Serbia where only state property exists. They have some social property miners in some companies that have not yet been privatised, but the state property under the 1995 Law is the only one. We are now opening a debate, a ruling coalition and some other parties, on the amendment of the Constitution, and we have not implemented a constitutional provision on public property. In 2006, the Constitution defined the concept of public property, local, regional and state. Where's the law on public property? Why don't you pass a law on public property? On the Committee on Local Self-Government, we heard from the Secretary of State who says it will be passed when the restitution law is passed. Whether it will also be brought when it will be brought and how it will be defined, by this time what local self-government or autonomous province needs to be unable to fulfil their constitutional obligations. Some local self-governments should fail. How are you going to answer this question? We don't have the property of local self-government. Why don't we have it? We don't have the law. Why didn't you pass the law? Who's to blame why there's no law on local property? That's the key questions. It is further said in the questionnaire – whether there is a detailed plan for the transfer of power to local self-government. As a steam that has become something that becomes degutant in the public -- a story about decentralisation, we do not have any concrete plan in which the government of the Republic of Serbia wants to strengthen the position of local self-government. What is the fundamental plan of decentralisation? Taking their money, not giving them back their property? Then someone's saying decentralisation is regionalization. It doesn't matter. Those of you who talk about it return the money, return the property, then talk about regionalization, some other arrangements, about the state planning of RS. That's the problem with contradiction, not to say in dishonesty. Anything that's in the function of a political parole of getting votes is thrown out of the parole. concrete work, no practice applied. Local self-governments are the guinea pigs of this government, and that is to be said and seen specifically through these issues that are being asked here. The question relating to the training of civil servants is the question we asked in the debate when the State Administration School Agreement in Danilovgrad was ratified. Serbia didn't have the strength to be in Belgrade, but rather in Danilovgrad, with all due respect to Danilovgrad and Montenegro, but I don't think their progress in the state administration can be measured by what was done in Serbia. How will you respond to how the training of civil servants has been organized over the past three years? That's very interesting, because we ratified that agreement at the end of last year or early this year. The government office that deals with state personnel has not delivered any reports to the Assembly. We know who is training there, but what is it, what is the plan of personnel within the Government of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to civil servants? The most important issue is the issue of co-ordination as a key issue of realising any policy. Gentlemen of the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government, if you want to run a system policy in the field of state administration, you need to coordinate all aspects of this policy, regardless of what individual segments are held in other ministries. You cannot have the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development determining the number of employees in the state administration and local self-government. You can't have the Ministry of Finance determining whether or not they're going to be left with some poor local self-government by taking their money. The Centre of Local Self-Government Coordinates must be at the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government or at the end of the line in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It's a complete absence of coordination and it's a fundamental question and a problem why it doesn't work. The question of how local staff are trained to create projects and implement potential funds from the IPA funds is a special topic. I don't think 70% of local self-government is capable of writing a project, and you had to do it. You're talking about European integration, about how big money will come to us, and people don't know how to write a project. It's a real state, no one taught them. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, you will have a great deal of trouble writing answers to these questions. That's your problem. You didn't listen to what we told you when they were discussing these issues, but you're mostly dealing with these things, not with these parolees. Bring the law on general administrative procedure. Bring the law on the position of employees in local self-government. Fulfill the provisions and strategies and reforms of the state administration and make the state administration effective in the interests of citizens and the interests of the Serbian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48413	15 minutes and 30 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The People's Parliament of Snow White Sedlar has been reported. Do you want a word? You have 28 minutes at your disposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48414	This mentions a great increase in bureaucracy mentioned here, and it is in the draft platform for regionalization of our party G 17 plus i.e. United regions of Serbia. I just wanted to point out first of all because of the citizens of Serbia that they are not afraid, that it is just a draft platform for the United Regions of Serbia, that what I see as a graduate lawyer, and that I am also a folk MP during the campaign that I have every day and I visit citizens and municipalities, especially according to Vojvodina, that citizens of this country are very interested that the fact that we are being imputed does not mean any increase in the administration, an increase in the number of civil servants. On the contrary, the matter is the other way round. It is about full decentralisation, the regionalisation of Serbia, which is more than necessary. If I didn't talk about the United Regions of Serbia's Draft Platform right now, we have it on our website. At any moment, we can make an effort to make some public listening on that subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48415	One minute and 58 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic has been reported. (Alexander Martinovic, from the place: Replica. You have no right to a replica. National MP Snow White Serdar called for dialogue. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: How do I participate in the dialogue? I have time for a parliamentary group. ) It is your will whether you participate in the dialogue or not. What she calls for dialogue is not a reason for replication. That's desirable, and that's what everyone needs to say. You have no right to a replica. National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48416	Mrs. Komic, since I will speak within the time of the SRS parliamentary group, not to repeat what Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic said in this opening presentation, explaining this amendment, the necessity to accept its amendment to amendments and amendments to the State Administration Act to illustrate some examples of practice. I am witnessing that many parties in the process cannot rely solely on the authority of the state administration to resolve their disputes more effectively. That's what he was talking about from his point of view, Mr. Palalic. We cannot ignore the fact that we are still not an information society in the 21st century that has so advanced that every municipality in the local self-government unit, the local community and any one who is obliged to deliver to the authority of the state administration in an administrative procedure conducted by a particular document and is able to do so at the request of that authority within an effective time-limit to be in the function of the rapid completion of the procedure. What for, Mrs. Comic? Because of the fact that we have a very difficult situation first when it comes to our countrymen being exiled from the occupied kiM. A decision by the government of the Republic of Serbia following the occupation and arrival of the NATO Pact in 1999, when unfortunately hundreds of thousands of Serbs had to escape from their centuries-old hearths, administrative centres of administrative districts that are under occupation were moved to a number of cities in Serbia. Thus, the administrative district of the administrative center of Pec was moved to Kragujevac and so on, in Vranj, Nis and Kralje. Now we really have a problem, because I am dealing specifically with it, when as a MP, I want to help a party who has a dispute, to solve it with the authorities of the state administration, that the document that is that party, which is a person who has been exiled with KIM, is quickly and effectively needed, and the government authority does not obtain it in time. I want as Mr. Martinovic predicted this amendment, to help it, or the party, but apparently I am a minister and the government had no understanding of it. The General Administrative Procedure Act, mentioned by Mr Palalic, in many ways would solve all these problems. Today we are 20 years after the separation, or establishment of a state administration that was established before the elections you spoke of today, the first multi-party Constitution of 1990, which was brought before that on September 28th, where we moved from that socialist model of self-government to the state administration and local self-government gained legal status. Now we can't do it the way it is because of the efficiency of the process, and from the experience of the people, Mr. Martinovic suggested we help because the government didn't want to. This argument which has been given that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the amendment allows arbitration, as incorrectly written, and subjectivity in the assessment of the body which decides whether to obtain the necessary information itself or to impose on the party, which makes the obligation of the Authority relative and puts the party in a more unfavourable position, which is not true at all. Just through this one example I told you that you were wrong, that I am not talking about the fact that Mr Martinovic also spoke about, that you have municipalities in Serbia that barely have any computer models and are barely functionally capable of working. Tell me, please, can the party that needs to obtain a document in the authority of the local self-government in Black Treva expect it to be dealt with effectively and quickly? Either in the local community of Krina Feia, or in the Shop, and so I go in order, where it happens very often, I don't know about Minister Markovic, he's not here, so I can't take it out, but that many ministers who are in charge of the functioning of the government's body, in fact every ministry is the authority of the state administration and they didn't step foot in these places that I counted during my term. Therefore, it is illusory to say that the party is placed in a more unfavourable position and that this is such an insurmountable argument of the Government. There's no minister here to further support our arguments, because this doesn't stand. It's really a lie. It says - which is contrary to the idea proposed by the law supplement. The very idea of the law being complemented in this way is not good. We know very well that the authorities of the state administration do not function, firstly in accordance with the constitutional system and the political arrangement of the Republic of Serbia. Minister Markovic, who is the legislator of this law and who manages the resolution of state administration and local self-government, although according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is a member of 136 that regulates the position of state administration, is not in the situation, and very often in many cases that he decides on his own, or that his position before the authorities of the state administration is explicitly held to the end, but changes it in line with the current political conflict within the ruling coalition. Most often, not only him but also the other ministers, on the orders of the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic, who has fully exercised the concentration of power in his presidency and role, so that we have 20 years after the first multilateral elections in Serbia, we have a very ugly picture of what the legislative authority is, or the Assembly, and which branches it has fallen to and under whose patronage, not the Government, but the President of the Republic of Serbia, without talking about the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the fact that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is not only under the direct management stick of Boris Tadic, but through him, these mentors from abroad, or the EU, which is now telling you, and Mr Martinovic, is asking questions – how far has it come with the improvement, with the quality and position of officials in the state administration? Have they, in this questionnaire of this European Commission, instructed you to respond, qualified and experiencedly trained to do this job, because they came to those places on the political line. When a few years ago, and it seems to me to me at the end of 2008, Mr Todorovic presented the information that instead of 8,000 officials in the authorities of the state administration, how much you found coming to power after this five-octobaric coup in 2000, you now employed 29,000, you said that it was not true, that he was hyperbolizing and inventing some data, etc. This is now the data on the state administration's staff bodies by structure, how many are permanent, and how many, according to temporary contracts, etc., which have these EU mentors against which the SRS, and I am confident that time is passing, and an increasing number of Serbian citizens will be against the EU. Which is why, it is not their intention just to bring you down into their own frameworks when it comes to the state administration that we are discussing here today, but to change the constitution that was most broadly agreed upon in 2006. Why do they have a spokesman in the image of Nikolic and the like, but he is now the biggest when it comes to File and these others who do not want Serbia well? Not to change the constitution due to rationalisation, due to the reduction of the number of MPs because it is necessary, and in the right sense of the word it is a farce and we can open the debate and on the issue of how much Serbia's territory, as electoral laws have changed, began this 9 December 1990, which was majority, and thus combined, and so on, but because of the preamble. They don't care how many ministries Serbia will have and whether it will have instead of 250, 125 MPs. To them it is important that those who serve the Americans and the Western forces, which are now more extreme than Tadic, which is Tomislav Nikolic, make a change to the constitution because of a preamble that says KiM is an inalienable part of Serbia. I'm going back.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48417	National MPs, fully understanding the breadth of the topic, still on the agenda, Article 106(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48418	As for the functioning of the state administration, according to this, as the law and the Constitution have been established, the administrative environments have just been observed. You cannot function as a local self-government, which is in function, therefore, to resolve this process and help parties in the dispute, to improve by defending some regions that are indeed in a political sense just a step towards a new republic, an autonomous province, etc. The functioning of the local self-government bodies, which serve to effectively resolve these disputes, can only be improved if you give them economic independence. But how is it that, even though the Constitution was passed in 2006, we still haven't passed a law that will sanction and regulate the rights and obligations of local self-government units and how do they have the property? Of course, they can't even have the words legally, because they have something they use from the Government of the Republic of Serbia's Property Directorate. But, for example, who in Kragujevac will sanction or in another city in Serbia a unit of local self-government, that is, a body that is required to care according to the Constitution and based on its powers about the property, when we do not have a law on it? All of these are major issues and regrettable images of Serbia when it comes to the state administration, which, I repeat, is precisely 20 years ago defined by the 1990 Constitution. Finally, in that spirit as you started, Mrs. Komic, when you reminded today that the right multi-party parliamentary elections were held in Serbia, I will only remind you that in these elections, too, Professor Vojislav Seselj, as a candidate of a group of citizens, because at that time we were unable to register our party "Serbian Chetnic Movement", because of only one presentation and only one presentation of 45 minutes on state television won the trust of 96,000 Serbian citizens. I believe that by returning to Serbia, which we expect soon, it will make this trust a million-dollar, or multimillion-dollar, because Serbia needs such changes and such a leader who, in a responsible manner, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, will pave the way for free Serbia, not those who obey the requirements that come from the EU and all those who do not wish well for Serbia and the Serbian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48419	13 minutes of MP time was used. The word has been given by MP Mirko Cikiriz, followed by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, and then by MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48420	I will just say for the sake of the public that, of course, we have supported the full reform of the state administration, that all this is done and these amendments to the law, in terms of a single database, change in the direction of easier and more efficient extraction of all necessary, primarily the parent books of born, dead, citizenship, etc., of course everything will be in the interest of the Serbian citizens. Here, several times, as part of all reforms under the state administration, there was also a mention of the change in the Constitution and mentioned our position to change the constitution, but with the illusion that the SPO with some other parties had worked with its demand for regionalisation of Serbia, to decentralise Serbia in some way and to break state unity or state territory. In that sense, I would like to say that there are also stenograms in the National Library of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that suggest that whenever society went in the direction of modernization, etc., there were those who called for traditional values, Serbian patriotism, conservativeism and, of course, they were against change. So, when a state railway was introduced first in Serbia, there were then MPs who believed that a "black devil" would sit in the locomotive that would burn forests and countries and property where the railways would pass, there were MPs who asked that Serbia's Lekarska society be made aware of whether it was good for the health of the population to drive at a speed of 30km per hour, when the walk moves at a speed of 5km per hour. It was similar with the introduction of state water systems, when many MPs felt that the "black snakes" would dry our springs and that we would run out of water. Likewise today, 450 regions are in EU countries. One single region did not secede, even where there were really long-standing secessionist aspirations, such as Spain or Italy. In Italy, we have in both the north and the south for hundreds of years a desire to cut down these areas, but to compare the nahi, the spas, the bananas, or what is in the countries of Europe through their history, such as lordships, countys, etc., with today's regions, that means that we compare that time and those circumstances with today's times and circumstances, and that means that everyone who works so completely missed the topic. What is the desire of the SPO is that today's big difference in Serbia's development, which is the largest in Europe, has proved everywhere that regionalisation, along with changes and financial laws, with the return of property to municipalities and cities, has brought stability to the region's competence. This is what the SPO wants with changes to the Constitution, that the country develops uniformly, and that we get state stability and state unity, and nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48421	Three minutes and 30 seconds of the parliamentary group's time has been used. I ask the MPs that, by defaulting on the breadth of the topic, we still understand that we are bound by Article 106(1) and the obligation to talk about the agenda, what is allowed once, is allowed to each other's MP, but the subject is to amend and supplement the Law on State Administration and Amendments, i.e. a search in particular. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48422	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, since Mrs. Sedlar invited me to dialogue, I am indeed very pleased to respond to that call and I am really ready and the SRS is ready to participate in the dialogue on Serbia's state-law and political order. Here's a few words on the subject. First, it is not true that dividing Serbia into regions does not mean increasing the administrative apparatus. Your best example is the AP Vojvodina. By 2002, you had seven regional secretariats. Today there are 18, with a tendency to further increase. With an increase in the number of regional secretariats, you have, of course, an increase in the province's administration in a personal sense, which is now three to four times more numerous than it was in 2002. The Statute of Vojvodina, which is largely against the constitution and which you voted at the end of last year, was confirmed by you from the ruling coalition here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, did it improve the lives of the people of Vojvodina? Do the citizens of Novi Sad, Sremska Mitrovica, Vrbas, Odzaci, Kickindi, Somboru, Subotics, Pancheva live better because they have 18 regional secretariats? Can peasants now sell their products more easily? Do they have enough money to buy new tractors, whether they have workers in your Odjaks, who are completely devastated, better status since you adopted the Statute of Vojvodina, or everything else is the same, or even worse than it was. We don't need to change the Constitution, gentlemen. We need to change the corrupt and incompetent authorities. If we're going to change the constitution whenever someone from the ruling coalition comes to mind with a new political idea, then every year we're going to change the Constitution. Think about the credibility of the state in international relations. What kind of state we are that brings to the Constitution in 2006, this Constitution hasn't even been implemented in the fullest sense of that word, and now after four years, let's change it. Let's do it, so if the practice shows in the next five, 10 or 20 years, that really some powers from the Constitution should be changed, the SRS is ready to be involved. Changing the constitution to divide Serbia, the SRS will never agree. The idea of the first Serbian uprising, the idea of all major Serbian politicians, from Karadjordz, Prince Milos, Jovan Ristic, Nikola Pasic, to this day is to make Serbia a single state. We had these regions, that Mrs. Comic didn't understand in the best possible way when, after I finished my presentation, she made one remark that Karadjordje was some kind of Austrian student, although I don't know what that means, because at the time, Austria didn't even exist. Austria has been as a state-law term since 1867. Karadjorge raised the uprising in 1804 and was executed by the godfather in 1817. So, about 50 years later, it became Austro-Hungarian. This is about the following, all these great Serbian statesmen and politicians, working to make Serbia a single state. Before the Karadjordj's uprising, we had a division of Serbia into the nahih, so each nahih had its own prince, who had the right and obligation to collect taxes on behalf of the Turks and to hand the tax over to the Turks. This consisted of the Serbian autonomy before Karadjordje, which was not charged by the Turks, but by the lords of the Turkish account. The whole of Serbia, I mean the Belgrade Pashaluk, that was then Serbia, was divided into several nahiji. With his sword, Karadjordje cut that division of Serbia into nahiji and said, "No more nahiji," we are fighting for a single Serbian state. He began to send emisars to the towns of Serbia, outside Belgrade, to Montenegro, Dalmatia, BiH. It was the idea of Karadjorgia, not to go back to the Turkish Zeman, to divide Serbia into nahih. Who'd she bring a share of anything good to? How do you think these regions work, Mrs. Sedlar, if there is no administration to deal with these regional affairs? Just take an example of Vojvodina, we have a state administration, and then you have a circuit board, and then you have a local one in municipalities and cities, and now you want to have a regional administration. I ask you, who will pay for all this, from which, who, from pre-accession EU funds, you will settle the administration, from workers who have lost their jobs, from peasants who have no one to sell milk and meat, because you import pork halves from Brazil. Excuse me, who's going to finance this state project of yours? Even if he's not threatening the state unity, and he's threatening, who's gonna pay for it, what's it cost? Do you have any precise receipts, all of which will be paid for? We are already squirming with this and this state organisation, and imagine still dividing Serbia into five, six or ten regions. Some people won't get enough of that either. In the Serbian people there is, unfortunately, I must say, one tendency that we are prone to deobs. What now, the one there in Subotica, that lives better than I do, let's set up a Berlin Wall between Saturday and kickinda, we're prone to it. Why warm up these negative tendencies that exist in certain parts of Serbia, why fight Serbia with itself? If you follow the exposure of people who advocate regionalization, what is the conclusion? The person who lives in Leskovac is guilty of being a Belgrade citizen because he has a hard time living. The one who lives in Ivanjica is the one from Novi Sad. Now we start accusing each other. You're robbing us. We return to what we had in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, when the Croats accused the Serbs of robbing Croatia, although the First Savings Centre headquarters was in Zagreb, not Belgrade, and the entire financial capital was in Zagreb, not Belgrade. Then the Croats, their entire political movement, built on how Belgrade exploited them. After 60-70 years, we go back to the same story. It is Belgrade's fault that the one in Leskovac is having a hard time living, it is Belgrade's fault that the one in Mali Ijos is having a hard time living. No, it's the government's fault. Let's change power. It is your fault, you who have been leading Serbia since 2000, you who said in 2000 that we were entering the EU in 2004, so when Boris Tadic won 2004, you said, we enter in 2007, so you said, we enter in 2009, and now he said, we enter in the next 10 years. We should wait 10, 20, 50, 100 years to enter this promised political paradise on earth to make us feel better, and we will change the Constitution, because someone has come to think of changing the preamble from the Constitution of Serbia, that it does not say that KIM is an integral part of Serbia, so that in addition to the preamble, we will be able to reduce the number of MPs, so that not all parts of Serbia, including KIM, are not even represented, so we will divide Serbia into regions and then tell me, where is the end of this Serbia's dismemberment, is there any end? Will we live better when we have 10 new regions? The Duke's example showed it the best way. We need able power, state power, unsuspecting power. When we have it, because we don't have it now, then the one in Leskovac, Nis, the one in Belgrade and Novi Sad will live well.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48423	Eight minutes and 50 seconds of MP time were used. The People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojević has the word, and the Messenger of Snežana Sedlar.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48424	The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, is in my hand the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and I have two editions, both written in Cyrillic, and Cyrillic is not a very complicated letter, it has 30 letters. This fundamental ignorance of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, even reporting for discussion by certain MPs, speaks more about these MPs, their political idea, the option, than about the law on the agenda today. I really do not understand the MPs who did not read the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, did not look at the preamble of that constitution, and especially because they did not read the fifth part that says – the regulation of the authorities, and then it seems to them that this country was managed by someone on the side, that they were breaking the Constitution, so it seems that at a time when they did not manage, but ruled this country, that honey and milk were at that time, the milk was sour, and the honey was not, and then as the main argument for improving the situation in the country, they saw only – what – their return to power. As soon as they return to power, as soon as the citizens of Serbia show confidence, all the problems in this country will be resolved. I thank the budget that the DS will manage this country for 10 years, as you say, manage and rule for 20 years or 10 years, and I will only remind you, we took responsibility for the management of this country in 2008. Thank you for predicting your weakness and inability to make some changes, so you can see us in power by 2018. I must tell you, it is not up to you to decide, the citizens of this country in the free democratic elections, which happened for the first time in Serbia today.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48425	People's MP, on the agenda, please, Article 106(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48426	When we talk about the agenda, I really didn't understand the amendments my colleagues talked about, I just understood that the Constitution bothered them, that they didn't understand the order of the government, who appointed the Prime Minister, who put the government, and that's what they said in their discussion and only those allegations of their political opponents in this room I'm trying to answer. So I didn't understand any of your amendments. I didn't understand the essence of your criticism of this law, just as the citizens of Serbia didn't understand. I show my incomprehension in this hall, the citizens of Serbia show this misunderstanding in the elections. You, I remind you, do not cross the censorship across Serbia in the local elections. So this mutual misunderstanding of both citizens and mine is worthy of having to answer that I did not understand your amendments and your criticism of this law, but I understood that for all the bad that is happening to this country it seems to you that the people are guilty. If you can't change yourself, try to change the people, but I think it's a very difficult job.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48427	Five minutes and 15 seconds of MP time were used. The word is a folk letter from Snow White Sedlar. Time is available for 26 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48428	With a respected colleague, Martinovic, whom I really respect, especially as far as his profession is concerned, I agree in his last position, which is that only in Serbia must there be such a government that is truly professional, competent and unsullied. We absolutely agree here. You obviously didn't understand us. I'm not going to argue with you right now about something that's just in shape. However, in order to make it easier for Serbian citizens, I would argue that citizens across Serbia do not say that they are guilty of Belgrade because they live badly, or in Vojvodina that they are guilty of Novi Sad. But one thing is, statistics are a fact, which is that the town of Novi Sad had a population inflow of about 45% per capita and is the first in Serbia and the city of Belgrade has 30%. That's why we have a new sedation and Belgrade, because of the state structure that's absolutely centralized. As for my municipality, to return to it, it is not devastated, it is by statistical category another category by development, although in the 1980s it was one of the most developed, be sure, Mr Martinovic, check out, one of the most developed economic municipalities in Vojvodina. I know best when I'm traveling at five o'clock in the afternoon, I'm going to Novi Sad or Belgrade, which column of the vehicle I'm meeting from the opposite direction, because everything else that's been able to do has gone to Novi Sad. However, things are changing and I can tell you right now, and you've been absolutely in power for a very long time in the Odjaks municipality, things have really changed in the last year and a half, as I told a gentleman from the opposition party, and at the moment the Odjaks municipality is one big construction site, from the gasification that is being introduced, from the roads that are being made, from the industrial zones that end and from the investors that we bring.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48429	Two minutes and 15 seconds of MP time were used. Before continuing to work on the search in detail, let me inform you that part of our today session of 12.00 hours from the gallery of the Great Hall of the National Assembly is followed by a group of students of the Faculty of Security from Belgrade, and that: Vladimir Milojević, Snezana Marković, Tanja Radačić, Milos Spasenović, Dalibor Sekulić, Ana Špijnović, Tamara Obučina, Jelena Banović, Simeon Spasojević, Danica Ćirković, Katarina Žeradjanin, Gorica Aleksandrović, Dijana Mitrović, Ana Mandić, Djurja Lakić, Branka Đukić, Milena Šumarac, Jovana Ćić, Biljana Glišić, Miloš Ralević, Goran Radmilović, Jelana Radmirović, Marija Marinković, Dijana Simonović, Marko Šilović, Marko Filipović, Marko Žaljanjić, Slavanić, Slavić, Slavić, Slavić, Slavić, Slavić, Slavić, Slavić and Slavić, Slavić, Slavo Slav. Welcome to your house, to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48430	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as regards the presentation of the distinguished champion of the Five-Octobar Revolution, it's perfectly acceptable and it's humane to admit that man doesn't understand anything. He doesn't even have to understand the amendment to the SRS. Mr Milivojevic, the Faculty of Law in Belgrade is not far away, you have very good literature there, so buy some textbook and some manual and I think that once you get into the essence of legal matter, it will be perfectly clear to you that our amendment is very good. Of course, I don't want this topic, which is very serious and which really deserves huge attention not only from the political but also from the professional public, to bring down this daily-political drinking who was as much in power as there is percentage, who is where he won some local elections, etc. I just want to say the following, when it comes to these statistics that Mrs. Sedlar was tampering with. Mrs. Sedlar, unfortunately, and yours and mine, I'm not happy about it at all, but at the moment the Ojaci municipality is a municipality from which a citizen of that municipality is moved from every day to day, and never returns to that municipality. So, it's a municipality that's unfortunately doomed to extinction. These zones of yours, industrial parks, honey and milk only run on television. In practice, there's nothing. I've been to Odjac municipality, Mrs. Sedlar, you know that very well, many times. I also participated in this local campaign at the beginning of this year, and I saw the state of the Odjaks municipality, not because of the SRS, not because of you personally, but objectively what is the situation. The situation is difficult, and for the citizens of Odzac municipality, the citizens of Kickinda, the citizens of Montenegro, the citizens of Valjevo, Loznica, Sremska Mitrovica, Novi Sad and Belgrade will not be better off if we share Serbia. Let's arrange for Serbia to be a serious state, not to be everything it has now, and what they have apostropheded even your great friends from the EU. I'm sorry, I don't know if you're reading these EU reports. They have been quite defeating for power in Serbia, for all the ruling furniture since 2000. Crime, corruption, riding, not functioning by institutions, does not exist in the right sense of the word rule of law, and a poor judicial reform has been carried out. That's not what the SRS says, and don't get upset about it, that's what those of you who want to get in say. They gave a devastating picture of you. Also, you can make, I don't know what kind of language, political, logical and mental acrobatics you've been in power since 2008, that you've been in power since 2010, you can even say that you're not in power at all, that the SRS is still in power, but historical and political facts are inexorable. You have been in power since 2000 and you have done nothing good for the citizens of Serbia from 2000 to 2010. Now that you've seen that there's nothing left to sell, except for Telecom, when you've got the Emperor to the duvar, when there's nothing left to sell since Serbia's quick entry into the EU, which Boris Tadic admitted, now you've only got left -- let's share Serbia. Let's try to fool the citizens of Serbia by convincing them that they will be better off when they are divided, when regional red tape decides on their fates. It's the last straw of salvation you've ever taken. We say from the SRS - it's not a solution. It's not a solution to changing the Constitution. It is not a solution to the division of Serbia. Let's strengthen Serbia, to make Serbia a single state, to return in full terms to KIM, to end the occupation of KIM, to help Serbs who stayed in occupied Republika Srpska, in Republika Srpska. Let Serbia be a queen again, not the last state in the Balkans. We are now in the line of Albania, although we have always been better than Albania. It's your fault that you've been ruling Serbia for ten years. The fact is there is a strong tendency to change Serbia's constitution. Serbia's constitution would also change those who would hand over Ratko Mladic by 10m euros, Serbia's constitution would also change those who would hand him over for free, because it is in line with EU standards... (President: National MP, according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly at this time, an act is more important than the content that deviates from the provisions of Article 106, so I ask you on the subject of the agenda. I'll finish. So, the amendment to the SRS is good. The SRS amendment respects Serbia's social and political reality. The SRS amendment only makes it clear to the government of the Republic of Serbia that this is the matter of the Law on General Administrative Procedure, not the Law on State Administration, and calls on the Government of the Republic of Serbia to focus some of that money on buying computers to those municipalities that do not have it in a non-domestic way. I don't know what's incomprehensible about it, and I don't know what's incomprehensible about it. After all, I don't know what's anti-European about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48431	Five minutes and 45 seconds used by the MP's group. National MP Milan Rangelovic wants to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48432	Thank you for that word. I must point out the violation of the 107, or dignity of the National Assembly, or dignity of each of us. Indeed, in the previous speech, and in the last speech of my colleague, who last spoke, we listened for more than 10 minutes to a bunch of lies, a bunch of what really offends the dignity of each of us. How can we talk about the 21st century, how can we talk about the future of our country, and you justify your speech to us with arguments from the beginning of the 19th century? Please, no more Turks in Serbia, no more collecting taxes here for another country, for some sultan, taxes are collected primarily for our country. You're saying someone in Serbia wants to share Serbian citizens. Please, it really deeply offends even me personally, not to tell all of us MPs. How can you say that I and any of my colleagues want to share Serbian citizens, how can you say that anyone shares Serbia at all? If we are talking about regions, then we are talking about that Serbia is as it has reached its limit, its capacity and administrative and political. If I tell you that in eastern Serbia we have less than half a million inhabitants, and you say that this system should remain, then there's something fat wrong. If southern Serbia is impoverished, if eastern is empty, if Belgrade is overpopulated, then I guess we all have to agree together how we're going to change it, because we're talking about all this for free if our border areas of Serbia are empty, we're talking about it for free if young people leave their hometowns looking for their chance, looking for their job in Nis, Novi Sad, Belgrade, it doesn't matter. It's not Belgrade's fault. The citizens of Belgrade are not to blame anyone. Don't twist what we're saying. Simply, the system is such that we had to introduce a new topic, and you are now deliberately trying to abuse it politically. I would simply ask you to go back to the topic, go back to our agenda, and not to drag regions and someone's platform into something that's about this topic, like something that's directly wrong, right or I don't know how you can connect it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48433	Two minutes. National MP, there is no injury to a member who threatens the dignity of the National Assembly. If you want, you can see in the stenogram that every MP had rights, in which he wants to explain the topic on the agenda, to do so, no matter what policy he represents within the political party he belongs to or the political group he belongs to in the Serbian Parliament. Every MP, when it was estimated to be away from the topic, was asked to return to the agenda and each of the MPs did so, so I ask you, no matter what I know, to amend and supplement the Law on the State Administration, the definition makes it difficult for me, first, to have a job for all of us to stick to Article 106, to really try to do it for each other. Minister Milan Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48434	Thank you. Since we're still at Article 1, if there were a few questions, I'd take the opportunity to answer some of them. As far as the General Administrative Procedure Act is concerned, it's in the works and the deadline is quite long, it's only half next year. The reason for such a long time is because it is done thoroughly, there will be a broad public debate. I think this one's over 30 years old, I don't know exactly. He's 14 years old now. He's generally relying on the one who's 30 years old. So if we're doing a more fundamental change in the ZUP, I don't think it's disputed that we're doing it a little longer. If that were the case overnight, some other government would've done it before us. So I don't see it as a problem. Why did the Law on Administrative Disputes go before? The Law on Administrative Disputes is a direct consequence of the new regulation of Serbia's courts, i.e. the Law on Regulating Courts, the establishment of the Administrative Court, the need for the Administrative Court to start working if I am not mistaken on January 1st. Therefore, the court's procedure had to be settled. Does the European Commission have any objections? There are objections. Unfortunately, these remarks are of general character, that it does not comply with EU standards. My opinion is that the objections refer to two-stageness, which is not due to the Law on Administrative Disputes, but is due to the fact that there is one Administrative Court. So it's not a question for me at all as Minister of State Administration. Otherwise, the question of how much the procedural law relating to administrative disputes is a matter for the Ministry of State Administration's jurisdiction, but it doesn't matter. We have made the law on administrative disputes, according to the frameworks that have been given to laws relating to the regulation of courts in the Republic of Serbia. How could she introduce two degrees? Not at all. How could the public be introduced if you have 29 bigger ones? Probably not, but it's not the matter that was edited by this ministry, but it's the National Assembly that passed the laws that gave us the frameworks within which the Law on Administrative Disputes could move. If the National Assembly changes that framework, let's say, if it determines as the jurisdiction of the Supreme Cassation Court, which I don't know how it could, and by law, solve it in the second degree, we'll have two degrees. If the jurisdiction of the Supreme Cassation Court is not determined, there is no objectively two-stage, because the Administrative Court is one. It's not much of a science, and the laymen know what it's about. As for the downsizing of the number of employees, it is true that I did not defend those laws. I had one concept. In the government, he mastered another concept. Those who have proposed this other concept have also defended this concept and they are now in charge of implementing this concept, so the topic is not for me, but I am glad to be able to repeat it. Of course, everything that comes from the SRS has always been the best and there is no dilemma. You're the best, the smartest, but we have a chance to ask ourselves something once in a while. I don't think the interrelationship between the public administration authorities is the matter of the General Administrative Procedure Act, at least not with certainty, as you have brought here, Mr Martinovic. I think we have made it very clear – the interrelationship between the authorities of the state administration and that's why we put it in the State Administration Act. Why does it matter to us? You said you didn't know what the legion had told you. I'll tell you why we think this is important. So far, in the ZUP, it has been an obligation for the authorities to obtain citizens' documents themselves. Someone here or whoever's watching this program say that the state itself has obtained some kind of document. No, but the counterman says, "Here, bring a copy of the birth certificate to you, and it is a copy of Prokuplje; bring citizenship, and your citizenship is in the Shop." It's a reality in Serbia. So, we've changed the Law of Parent Books, we're establishing a central register and we want as an obligation to introduce that the authorities of the State Administration are obtaining these documents. That's why I disagree with you because you said "if I judge." There's nothing an organ can estimate, it's the obligation of the organ to do it. Of course, if he has to solve my rights and obligations, so I bring him my documents, then we have no problem, he will solve what he has. If I don't bring it to him, he won't tell me – I thought it was more effective for you to run along and bring your birth certificate. How much more should citizens serve and be a postman between different authorities of the state administration? So that's why we made it mandatory and that's why our member differs from your member. You put it as an alternative, put it in our place as mandatory, and that's why I don't think your amendment is good. How can an authority make an examination if electronic records have not yet been established? If there is no possibility of electronic examination, it will not be carried out. There's no dilemma. Mr. Martinovicu, the title is here – the interrelationship between the authorities of the state administration. It is not the title - the exercise of rights in the administrative process, how citizens will exercise their right, but it is the question of the relationship between the authorities. In particular, tomorrow I want to take out my passport, go to Lermont Street. Do I have to bring my citizenship to the police? Can't the police get into the home register and take my data from the home books in PDF format, add it to the list of cases, but I'm going to go to the municipality, I don't know which one, and I'm going to take that same one out and bring it to the police? 'It was the intensity of the law, it was a war legion. What's happened so far hasn't worked.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48435	I really abstain from trying to wait for the MPs to start respecting the Rules of Procedure themselves and not act the way they resent everyone else to behave, so I'm really asking you not to throw it away. I know it doesn't bother Minister Markovic, I know he's not distracted, I know he enjoys lively debates, but the Rules of Procedure is the Rules of Procedure, and the minister is the minister. Don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48436	In the end, you noticed something I noticed as a mistake, which is the government's authority. The intensity was to be a matter of technical conditions. The DSS has submitted an amendment where it even drops that it is done by the ministry and they understand that it is technical conditions. You understood that in a different way, but I also saw that it could be controversial, so we submitted the amendment and deleted it. Here, for what it's worth, you were right there. True, we submitted our amendment on November 29th, if that matters at all. I don't think it matters, but I mean, why do you insist on it so much, and you filed for yours on November 30th? So we didn't prescribe anything, but I wouldn't be ashamed if I'd prescribed it from you. That's what I'm telling you honestly. Why would that be a shame? I took and accepted the SNS amendment. I think these things are normal. Since you insisted that we've copied something, I'm telling you that I'm not, but be sure, I'll always be ready to copy, when I think you're right. In my opinion, there's no shame in that. I guess that's why there's a National Assembly. Ministers aren't the smartest, nor are their associates. That's why there are amendments. Generally speaking, you've also asked the question of public agencies. I'd say we're like-minded here. In several interviews and public appearances, I kept saying that. I think we have a very serious problem. This problem is a matter of political will, this problem is not a matter of the Ministry of State Administration. You know that agencies are founded by laws, sectoral laws. You here in the National Assembly, as the National Assembly, have founded so far, I don't know how many agencies, on the government's proposal. My opinion is that all the tasks of the state administration should be carried out exclusively by the authorities of the state administration. I don't understand why public administration jobs would be carried out by agencies that aren't state administration authorities, unless it's a wish that the status of employees would move the part and put in a more liberal status defined by the Labour Act, in relation to the status of the Civil Service Act, which is rigid, as well as any law on state administration everywhere in the world. There's no country in the world where it's not rigid. So, my opinion is that behind that, there's a much more liberal way of managing that subject. We agree on that. I'm a major opponent of the establishment of public agencies. Some public agencies have to exist, it's quite clear, but I think it would be far more useful for the public agencies to return to the authorities of the state administration. At the very least, our law knows three kinds of government bodies. These are the ministries, the authorities of the ministry and the special organisation. I think those with their differences allow you to put the jobs you need into some greater independence, as offered by a special organization. That would be the answers. As for the position of employees in local self-governments, you see, when this concept I proposed did not get most, this concept of rationalization, a different concept of self-reforming in the authorities of the state administration, then by the logic of things and this law on employees suffered, it is in the works, as you know, and the Permanent Conference is involved, working on it, but it has suffered certain idea changes that would fit into what government policy is. It will be completed, but honestly I am telling you, the position of employees alone will not change anything unless it follows a proper law on the salaries of these people, if this law continues to apply in public authorities and public services to them. We won't get anything by just moving them out of status, not applying the Law on Labour in State Authorities, which is incredibly out of force. These are some absurds. I inherited them, this government inherited them, and there's no need now to indicate who it was when it was working and bringing. That would be the answer to these questions. There is no need for you to be to this extent negative towards this attempt that essentially changes and reforms Serbia's state administration. We are doing this in close co-operation with Mr. Sabic, the public information trustee, in that segment relating to the protection of personal data. It's very important to me that we don't make a foul in that direction. Are we perhaps too careful to implement this? Yes, I've been waiting for this for tens of years, so we're doing it cautiously now, but by the end of this government's term, I believe that almost no one or at least a small number of people will, when it comes to at least the parent's books, be a postman and deliver it between the state authorities. I think that's the biggest state administration reform in the last 60 years. This law on parent books and the creation of a home register, if anyone thinks there's something bigger in the government than that, I'm willing to discuss it. I do not see that there has been a major reform and whether there is anything that will definitely be transferred by the state administration of Serbia to the 21st century by law on parent books, registers and these accompanying amendments to the law, which we want to do alive and do the obligation of the state authorities to, when acting in the administrative procedure at the request of citizens, collect these documents themselves through computers.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48437	National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48438	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if you had sat down, Mr. Minister, in an O.R., as you haven't, all along our debate, then you'd realize that we in the SRS have really had a series of constructive and valuable objections, as far as not only this law, or the bill of law, but the general state of the state administration. Let me take my turn. First, you realized that this matter was already regulated by law, but that the problem is that this law is not being applied. I'm telling you that it's your fault, or your ministry, because as far as I know, there's something called administrative inspection within the Department of State and local self-government, which controls the application of the General Administration Act and the State Administration Act. If you have noticed that a local or a civil servant does not respect a law that is in the interests of the party in the administrative procedure, why did you not apply the means at your disposal and punish you properly, sanctioned that official, or official, but now, because one, otherwise good law, is not being applied, accessing the amendment of another law, the Law on State Administration? I really can't understand that, despite my best wishes. A subtitle above the new Article 75a reads - the mutual relations between the authorities of the state administration and the relationship with other bodies of public authorities in the process of resolving the rights, obligations or legal interests of the parties. Now it's just a matter of interpretation here, are we going to put an emphasis on this part of the sentence that says – the interrelationship between the authorities, or are we going to put an emphasis on this second part, which says – in the process of resolving the rights, obligations or legal interests of the parties? Our position is legitimate. You don't have to accept it. We thought this was the matter of the General Administrative Procedure Act. You say no, it's the matter of the State Administration Act, but then here, Mr. Minister, puts it as a problem next.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48439	Two minutes. Replication time has been used.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48440	Can I continue, since I've volunteered to speak within the time of the parliamentary group, not as someone who has a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48441	You have received the right to a replica and will now receive the word of Minister Milan Markovic, and after that you can use the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48442	There's no need for you to tell me he's legitimate, I've never disputed that the legitimate position represented by any MP. Of course it's legitimate. You think so, and I told you not to think so, but I think that you simply, in line with the fact that I am a minister, and you are an opposition, at all costs, want to criticise what I have suggested. It's legitimate, it's not controversial, but now you're asking me why? Because the ZUP has just predicted what you predict it can. The law on administrative procedure says you can say in your amendment that you can. You want us to stay in the same state he says he can and that depends on the assessment of an officer whom I address as a citizen tomorrow to assess whether he can or can't, and the clerk will tell me if you go and get it. So I'm saying it's not "can," it's "debt." The deadlines, the essence will be given to the General Administrative Procedure Act, the matter of protection will be given to the Personal Data Protection Act, and here I have forced the state authority to have to. There's a difference. You're telling me why the State Department hasn't forced the authorities so far. That, let me tell you, Mr. Martinovic, is not correct. Why didn't you, when your colleague was a minister, why didn't the previous minister, why didn't the minister before the previous minister? Why didn't anyone in this country make that happen 60 years ago? You're asking me why I didn't force it in two years, and there's no legal obligation, it's just saying it can. Be correct. We all live in the same country. Each of us went to school and college and got married and got married. We know what that looks like. Now you're gonna tell me why you haven't done it in these two years, so here we go. At least I'm doing it and changing it, but it just couldn't, in my opinion, and I have no intention of accusing my colleagues earlier. It couldn't have happened until someone started setting up an electronic central base. I've set out to establish an electronic central database where we'll all be, with our data and on which the certification will be attached to the authorities of the state administration, and the base will, in accordance with the recommendations of the trustee's protector, record the day of entry, the time of entry, the length of the data withdrawn, and so on, to guarantee the safety of our personality data. So I totally understand your criticism, but let me tell you what I think about it the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48443	The minister used two minutes and 40 seconds. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48444	Mr. Markovic, first of all, tell me what sentence of our amendment mentions that satanized word "can"? Nowhere. Our amendment reads in the article that we are changing the text of Article 75a – "if this makes it possible to solve administrative matters faster and more efficiently", is it to the detriment of citizens, "or if it can be easier and more economically obtained evidence of which the legal and correct solution of the administrative matter depends". Is that at the expense of the party in the process? It's not. What is your problem, or the government that proposed this law, is that the subtitle above this Article 75a does not correspond to its content. You are talking about the interaction between the authorities of the state administration and its relationship with other bodies of public authorities. The essential Article 75a refers to the administrative procedure, how data are supplied, or how appropriate registers are made in accordance with specific rules. What we ask you is this – tell me how will the state administration authority make an insight into some electronic database in the municipality that doesn't own that electronic database? You didn't give me a rational answer to that question. Ever since Roman law, you know very well, I hope you know, it's said that what's being, what's being, what's being, what's being, what's being, what's being, what's being, what's being, what's being, what's being, what's being, what's being, what's being, what's being, what's being, what's being, what's being, what's being, what's being, what's being, what's being, Unfortunately, in much of Serbia, there is no such thing as what you are talking about. In some municipalities there are also typewriters of luxury, not electronic databases, not computers. You simply mixed up the order of steps, instead of networking all municipalities in Serbia and their municipal administrations, get them computers, so when you do, you change the law. No, you first changed the law, and the computers when they bought it. Probably never. That's the problem. Mr. Minister, why did we add these words to the amendment "if this allows for a faster and more efficient solution to administrative matters etc"? Because we wanted to protect the citizens from the fact that some government authority is looking into some data that are irrelevant to the administrative process. Now, according to what you've written, Mr. Minister, it turns out that the government's authority is solving the building permits of a citizen or a legal person, and he's doing an insight into, say, his police record. What are we going to do about it without having been defined before, why are there any insights at all? Is the police record being reviewed to allow for a faster and more efficient solution to the administrative matter? No, I don't. Is it done to make it easier and more economical to obtain evidence that depends on the legality of the administrative act? No, I don't. With this solution, we wanted to protect the citizens, Mr. Minister. I don't know if you understood it the best way. You didn't say what data. You didn't say the data relating to the administrative procedure, no, but the administrative procedure for the one-off thing is being conducted, and he can do whatever he wants. There are no restrictions anywhere. That's why we added this part to our amendment, so it's clear that the government authority can, or should, self-inspect the electronic databases if it's in the interest of the party itself and if it concerns the specific administration of things, not that you're conducting a procedure for issuing a building permit, but that you're looking at some databases that have nothing to do with the administrative matter itself. The intensity of our amendment was to keep an eye on records, or registers only when it comes to a specific administrative matter, not to other registers. There's an objective possibility of abuse here. Unfortunately, the state of Serbia is an example when these abuses happen very often. The only politician in Serbia, unfortunately not in Serbia right now, but we hope he will be back soon, is Vojislav Seselj, who publicly published his police file. These other people sitting here talking about opening police files, do you know what they're doing? They're hiding their police file like a snake's foot, so it doesn't show that they were dissidents during the day, and overnight spies worked for that same state security. In order for such things not to happen, the future amendment of the SRS obliges the public administration to make use of electronic databases, but only when it comes to a specific administrative matter and thus prevents it from committing abuses. If there is any arbitration and will, there is it in the draft law of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, not in the amendment to the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48445	Five minutes and 25 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word has Minister Milan Markovic. Ministers, as MPs earn, I refer you to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, in the search of the particulars of the minister there are three hours, or 180 minutes, regardless of the number of amendments, so you throw out, please stop, and if you do not know, please read the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which regulate the total amount of time available to the Government during the search in particular. Excuse me, Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48446	Thank you. What you just said, it's a question of these amendments that we've submitted, which you've submitted. As we have established, we have responded immediately after the adoption of the bill or the establishment of the bill and made an amendment that speaks of what you are talking about. I can't believe you don't know that. "In the process of resolving the rights, obligations or legal interests of a natural or legal person, or of another party, under official duty, in accordance with the law", "with" a small letter, "provides insight, obtaining, processing data from records or from registers which, in accordance with specific regulations, are managed by other authorities of the state administration etc." Mr. Martinovic knows, and probably everyone who is these professions why I emphasized "z" in a small letter. Item 2: "Proceeding to see, obtain and process data from records or from registers that are conducted in electronic form", so that is the second case where they are in electronic form, ''' from Article 1, item 1 of this article shall be carried out through an information system that provides security and protection of personal data. ''St. 3. which you have just said: 'In the procedure referred to in Article 1 of this Article, the authorities of the State Administration may exercise insight, obtain and process only those data which have been identified by law or by special regulation as necessary for the resolution of certain rights, obligations or the legal interest of the party.' Mr. Martinovicu, we did this in direct co-operation with the trustee for information of public importance. Whether I agree with this or if you agree with this, you will allow, in this case it is irrelevant. So, the National Assembly has chosen a public information trustee who has been authorised by law to take care of the protection of personal data, among other things, and this information of public importance, if its position is this, you and I will explain that he does not know his job and that you and I will do it better as you think or as I think. We've changed the original text of the law. We've submitted the amendment. Your member, Mr. Martinović, differs from our member not according to this, this is identical in both yours and ours, the following is different – you said in your amendment if this allows for a faster and more efficient solution to the administrative matter, i.e. easier and more economically obtaining these evidences, etc. I ask you, Mr. Martinovic, if I come to the counter, to simplify things, to live things, to good day-to-day, I want a passport, whether it's a counter-officer or an officer who's going to assess whether it's more economical to send me to run from the counter to the counter, or if they're going to do it? It should be in line with the principles of economic, efficiency, etc., but we have so far had an open field for people to rule in this way, so most often it ended up to the harm of us as parties. That's why we made it a commitment. This is the main question you asked, I must inform you that the last two years have been working intensively to improve information resources in local self-government units. We have an accurate analysis at the ministry, but I'm going to try to paraphrase, two years ago we had as many as 30 or 40 units of local self-government that didn't have any decent time in which we live when it comes to IT. We didn't practically fix that problem. At the moment I think it's almost over, but we're going to publish it, the largest network of information in Serbia, that's the network we've made in this year and a half together with Posta Srpska, it goes to every home area. Serbia's largest information network is just in construction, so the basic citizens' records, it's a parent book, will be networked and another copy is being conducted in electronic form. Simultaneously, we're going with that technical solution and the amendments to the law. The General Administrative Procedure Act, of course, will touch this matter, but much more detailed, much deeper, and will give general frameworks on how to equate electronic paper and document, as provided for by the Electronic List Act, on an electronic document, etc. It'll give everything to the General Administrative Procedure Act. You probably know we're doing projects here, too. You're probably aware that now large taxpayers in electronic tax forms, that we've amended the office procedure regulation to give some kind of a framework for such a way of doing it. It's just that in these two years there's been a lot of work and the fact is that from the root is changing this kind of communication and work. Three organs are certification bodies. Certificates are issued to citizens, both natural persons and legal persons. It would have been good to say overnight that everyone has computers, that they're all informationally connected, but unfortunately it's not, which doesn't mean it won't be. By the end of this year, we'll have a polling list as an electronic single database. Citizens will be able to choose where to vote. It will no longer be a problem to say that you are going to the King today, and on election day you will be in Kruševec. I'll vote there. We're trying to make these changes the best we can. We consult people who are the most measured and my biggest concern in all of this is the protection of personal data. That's what I'm telling you honestly. I'm willing to work more slowly if necessary, but to protect personal data. We're working closely with whoever here is legally authorized to take care of it. This is a public information trustee. I don't see why this would have so much criticism on your part when I can't figure out what we're doing wrong here, except for that attitude, which I can partly accept, whether and to what extent this matter is going to be in what law. It is obvious that this matter will be contained essentially in three laws, the Law on the Protection of Personality Data, the Law on General Administrative Procedure, which will give a general framework, and in part this law. In a series of sectoral laws that will define individual procedures in accordance with the specificities required, as we have a general administrative procedure, and in sectoral laws, defined procedures are also deviating from deadlines, and even somewhere deviations from how this procedure was conducted, deviations from the two-stage administrative procedure, which I think is very bad. But it was once again adopted by the National Assembly on a proposal from some ministers that we had no complaints, but that we were going into a administrative dispute. I say again, it is not a question for me, as it is not a question of a administrative dispute for me, because the administrative dispute is regulated in those frameworks given by the Law on Court Order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48447	Seven minutes and 35 seconds of time used. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48448	Mr. Minister, tell me what will happen if a civil servant who works in the authority of the administration and conducts an administrative procedure on the right, obligation or legal interest of a natural or legal person does not carry out an official inspection of the data and registers on the basis of which the solution to the administrative matter depends. Any sanctions now before you passed this law? That's what I'm asking you. Why not apply those measures that the law makes available to you? According to that logic, Mr. Minister, you will tell us that you cannot apply this law, nor can the existing law. What the SRS is trying to point out is that you already have a mechanism to facilitate the position of citizens in the administrative process, but that you do not, because you do not want to sanction first of all party state and local officials. Do you have an administrative inspection? Where did you send her because she made it difficult for someone to resolve his rights or obligations or legal interests? You didn't send her anywhere. The ministry's administrative inspection of the local administration serves more or less to be a political beating over those municipalities where the government is formed so that it does not correspond to the structure of the government at RS level. Let's not lie. When you locate such a municipality where God forbid it, let's say the SRS let's do everything we can to bring that power down. When did you sanction a local official for not applying the principle of the General Administrative Procedure Act, the principle of efficiency? Have you taken any action? You're not. If you have not taken measures to apply existing laws, tell me why would you believe that you will apply these measures when you pass this law? This law is kind of unnecessary, because you yourself have admitted that there is already a legal solution that makes it possible to get to these evidences faster, or public lists, of which it depends legally on solving a certain administrative matter. The problem is that the Department of State and local self-government obviously, at least that's my opinion, doesn't do their job properly. If it does not work now and if, right now, it does not comply with the rules of law, why should we believe that you will respect this law and do not respect the law that is already in force. This is still a suggestion. Whether he'll be voted, we'll see. Probably will. I'm talking about an existing legal solution that doesn't apply in practice, in some cases because you don't want to apply it for certain reasons, and now you're wondering why you radicals don't trust me that this will be applied. What can we trust you on? Politics is not a matter of faith, but you must convince us by your actions that you have already applied what is at your disposal in the existing law. You were not completely convincing, Mr. Minister, with your answer – we were going to network municipalities etc. Mr Krasic knows better than I do that ten years in Serbia are talking about a single polling list. DOS came to power with a great promise when we win, when we bring down the corrupt Milosevic regime, where it has been swindled with voter lists, each municipality has its own list, we will introduce a European standard – a single polling list. Since 2000, we've been listening to this story. Where's that unique voter list? Nowhere. He's gone. And then you wonder, and why don't you believe us that we have good intentions too? You know, it's like that question from that anecdote about the wolf and the fox, when the wolf asked the fox -- why don't you go into the cold den, he says -- I'm afraid of tracks. All traces lead to the den, but certainly none of them from the den. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48449	Four minutes and 10 seconds used by the MP's group. The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48450	Everything, Mr. Martinovic, is clear, I'm sure. And this is now the need to criticise this because you are the opposition, and I am a representative of the government. As you can see, no beating has been used in Serbia. Mr. Martinovic, 575 if I am not mistaken, 590 deputies are confirmed by the SRS only thanks to thanks, here I am looking at colleagues who do not like it, thanks to my views, the opinions I signed as minister and the judgments of the district courts under the law and solutions in the law which, along with my colleague, Bratislav Djokic, whose author I was. Contrary to the idea of my dear colleague at the time, who thought it was supposed to be in the basic courts, she did not object to the general idea, and I thought it would be in the county and I showed that she was on county better. We don't want to skip that story, that there's a beating that, truth be told, counts one 16 inspectors and ousts fear and shivering in Serbia, administrative inspectors. Don't say that, because it's just not true. But I think you SRS know that's not true. It's completely incorrect that you're trying to say that in any way I've politicized the work of an inspection or ministry when it comes to local self-government. Mr. Martinovic, I'm telling you, we as an administrative inspection and you know it in fact, now I'm talking to you like you're talking to me, and you know I know what's true here. So, I'm telling you, we as administrative inspection, or administrative inspection, can control, among other things, administrative work relations, etc. What controls, it's the only thing that we control at this point, and we can control it by law, which is the length of the administrative disputes. Therefore, the up-to-date resolution of administrative procedures and the up-to-date resolution of cases. By law of the prescribed deadline, the general deadline for resolving the cases in the administrative procedure shall be 60 days. In that time, they solve all the problems. What's the problem here? If we tell the clerk now, come to the mothermaker and say, "We want to get married." To you, the parent, that form, you know the one on the counter and says – bring a copy from the birth certificate, etc. That's not why we can punish that mothermaker, because he's not told in the ZUP that he's obliged to accept it, he's just telling him that he can get it himself. What he won't, I can't do, it's the organ manager who decides, he'll say -- this employee is not doing me well, to control, and I don't even know how many, 11,000-12000 parent areas in Serbia. You know, anyway, how many administrative procedures are being done. We have tens of thousands of people doing different administrative procedures in local self-government and state administration units. You're now saying that he, where there's no explicit legal obligation to do something, is to base it on sanctioning him, which, of course, should again be done by an organ manager, if he's unsettlingly working. That, Mr. Martinovic, is simply impossible. The difference between now and this new one is that we have done two things – we have made the first record, made the network electronic and established as the obligation of the state authority, the obligation, and not more so, it has to obtain documents, either electronically, or from this item 1 which will obtain them by paper. In all this, he adheres to the framework given by the Law on General Administrative Procedure. If he refuses this, then I have the basis to report it to the inspection, to the head of the organs and to punish such a man. That's the difference. You asked me, "What now, when you come?" Right to tell you, believe me, now that you're coming and telling a man that. He says - bring it to me from the documents. Realistically, Mr. Martinovic, you have no legal stand to do anything. That's what he says. He can, and he doesn't say it's his obligation. He can be regarded as a bad manager, but let's be realistic, who came here in Serbia to do some work where a document was to be obtained from another state body and that the state body did it for him. I've never had that privilege, and I've been a lawyer. It never happened to me. Now it's an obligation. Now you come to the counter and you say that, file a request and go home. It's his job to handle it. It won't be hard for him, because again, a large number is now electronically connected. You asked me about a unique polling list. They all promised a unique voter list. What difference does it make? I've only been in office two-and-a-half years. I proposed the law. You have adopted him as the Messengers of the people. There's a voter list going on right now. I'm telling you, by the end of 2011, Serbia will have a unique polling list as an electronic database, and those trains and buses, travels, etc. will go back to the past. I can't answer for what was ten years ago, as I don't think you too, Mr. Martinovic, should answer what was 20 years ago. We were actors of these events, so that we could now accuse each other, why someone in 2001 or 2005 didn't bring anything. The same goes for you, why didn't you do it in 1999? We've had a multiparty since 1990. Third, I don't know what the third one was, but generally I think you agree with this here and you know I'm right. But if you want, we can keep going on this topic and work on the question.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48451	The used time from time is available for five minutes and 45 seconds. The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48452	I am patiently waiting 2.5 hours to impose order, business order and good customs in this assembly, to discuss an amendment which, I concluded from the statement by Mr. Minister, was submitted to the amendment to Article 1 of the SNS parliamentary group, meaning 29 at 1600 hours and to discuss it before the amendment which was not required to be deleted. I really don't understand why we've been talking for 2.5 hours about an amendment that I don't see any reason to be more in the debate than what I'm talking about. I also have an explanation for why we're talking about this this way. Given that the SNS parliamentary group submitted its amendment at 4:00 p.m., and the government at 1625 p.m. and that it only repacked the solution with it, which I will not object to but I will congratulate her and resent her for not repacking it in total. I'll explain that to the citizens. The first solution made by the Government contained the same solution as the one it made with the amendment, with the fact that it was written in Section 2 that the exercise of insight and the acquisition of data from the records was done in such a way as to ensure the safety and protection of data. Now, Mr. Minister, you're, I'm sure, I've seen, just add the word "personality." That is why the attitude we asked for with the amendment, and the Government repacked it this way – the authority of the state administration in Article 1, means it is desirable that you implement one of these initiatives through the Law on State Administration. To make it easier, because it's still not possible in the right way. To take out your ID card, you physically need to bring in a document and a copy, because that rulebook is still not in line with this. But if that's what you're doing, I'm praising your initiative. But we wanted to improve it. I guess that's the purpose of our work together. I say – we have asked that only those data which are required to be solved under the law can be obtained, or the applicant is required to make calls on them. You took it, commendable. It was repacked by the government for 25 minutes, and we may even have thought the same thing, but they lacked an important part of which deliberately avoided the story of today's public here for 2.5 hours. This is the next part – with the mandatory recording of the knowledge achieved and the reasons for the data and records and registers, except for data from public books which are otherwise available. The important thing you left out. Now I'm taking examples that you've been taking – insight into files, insight into some data that are otherwise not public and which can be the subject of abuse. You should have done as we have amended and suggested to solve in a way that required registration. Why is that necessary? When buying Repo paper from the National Bank, when trading securities of value, means something that is clearly valuable, money and securities of value, every card that reads on its name enters the trading system. Because such a way is necessary, we know today that in illegal trade, when selling shares of the National Savings Bank, by Sinerji Capital, broker Ana Lukic misused software that she did not invent, but someone made it possible, a software called "stopping time" and that at one price called the prevailing price, someone making a huge profit on the market in the sale of shares of the National Savings Bank. So, if it were not possible to identify who made the entry into the system, Ana Lukic could not have been allowed by the Securities Commission to obtain a year's labour ban. A particular problem is that in serious countries such a violation is banned from work, not only by brokers, but by entire brokerage houses. On the other hand, its director Slavko Caric admitted that he was doing it and that he is now chairman of the executive board of a bank. It doesn't matter, but it doesn't matter for this debate right now. It was necessary that you accept this amendment as a whole because it means that the knowledge that you, Mr. Minister, are indisputable, the knowledge that exists in this Serbia, has it and the young people most, have it and well-intentioned, but if it is not applied, you will agree with me, it is an art that is beautiful to see. I have heard the knowledge of history here today, very commendable, but your unapplicable knowledge is like art or art, and applied art means that someone's talent is used for practical purposes, including talent and knowledge of those who deal with politics only has a purpose if it is put into the function of improving the lives of citizens. I respect your initiative, but you should have gone all the way with it. How do we do that? I will only state to you the case of Constitutional Court, number 231 since 2009, which, through the name of our member, has been submitted by Miladin Pantelic to the Constitutional Court, which has initiated the constitutional procedure, in a way that the regulation cannot, as regards the application of the law, which is guaranteed by the Constitution, which is Article 42, and the special treatment and protection of personality data cannot be subject to the work of the minister, as a sublegal act, and you have therefore adopted this part of our amendment. So you didn't want to get into any trouble, to have your initiative in front of the Constitutional Court because we, having the knowledge and the will to help, previously at the Public Information Act, have already submitted the initiative, have been adopted and received, so to speak, an attitude, so it can't be done anymore. What I find problematic, coming down from the ministerial post, entering the state administration, are not things from the treatment of life or death. You need to stay behind the clues people will remember you by, that you did something good for the first time, and that you don't lose the will to do it the best way to the end. But entering the state administration must also be motivated by the best criteria, where someone, Mr. Minister, is not going to write you a law, help you write out of two members where we're going to have two amendments, one of which you're repacking, and the other you're going to adopt completely. I don't want to be mutually pleased that we've done something for the citizens of Serbia in some way clouded by the fact that I'm going to be like now that you've passed the law, but I want to criticise your fellows who are amendments, that Article 2, now they've had to adopt fully, because they didn't write a textzacon that meant compliance with the Law on Higher Education, not just with authentic interpretation. And they know that now it is the Constitutional Court's position to take care of the unity of the legal system. In such a way, MPs of the Serbian Parliament, in my court and the citizens' court, must fight for rights and a better quality of life because knowledge without application is like a decoration that has no purpose at all. Two-and-a-half hours here today are talking about something that isn't the essence of the law, yes, it's allowed, in parliament it's possible to expand the subject, but it wasn't done by accident. So that we don't talk about why the first amendment was repacked, and secondly, I can't wait to report on my amendment, under Article 1, which was put into question without any other rules, to entertain the public with a story about history or a story that really isn't a subject of citizens. Mr. Minister, I expect that the way you're fighting for the state you're just doing it to the end, so what was the election theft in Bora, and I know that you have the strength, if you're willing, to be the whole thing about the single voter's list, where election theft begins, but that never ends with any electoral theft that won't find an epilogue in some procedure, a law envisaged, unabused, where we're going to give the citizens of Serbia and young people first of all the faith that we're ready to live in a civilized and orderly state and to give a common contribution to that end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48453	Dear Members of Parliament, on the basis of Article 90(2), and in accordance with Article 27, I am obliged, because of the claims raised in the debate of the People's Parliament, on the order in which the search is conducted in particular, to remind both the People's Parliament and the National Assembly that the order of decision by amendment is identical, as well as the order in which the search is in detail which, under Article 166(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it reads - if several amendments have been submitted to the same member of the bill, which is the case with a search in the particulars that are currently under way, it is first in the search in particular on the amendment which proposes to delete the provision of the member, and then on the amendment proposing to amend the whole member. After that, amendments that intervene on individual points of view follow. In the search in particular, we already had the amendment first to Article 1, which was submitted by the Government, which is in order, pursuant to Article 166(2), we are currently second in line, by amendment to Article 1, which was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, also in accordance with Article 166. The third in a row will be an amendment to Article 1, which was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The fourth in a row, in accordance with Article 166(2), will be the amendment submitted jointly by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic, also in accordance with Article 166(2). The last, or fifth amendment, will be an amendment to the next member - amending and supplementing the law on state administration, and to Article 2, which was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Group of Serbia. With the gratitude of the Service for the Preparation of Sessions and Service of the National Assembly, which makes sure that the search is carried out in detail in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we give this notice to the MPs. You want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. National MP Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48454	I don't want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, but simply, you didn't inform the public in the right way. Article 1, which has been discussed all the time, and following the Government's amendment, speaks of not asking for erasure, but changing and saying, which is also an intervention on one of the views and your interpretation of re-determining the amendments and the debate on amendments because we have already discussed it once. You had a position not to discuss the amendments that were adopted. That's not true. According to the Rules of Procedure, the amendments adopted are not decided, but they can be discussed and I pray that you do not lead the public astray.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48455	The Members of Parliament, once again, since there is no infringement of Article 166(2) - if several amendments have been submitted to the same member of the bill, the amendment proposing to delete the provisions of that member and then the amendment proposing to amend the whole member shall be decided first. Following this, the amendment proposing amendments to individual positions in the article and the order of amendments on the search in particular, which is currently under way, was made in accordance with Article 166(2). As for the debate on the amendments adopted, the amendment adopted is no longer an amendment and cannot be discussed. You want to talk again about hurting the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48456	I'll use the time of the parliamentary group, but let me answer you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48457	Minister Milan Markovic has the word, after which you will have the right to use the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48458	I hope I understand your discussion well in one positive tone, and I'm glad you have that attitude towards what we do. I don't know if I deserve your trust to believe my word, but it doesn't matter at all, I'd be happy to write it down, I wouldn't bother, I wouldn't cheat, I'd accept the amendment, it's much easier. But believe me, 25 minutes is the difference between being accepted in the Assembly and before that the government adopted it, I mean at 13.00 hours at the session. I say again, your amendment is excellent. There's no dilemma. The only problem remains with the recording issue. That's the question I asked. However, as in the answer that we have given you and I have discussed this with Mr Sabic – it is a matter of recording matter and the Law on the Protection of Personal Data, as you know, every processing, data collection, etc. In itself, it's a criminal act. The second question of recording, in general to try to solve, we would have to make a special act that would deal with it, means that we would go back to some sectoral, say, parent-books specifically. So for parent books, in particular, every entry into the system as you just talked about moles, or certified signatures define time, data numbers, etc. You have a third thing, what if it entered unauthorized? So he must have for every entry, but that's where the incrimination is at stake. Do you understand me, how do I know that one of the 8,000 queens in Serbia doesn't push a card and do something? Here's a question for today, how do you and I know that here we know that right now someone sitting there hasn't opened that book and watched our data. Is someone going to do crimes? The fact is that this reduces the possibility of someone doing it, to introduce a higher degree of security, and yet I say, crimes exist, there are penalties for crimes, and you can't solve it by determining the procedure, because the crime is the result of the infringement already existing and established procedures. Therefore, I fully understand your amendment. My question was the same whether this law should solve the recording? The general position, therefore, with everyone I have spoken to, only recording and recording procedures should be resolved by the Personal Data Protection Act, not to worry in the meantime, because any unauthorized data processing has already been established as a criminal offence. Therefore, the answer to your amendment is that. Otherwise, don't doubt it, as I asked for your amendment regarding higher education to be accepted, I share the grade you said, I don't have any problem, because everyone has to leave something behind. In a way, I'm the author of this whole parent-book reform and I know it means a lot more to me that no one is looking for parent-books no more than six months old, married, born and dead, it means to me that you don't have to choose anymore, or when the full reform is over, you won't have to go to a specific municipality by the parent-book. To me, further, it means that this law in full application will mean that people will practically never know what it is again, because they won't need it, they will be able to have one home, but it's worth it permanently and they won't have to wear it. I have no problem fighting authority over this, anyone, but I can only thank you for the amendments you've submitted, because you've helped us, you've really helped us, with the word, the recording, with everyone I've talked to, including the trustee for information, the attitude is that I can't regulate it here, or we can't regulate the recording without having to worry about it, because it can be the matter of office business, because the unauthorized is the entering of criminal acts. So it's already been threatened with criminal sanctions for every type of data processing where personal data are protected. Thank you anyway for the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48459	Four minutes and five seconds of time at your disposal. The word has been made by MP Zoran Krasic, and the national envoy, Jorgovanka Tabakovic. Please do not throw away, MP Zoran Krasic has been reported. There is also a time available for an authorised representative and by order of application, the MPs, therefore, receive their word. You do not seek a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you do not have the right to reply and you will receive a word when the presentation of the MP who has previously been registered in the electronic system is completed.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48460	Give me back my time, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48461	People's MP, be my guest, your 45 seconds will be added to the 15 minutes you have as an authorised representative and seven, which you have as a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48462	Let's just remember what law we're talking about and what amendment we're talking about. I want to take the opportunity to talk about the amendment to article 1 submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic and, of course, what is the government's amendment. Of course, I'm losing Minister Markovic again. You see, this has been happening for a year. When I take my word, Milan Markovic escapes. Does a cop need to keep him here, or does he go there to count the money, I don't know what he's doing...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48463	I ask you to keep an eye on the subject of the agenda and conduct in the Assembly and to comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48464	This doesn't make sense, Mrs. Comic, this is where the ministers run when I take my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48465	I ask that you speak with respect of the Minister, both this and every other, as you do not flee, and that you do not throw away. So, for a total of three hours, I ask you to accept the provisions of the Rules of Procedures, which mean that it is not thrown away and that it behaves properly in the congregation. Since you refuse, MP Momir Markovic, for the fourth time since the beginning of this session, or the work of this session, which is unacceptable. I now warn you that every subsequent violation of the Rules of Procedure obliges me to give you a warning measure. If you feel that this is the only way to conduct a debate and discussion at the National Assembly sessions, I am available. I'm against it, but I'll never let you, because you think you can create a riot in the Assembly, compromise the order and atmosphere of the debate at NS sessions.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48466	Can I do it now?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48467	Should I continue my appointments with the names of the people's ambassadors who earn, to remind them of the obligations of the Rules of Procedure and the obligations of proper conduct? It's not a problem for me. I think it's an unworthy atmosphere and work at NS sessions. I find it rude and unworthy of all those who sent us all to fight for their interests. National MP Milan Avramovic throws another time. And I'm warning you. The first subsequent infringement of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the NS shall end with the obligation laid down in Article 103, i.e. members which define the obligation to impose a penalty measure. National MP Zoran Krasic has used at this time 30 seconds from the time at his disposal. He has 15 minutes of the mandated representative and seven minutes for the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48468	At great risk of not realizing that the minister has left, I will continue to be stressed to comment on this bill of amendments and amendments to the state administration law. Let me tell you right now, I am absolutely sure that Stevan Liliæ participated in the draft law. Did you hear me, Mrs. Comic, I think Stevan Liliæ participated in the making of this law, because the quality or all of this that is bad in this law shows that only a university professor who was in serious legal error could do so. For the sake of young MPs, I'm just quoting what's in the stenograms with the NS sessions and the judgments of the courts who decided on plagiarists and other things. Let's move on, these few days, since we're talking about these epic reforms in the state administration, we're witnessing a kind of break-up. One way is stated in the draft law in response, in the government's opinion on the amendments, and in a completely different way in the media and in the address of the government's representatives, with a small letter "v". What's the difference? When verbally one of the representatives of the government, with a little letter "v", represents these changes, he says – we did the counters for free, we put in computers for free, we took money from abroad to modernise the administration, we don't need it anymore, because we're going to have to do everything on official duty by the authorities. It's almost not necessary for a man to apply. There's a government that knows what he might be looking for, and then on official duty, since the whole administrative procedure is being conducted on official duty, they can end it. Mrs. Komic, that's what Orwell described in one of his books. I don't like his books. They're very depressed. Here as a sacred example of this is said – citizens will no longer wait for a copy of the birth certificate, for citizenship, for the home books of the deceased, married and, as a rule, stop the glorification of such a bill. However, in Article 1 of this Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration, there is no word from the birth, death, marriage, citizenship, etc., which means that it is cowardly towards the public in one way, that people accept it, as it is now an epochal thing, and when it is looked at what is written in this article, it is seen that it has been done in the most general way and is applied, literally, to all solutions, individual acts, individual administrative acts, brought by the authorities of the state administration, on all matters from the jurisdiction of the state administration. So everything a citizen can report for, to get rid of one of his individual rights, is covered by this change. A lot more than a birth certificate. Then the question is, what's going on? Why do you do that? So it's done to justify some investments in computer communications equipment and what's called electronic administration. Can it come to life? He can't. Why? What the Nishli would say is, "there's no money." Computers exist, but there's no money. Can that work? He can't. Is that in some questionnaire, a rebus? Who knows. But the one who gave the money is looking for results. And here it is, we've adapted the law. It's similar to that in the judiciary, it's similar to that in other institutions. Let's move on. Of course, I know that this transmission is being followed by some people who are professionally following this area, so I need more for the public and for them to point out what's going on and to show how inappropriate it really is, that Martinovic, who teaches this to the students at the university, is being replicated by someone who has the only encounter with the state administration, which his mother went to get a copy of the birth certificate 30 years ago, for the person concerned. That really doesn't make sense. But since it's a layman's assembly, anything is possible here. Let's get in line. Of course, I'm the only man in Serbia who can't quote the Constitution, because when the Constitution is quoted I get a sentence. So, on December 9, 2008, Mrs. Komic, look at the stenogram, I quoted one member of the Constitution and I got a warning, so now I can't quote, but you won't give me a warning if I call the number of members from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This is Article 136. Says the state administration. What's the state administration? You see, when that member is read, it's said that the state administration's work is done by the ministries. Then let's look at Article 1 of this bill and see -- the government's authority. That's how it starts. So this change allows the ministries and administrations within the ministry to use what is a member of 75a. Then we come up with an answer that this can't be used by management within the local self-government unit. She could not even benefit from the fact that some regulations say that the management of a local self-government unit conducts the procedure by applying the rules of the general administrative procedure and the relevant provisions of the State Administration Act. But it has to be interpreted restrictively. That it takes a restrictive interpretation to be said by the promoter himself, since we now have titles for members. It says: the interrelationships of the authorities of the state administration. That would mean a relationship between the two ministries, between one ministry and the administration in the other ministry. Then that's where we find the big problem – now you see it, now you don't see it. Until a few years ago she was a tobacco agency, now she's a tobacco company. Who's going to define that now? We fought trenches in that building there to get out of that mania - agencies, agencies, agencies, because it looks like the frog saw the horses wet, so she raised her leg to get a horseshoe. Do you know how funny that looks? Now someone in Serbia will organise the state administration in the way it is in the UK, the Netherlands or Sweden. Of course it's going to turn out to be a cartoon. All it's copying is a cartoon, unless it's a Resav school. Then we come to the conclusion that in a regulation that regulates the state administration, and that's some regulation that regulates the status of state administration, provisions are inserted that have something to do with it. What's the objective of Article 75? The objective of Article 75a is for the national authority to be effective under official duty when deciding on the rights and interests of the individual. Excuse me, please, then it's the matter of the General Administrative Procedure Act. Then it's not the matter of the State Administration Act, because it has nothing to do with the state administration's status. How is he organized, and what is part of the business, jurisdiction, and so on? So one provision is artificially inserted in order to justify it according to sponsors from abroad, and it all started from the Palilula municipality, where Mr Markovic came from. He was the president of the municipality there in 2001. It's a pilot program. The next pilot program is Injia. It's all in books, Mrs. Komic, stenograms, etc. The truth is, Mr. Markovic left as a lawyer. They were unsuccessful, so those lawyers split into two or three groups. His biography says he is a security expert, which is why they were from Dragisic's university students here. So his relationship with the state administration is just Stevan Liliæ, nothing else. Legal delusion. Founded since his term of office in 2003 in the National Assembly. Isn't that right, Mrs. Comic? Remember? You don't remember. You don't have the right to a replica, let's move on. What's in the original text of article 1 that was designed out there somewhere? They're chasing what's the process and the way. That's about synonym. Then they say terms. So how can something that's the essence of a right to switch to something that's a sublegal act? That's forbidden. We talked a few days ago about the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights. There are some minimum standards. And today we are told here that the trustee of information is of the public importance of the cow world. He said and it has to be accepted. Why didn't you accept that trustee's 7,265 intervention with those civil servants who didn't want to answer? So this morning you had a chance to hear from Mr. Todorovic that they would not give the file to Moby 63, and it is a reasonable doubt that millions of amounts over Cyprus and exotic islands have gone into the primitively free pockets of some criminals. You know how to do it selectively? When the public defender screams, the government shuts up. When one who fights corruption screams, the government shuts up. When the trustee screams, the government shuts up. When the signal comes from abroad, you have to respect them, because they are your controllers, then the dribbles, the fines, we don't change the General Procedure Act, we're changing the State Administration Act, and we're telling citizens how to apply it, as Mr. Markovic said -- good day, respected clients, good day, Mr. Officer, etc., all European, and you wait 16 months to get rid of some elemental right. Let's move on to the analysis of this article. What does a new member of 75 give? What Mr. Markovic says - he is obliged to make an insight. And so far, they've been obliged to make an insight. To collect notifications and records kept under official duty. Excuse me, please, when the authority of the administration keeps some records in accordance with the law and you need some information, they give you confidence. Now it's going to be tied into some system. What system? Who's gonna use that system? Breaking that system is a matter of office business? Let's be a little serious when we're writing something, when we're proposing something, and when we have to figure out what the range of something that's prescribed as a norm, whether it's big or small. What are we talking about? Can someone be more naive after ten years of this failed adventure? No one has the right to be naive anymore. Is something going to happen? There's probably going to be some kind of abuse, because it's also written to make some kind of abuse. This is where the question of the application of our regulations is raised, who is applying our laws and regulations? I need to exclude local self-government from this member, because it's not covered. If we look at when a citizen speaks to something or to someone, and even let hypothetically everything be a state government, he most often addresses local self-government units. There we have an address to local self-government in order to exercise some of the rights of local self-government, but it has nothing to do with the state administration and rarely when it comes to something that's within the jurisdiction of the state administration, and usually it's about entrusted transactions that the Republic has transferred to local self-government units, and the Republic is funding from the budget for the activities and the work that's done in the state administration. What the hell is that supposed to be? These are the records of the states of citizens: born, dead, married, citizenship.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48469	The time available as an authorised representative has been used. You have seven minutes left as a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48470	Thank you. Then we come to the conclusion that this is where the graphics "You've painted free". Very rarely, a citizen addresses the ministry directly, and the ministry, under Article 136, is the authority of the state administration. Then there's the question of why this game, what does it want to achieve? I apologize to a large number of citizens who write to me, I wanted to give this to Mr. Markovic. How, for example, would this law and this member apply to the conclusion of an execution permit? Here, the garter, the lawless construction, the solution to access forced execution. There's nothing. Here, three conclusions on the execution permit. The computer's gonna fix it? You know when he'll solve it? Never. I've got them, I've got what the management forged. When they get the electronic system, you know how nice it's going to be forgeries? A copy of the plan - falsified, and the police found, and must not intervene. If I didn't order those examples, I'd be angry with someone I didn't mention, and they gave me the paperwork. I've got tons of paperwork. Those who blow whistles, banged pots, lost their jobs a long time ago. The ones with the sherpas did a good job for Cemgas, and the ones with the whistles of Kundaku, because he was selling. That's the whole farce and the whole story. This provision of the law does not show what you want to wrap up in a beautiful story and present to the citizens. It's not gonna be like that, and we all know that. We're trying something, if possible, to fix it. It's impossible to fix. Citizens, it's impossible for the amendments to fix something in this room. Why? Because the criterion for amendment 126 is There's a demonstration of something that I'm glad is being demonstrated, that democracy is something between parentheses. It's one form, and it's supposed to put everything to a vote and in the beginning those who vote know something's wrong. No normal decisions, no healthy decisions. If, by these principles of democracy, each of us individually made 50 decisions a day on his own personal status, none would be like what is being made here, and here we have a democratic form, now democracy is the majority. Okay, push, I just don't know how far you're going to push, since this concept of yours can fall, because if the municipality doesn't pay for electricity, so the computer doesn't work, you can't establish communication with the database. Now you're talking about applying something, and you don't have a database. And even what has to be in the registers, where there's a legal obligation to keep records of it, you don't have a database in electronic form. When you talked about the unique voter lists, I remember when Bakarec took that CD and went to the bathroom, that was the biggest problem. It was not until 2000 that the law promoted the principle of the single electoral list, so that in 1998 and 1999 there was no, but Milan Markovic can say anything, since he is a favorite of the president of the Republic, and his great friends are also working in the cabinet, friends from the time they cheered and dressed in that superstructure and illegal construction in Palilula. I didn't make it up, you wrote it in some of your reports. I will read them when the time comes and when I have much more time than this that Mrs. Comic has persistently cut off from me. I urge you to withdraw this bill. Nothing is as urgent as you represent it. Give a comprehensive change to the Law on General Administrative Procedure and what needs to be done in the Law on State Administration, the law with a great "z", but what would really be the matter of the Law on State Administration, not of making these kinds of improvisations, because this is how you really violate the legal-political system of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you, Mrs. Komic, for the rest of your time. The sooner you get to Europe, look at that questionnaire, solve those rebuses, if you need any help, don't answer me.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48471	Five minutes and 30 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. It's available for another minute and 30 seconds. The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48472	I am still trying to convince you, Mrs. Komic, and within the time of the parliamentary group, not wanting to take away the second time, that not only the word "determination" and the word "debate" have no similarities, nor can you apply Article 166(2) as a procedure concerning the discussion of amendments. Article 158(4) speaks of what I am talking about, that and when the amendment is adopted in the previous procedure, and before deciding on it, the applicant has the right to speak, because the purpose is to explain what he wanted to do. Article 158 treats the use of time to discuss amendments as a discussion in particular. I am just saying that, from the moment of the adoption of methodological rules for writing laws and amendments, work and professional services, but also you are to look at the content of the amendments and when it does not say "wipe", the amendment that we are discussing before the amendment tabled by the Parliamentary Group Forward Serbia, no erasure, is required, one sentence was added in the first position, and one sentence in the third sentence is added to the existing solution that the government, and before the intervention, has changed. What's he saying? That there is a very volunteering, arbitrary order for the debate on amendments, I'm not saying that there is a conspiracy theory, but I'm talking about when you send us a bill on Friday night, and we're living outside Belgrade, the only way to take down the text of the law, so we can slang it "cut it off", is to print it out of electronic form in paper, do the interventions, and send the amendment by 10:00 p.m., when it's time to start the debate after the first, probably a joint debate, as you normally do to us. So, the way to bring the amendments into line as soon as possible is to rewrite your member, the promoter, not yours, because you are Parliament, the legislative authority, not the proposing, the executive authority and to add that part that qualify us as MPs here to improve the text of the law. So you have no explanation why the amendment tabled by the Serbian Progressive Party Group is still not on the agenda and do not justify possible, because the decision-making procedure knows when to apply? When you set the day for the vote, when the debate goes through in detail, and it lasts this moment. Please don't just discuss things that can't be put in the same basket. As far as I'm concerned, I will always find a way to express my opinion in the time allowed by the business provisions, as I am about to say now, that the amendment to Article 1 which has been submitted by the Prosperity Group, Serbia, where we have asked for insight to be recorded...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48473	National MPs, the amendment is not currently under review, is currently subject to a review of amendments to Article 1 submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48474	Great, I know that, but I've had to cancel my duties, two interviews and a business meeting, and I've had to be irresponsible in front of some, because you've unexpectedly made the order that has made it impossible for me to talk about my amendment at 11:00, very responsiblely, presupposing obligations...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48475	People's MPs, please don't violate the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48476	I want to speak within my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48477	You can use the time of the parliamentary group, but the theme is the amendment submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48478	I'm going to talk about my time, and I'm going to talk about the subject, the law, and you can't talk to me about the subject and the law and my amendment, and I'm going to say to the same member, that I'm breaking the Rules of Procedure or I'm not talking about it, or even, I have to admit, you're telling me very rudely, as if I don't know what I'm talking about. I'm talking about my amendment to Article 1, and I'm asking you to let me use my time...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48479	People's MPs, your amendment is not on the agenda. The amendment of MP Aleksandar Martinovic is on the agenda. I really ask that in the context of the agenda with creative discussion, whoever you are, all the other MPs, but about this amendment, not about the amendment that is next in line. That's all I asked you to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48480	I don't need any creativity because I'm talking about an amendment to Article 1. This law has two members and an amendment has been submitted to Article 1 by a gentleman from another parliamentary group, as well as mine, and I am using my time to present the same member of the resolution of my parliamentary group. Is that inadmissible to you?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48481	No, that part can't be business. A search in the details of the amendment submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. You can do anything else, you just can't talk about your amendment, which is next in line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48482	It's article one, Mrs. Comic. We're talking about the same article, the amendment to the same article. I don't know how you don't understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48483	People's MPs, we're talking about the same member. One member may be subject to as many amendments as the MPs consider there to be, one, none, two, 40. The order of the search in particular, because we are now in the debate on the amendment tabled by Aleksandar Martinovic. Since it's about the subject and we're all witnesses, which means the width, anything can, but it can't be about an amendment that's next in line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48484	My time goes on all the time, while you're talking. I'm asking the Deputy Secretary to take care of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48485	You never have time, nor you, nor any messenger, nor any time has been denied. Please do not lead the public astray. (Milan Avramovic, from the post: This is the controversy. ) I give notice to MP Milan Avramovic. I said very clearly that you were warned, the last time you threw. I have made it very clear that I am giving you a warning measure for dropping and violating the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. (Milan Avramovic, from the place: Go happy home. I give you a second warning for continuing to throw. National MP Milan Avramovic was given a second warning because of rude behaviour, violations of the Rules of Procedure and discarding from the parliamentary post, which is prohibited by the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48486	I just want to say that as of 10:30 today, the debate in the Assembly is about the amendment to Article 1, which is being held first in the absence of business conditions or definitions, and I am taking the opportunity to present, in the context of respect for the obligation and the people with whom I was to be present at the meeting, the position of my parliamentary group under amendment to Article 1, not the amendment of my fellow Members sitting in this assembly, although Article 1...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48487	In that case, you will wait until we have completed the search in particular on the amendment to Article 1 submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, and you will be given the word for the amendment submitted by the parliamentary group Forward Serbia. The time you used is five minutes and 30 seconds. Does anyone else want a word in search of the details of the amendment to Article 1 submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic? No, I don't. ) Since a very serious accusation has been made that, in breach of the Rules of Procedure, a series of amendments have been made in the search of particulars, that this is done on purpose and that the Assembly wants us to pass the Rules of Procedure to investigate in particulars, all of this has been stated by the MP Jorgenka Tabaković, and once again, I will, to the public, and also for you, let me say - Article 166(2) and the obligation of the Service to prepare the session and service of the National Assembly to arrange our work in the search in particular. If a number of amendments have been tabled to the same member of the bill, the amendment proposing to delete the provisions of the member shall first be decided, and then the amendment proposing to amend the whole member. All other amendments follow these two, conditionally speaking, types of amendments. Why am I talking about the amendment when it comes to decision-making? Because each of these amendments could have been decided to be accepted and no examination in particular could be put in order of the amendments differently than the amendments and decided. In cases where the Legislative Committee is declared, in cases where the parent committee has a positive opinion, the representative of the Government is able to accept the amendment. In that case, by his statement, which is part of the National Assembly's stenogram, the amendment becomes an integral part of the bill's proposal. We have reached a decision on this amendment, without voting days, and that is why I thank you, thanks for the suggestion of the National Assembly and the Secretary, to inform you that the order of amendments has been made in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and now I ask you to make any kind of remarks you have on my work personally to me. But that, in political debates, abuses, interpretations of procedures, you do not involve worthy people who, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, have made the order of amendments, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, have informed all MPs and, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, are available to all the other types of information required by the Members of Parliament, and that the search is in particular. As regards your observations for the total time available to the Members for the review in particular, if the amendment has been adopted by giving a positive statement to the parent committee, the Legislative Committee and the proposal representative at one of those two committee sessions, then the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law and no MP has been available for two minutes to explain the amendment that has become an integral part of the draft law because that amendment no longer exists. In any case, it is available for two minutes, and you can see it with insight into the stenograms. There have been cases of the amendment also being adopted by the parent board, and the promoter, but there has been no declaration by the Legislative Committee and the applicant of the amendment has had the right to use for two minutes. Please, People's Messenger Arsic, don't throw it away. The same rules are for me, for you and for everyone. I repeat my request for all objections to my work freely and of course in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but I ask you to leave out valuable people who have done their job in order of amendment and search in particular from the politicalization and interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48488	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Article 103(1), directly following the injury done, Article 107. You've hurt your dignity by accusing me of politicizing, you're assuming personal responsibility for some hardworking people, and I ask you never to do it again. I don't need interpreters from the Serbian language. Because of the public’s insight into what we are talking about, be correct and read Article 166, not only the second position, but also the first position, which says: “The National Assembly in the voting day, after the adoption of the bill in principle, decides on the amendments submitted in accordance with the order of the members of the bill”, followed by the position of the two you have read. There's no such thing as the same application at the hearing. This article is on page 219, time and by the essence of the events in this home later than Article 158 which provides for discussion and search in particular, the possibility that the amendment must have the right to an explanation by the proposings. I ask you in this way not to defend neither the congregation service nor my very reasoned expert debate to be subject to politicization. I would ask you to complete this debate and to agree as people, to request an interpretation from the one who brought this Rules of Procedure, whether the voting provisions can be applied to the search. I won't talk about it anymore, and you can go ahead with your monologues on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48489	There is no violation of Article 107, nor did I in any way compromise the dignity of the National Assembly. I am looking for order at the session and do not allow abuses of the Rules of Procedure to violate the integrity and work of other people who are not able and position to respond to the MPs. Your request for interpretation by procedure, with the assistance of the Secretary-General, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, will be delivered when you assess it as necessary. There is a procedure for the request for interpretation and has been defined by the Rules of Procedure. Is anyone else answering for a word in the debate in particular on Article 1 of the amendment submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48490	The debate on this amendment, which I have already exchanged with the minister and the opinion and mutual gratitude for helping to make the law better, I am just using it to re-necessate you. If Mr. Minister has honestly admitted that Article 2th Amendment of the Parliamentary Group Forwards Serbia's SNS has been amended, because his associates did not agree with the bill, not the scenario of the Assembly, which you are talking about here, with the current Higher Education Act, which is why the amendment was adopted, whose good intentions are this...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48491	Please talk about the agenda. Neither is the Higher Education Act, nor is your discussion with Minister Milan Markovic, on the agenda is a search in particulars and your amendment to Article 1 which you have submitted as a parliamentary group, so please Article 106(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48492	Mrs. Komic, if you don't know, the State Administration Act is on the agenda where two members change. The first is how to look at non-public figures, and because of the electronic communication that gives us that advantage, where we ask that this insight into the data be compared with the inability to abuse and that in Article 2 of that same law, you add, I don't know, you may not be able to monitor it, that the authorities of the state administration must have at least the level of higher education that is directly related to the law and the subject I'm talking about, that's your problem. But for the public, because you're not the subject of my debate, I'll say the following. In an explanation for the refusal of amendments in the disputed part, the amendment was repacked and accepted by the Government on Article 1 and not rejected, part was accepted, and a significant part was rejected, where it is said that the issue of recording the insights achieved, as a matter necessary to regulate another law, is therefore rejected, I remind the public and this assembly of experience with the Consumer Protection Act. The whole section of the basic bill that spoke of interest, where the users of banking services are not protected because they are not familiar with changes to the elements of the contract, but will be regulated in a special part of the Banks Act, we have not yet received such a bill. Whether this explanation that it will be resolved by some other law can satisfy the citizens of Serbia or be enough for me as an excuse to refuse, I argue not. Because we were discussing the Banks Act, but not in the part where citizens are protected from increased interest or difficulties in repaying credit, but you were there that night, but we were here one night to discuss the Law on Banks, which introduces the obligation of the Budget of Serbia to be in charge, without the Public Debt Act, without the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement, without the Public Procurement Act, in order to save the Agency for a bank that the Government considers to be systemicly important, and which may be in trouble, to save the Deposit Insurance Agency. So, the promise that some other law would solve the burning thing has proved to be a promise that should not be trusted, because this Law on Banks, which we changed at one night's session, has been given to the Agency that's been carrying out bankruptcy for eight years at four major banks. She spent 50m euros on the bankruptcy and didn't finish it. She transferred 190m euros to the government for old foreign savings, and somewhere there are 140m euros, respected citizens, armed. At which banks, under what conditions, in a country or abroad, no one knows.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48493	I ask you to be a little closer to the agenda and the State Administration Act with these analogies, banks don't set up state administration institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48494	I'll be your taste today, but according to what the citizens need to hear. If the minister tells me that this insight cannot be fully protected from abuse, whether it is an electronic insight, a card, or a list of the parent book, I will say that it is a problem of the government that is superficial. As provisions of the law are widely read, not members, but provisions, because only under the pressure of the international community that night have amended the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering, where it is explicitly forbidden to hire a person who has never been prosecuted or convicted of the act of abuse of position or of any kind of material abuse. So if we were hiring in the authorities of the state administration people who have never been convicted, we would have no doubt whether anyone today's list and perhaps abuses any data. But whether it was by chance, maybe you missed it, I didn't, that by passing a law, for example, about the municipal police, we allowed the possibility of competing and hiring a person who had and endured a fine for several months, I think even a year. Could this be an excuse for the government to reject the amendment as fully as we have suggested, could be an explanation for a government that does not want to provide citizens with the opportunity to obtain a document, with as little effort as possible, in the use of electronic communications, but at the same time to be protected from all possible abuses. I therefore believe that this amendment was necessary to adopt.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48495	Six minutes of time used by the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic together submitted to the 1st amendment. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48496	Mrs. Komic, we are still at the member of the 1st of these changes and additions. Although this bill has only three members, one of which is general, so no wonder it lasts so long, by saying that I enjoyed this exhaustive discussion, first of all between apparently good lawyers, but I was pleased to hear such exhaustive discussions about this article. I am sorry that there are no more MPs here, especially MPs who make up the parliamentary majority, there are all seven or eight people here, there are no ministers, so to the citizens who are watching this transmission, it seems a little unusual, it turns out that we MPs from the opposition convince each other, and the minister is not there, so we can't convince him to accept these amendments either. So it all seems a little confusing. My amendment refers to the famous Article 1, by proposing that DSS MPs delete Article 3 from the original variant before the Government submitted an amendment to this proposal. The first version was that the way and closer the insights are being made and the data from Article 1 is being obtained by the Government. So that's that proposal we got. Based on this proposal, we have written an amendment, where we propose that the word "Government" be deleted and that, instead of saying "Government" here, words be found or the words "ministration in charge of the affairs of the state administration" or those who have proposed this. Meanwhile, the government has tabled an amendment to its proposal and amended this member, and I have been given the reason that this amendment of mine is not accepted, but because of the subsequent intervention of the Government's amendment to amendments and amendments to the law, the member has been amended. Now I'm going to read you what this amendment really is and what these changes are. In the first two attitudes the word is added when it comes to data that an insight is being made, that it is being obtained and in several places the word is being inserted – processed. That's where it spreads with those words. Paragraph 3 reads this change, in the procedure referred to in Article 1 of this Article, the authorities of the State Administration may take into account, obtain and process only those data which are identified by law or by special regulation as necessary for the resolution of certain rights, obligations or the legal interest of the party. This is, in any case, an improvement compared to that that didn't even exist in this first version. However, when we submitted this amendment, except that we wanted to draw your attention, for example, to the part that wasn't regulated by changes, we wanted to draw your attention that this is a whole process, I won't call it a project, which started by the Ministry of Local Self-Government and the State Administration, and we think that this process should be monitored and further managed by the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government. It is that the Ministry is part of the government, but it is a collective organ. When it comes to this process, which is very sensitive, where various abuses can occur, where there are various dangers, it is good to know which ministry, or state organ is responsible for all of this and who will follow it all. I will refer to a few things that Minister Markovic said in his opening statement when he explained the law. We agree with a lot of things. We believe it is a good thing that the process of issuing documents from home books has started, which is the establishment of a central register of parent books, that it is a good thing that every citizen of Serbia will at some reasonable time when conditions are obtained to obtain a copy of the parent books and anywhere regardless of the area of origin. We also heard it in the presentation of Minister Markovic, that so far it has been entered or that there are about two million entries. I have some friends who talked about how it's a good thing that you can now, if there are conditions in a certain municipality, by electronic means order a copy from the birth certificate, and you can pay for it, I think that service costs about 300 dinars. It's only the first stage of this whole process, that a citizen doesn't have to go to the counter, he doesn't have to travel, but if there's an E administration established in a certain local self-government, that's certainly progress. But like I said, it's only the first step. There is much to be done in order to make it possible for the state authorities to communicate with each other in a quality manner, as this member regulates this mutual relationship between the authorities of the state administration and other bodies, etc. There's been a lot of words here about that some law hasn't been amended so far, that it needs to be changed. The lawyers know that a little better. I'll say, it might be blasphemous for lawyers and experts, why don't we regulate this whole matter by special law? Amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government are announced. There are still amendments and additions to the Administrative Procedure Act. It's all nice. The minister just said that some sectoral laws have parts of it. There's the e-signature bill, the document. In this house, we passed the Cancer Act, and there's the Beer Act. If by law we could regulate such an activity, why wouldn't this be one single law all regulated and plus in sectoral where changes are needed? The lawyers might say it's impossible. I don't see why that's impossible. I think it could solve a lot of problems. There's also been a lot of noise here, and it's completely justified, that there's a great fear of a variety of abuses. The minister said, I'll quote him, that in a few years we'll all be on that base. All citizens of Serbia, with all our personal data, we will hang in the virtual world and be available to those who have certificates, and to those who do not. So these two million entries are already in that database. We're all, I guess, a little under the impression of the WikiLeaks affair, where you have one state that certainly has the most modern technology when it comes to these things, so that's what happens. It's normal then and natural to think about where our technology is, where we are right now, and that we don't need to rush there much, but we need to do it carefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48497	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs from the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go. It is available to the parliamentary group for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48498	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in our desire to fix the bill, we have submitted an amendment on behalf of the parliamentary group, Forward Serbia's SNS. However, what in a whole of this kind of bill and discussion is that one particular fear prevails, and that is what we have talked about, is that there may be certain abuses in the functioning of the State Administration Act. The minister is even on several occasions talking about how he as the minister responsible for the state administration and local self-government is the one who adheres to the letters of the law and that no single illegal act has come out of his ministry, that he has never misused his position as minister and that he is doing his job in accordance with the law. I wish Mr. Minister were here, because I hold in my hands a few documents that say something completely different. You know, usually when it comes to just some administrative procedure, so let's just say if someone who's been doing it there has changed all the authorities, but not because he's been courting the authorities, but he's learned and studied the job, then it's a procedure that's probably going to be done in accordance with the law. But if that's what the secretary of state does and politics gets involved, then the law doesn't have a "z" in it. Only someone calls for the law, but the act, and the administrative act they bring, is not in accordance with the law. It is about acts that came in late July and early August of this year. It is about acts relating to one of the smallest, least developed and poorest municipalities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and certainly the smallest and poorest municipality on the territory of Braničev County. The DS, headed by its minister, is adopting an administrative act to bring the DS to power contrary to the Law on Local Self-Government, contrary to the Ministry Act. You don't choose a way, you don't choose anything. It's important that the DS be in power. In the letter, SO Golubac, signed by Minister Milan Markovic, on July 29th 2010, said there are some two parliamentary majoritys there and the minister engages in what is the assembly's majority of rights. According to him, she is the right that has chosen a certain Zoran Pajkic as president of the municipality. He says – the 16th committee is a certain Ana Radomirovic, whose mandate was suspended by the Assembly's decision, then by the application of an unconstitutional member 47. Law on local elections. That same, then the District Court, annuls that decision. However, it does not say anywhere in this act that the local self-government unit has carried out the decision of the District Court, or the Higher Court in Pozarevec, but that at the time, Ana Radomirovic stopped applying Article 46. Local Self-Government Act, Item 1st point 6. In point 6 of point 1 of this Article, the following point is added: The Law on Local Self-Government says that the mandate of the committee ceases before the time he was elected, if he changes... (President: People's Parliament, please on the subject of the agenda. The law on local self-government is not the subject of our work. The subject of our work is to amend and supplement the State Administration Act. I'm just stating examples of how our state administration works. The example is how they treated the municipality and a local self-government unit, where the minister emerged from his authority. Nothing more. In accordance with Article 46 of the Committee, the term of office shall cease when it leaves the territory of the municipality from which it has been elected. (President: National MP, this cannot be tolerated as the respect of Article 106(1). Please, on the subject of the agenda. ) At that time, the term of office, not by the assembly's will and by the no-will of the council, ends, but by the force of the law. The Ministry's still getting into it. (President: National MP, I am obliged by the Rules of Procedure to warn the People's MP of violation of Article 106(1) to remind him of this and then to be bound by a member who implies a statement of action, if the MP insists on violating the provisions of Article 106(1). Please, about the agenda. ) Please, this is about the administrative act issued by the state authority. It's about the State Administration Act. The ministry is part of the state administration, and it issues administrative acts, not to mention how they authorized individuals to make a stamp, even though it wasn't brought... (President: National MP, here it is that you have the time available for a parliamentary group, which no one can take away from you, and that the current search is in particular on the amendment submitted by your parliamentary group which has been accepted and became an integral part of the bill, that is what this is about. Please, let the subject of your discussion be what is the subject of our agenda, or what this is about, and that is the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on State Administration. Madam Chairman, I completely understand you, it's the DS that's being talked about, it's about the minister who's your party colleague. (President: People's MP, you don't understand me at all. If you understood me, you would understand that I am talking to you about article 106, about your obligation to talk about the agenda, because I understand you. I've been listening very carefully to what you're saying for five minutes, expecting you to bring your discussion into line with the subject of the agenda. Since you have 15 minutes at your disposal as a parliamentary group, in the fifth minute I remind you of the provision of Article 106(1) to speak on the agenda. So, unfortunately, there is a misunderstanding, but not on my side. Please, about the agenda. ) You know what, Madam Chairman, it is obvious that it is your desire to teach us how we want to talk and what examples of how local self-government works, how the state administration works, etc. This is about the very draft law, in relation to the state administration and the units of local self-government run by a particular register. I just wanted to give you a few examples. (Chairman: People's MP, this is about amending and supplementing the law, please, the Rules of Procedure oblige you to listen to me. We are currently discussing the review in particular of the amendment to Article 2 submitted by your parliamentary group, which has become an integral part of the bill, this is the topic of the agenda. Please, all kinds of creative approach and width, but on the subject of the agenda. ) It is obvious that you and I do not have the same approach on how to plead at the meetings of the Assembly, discussing, giving examples of the abuse of ministers. I'm giving up the debate further, and I don't think you've helped Mr. Minister here to defend himself, but it's not my fault, nor that self-invited president of the municipality of Golubac Zoran Pajkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48499	Six minutes has been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word, since it's the last amendment, which is being searched in detail? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. This concludes the morning part of our session. I'm setting a break. Before I say when we will continue this afternoon, I am informing the National Assembly, on the basis of Articles 90 and 87, that we will be working today even after 1800 hours, and until the end of the search in the particulars of point 4, where we begin the afternoon session at 1515 hours. Thank you. [[After break – 15/15]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session in the afternoon. We move to item 4 of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Military, Labour and Material Obligation (specificity) Before we continue to work, I would like to welcome again the students of the Faculty of Civil Security who are visiting the National Assembly today, one major group at 12.00 hours, these most persistent, welcome to the National Assembly session. Fourth item of the agenda, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on military, labour and material obligations. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delic, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borislav Pelevic, Milet Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mico Rogović, Vuceta Tošković, Dragan Colić, Zlata Djerić, Aleksandra Janković and Aleksandar Ilic and National MP Dragan Todorovic. You have received reports from the Committee on Defence and Security, the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. National MP Mico Rogovic, in writing, withdrew amendments to Articles 2 and 9. It's a bill of law. Since the Legislative Committee is under Article 163(2), The Rules of Procedure, as incomplete, rejected the group's amendment of 21 MPs to the Progressive Group of Serbia, which is added after Article 9a. I remind you, according to Article 163(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, rejected amendments cannot be discussed and are not voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. The word has the People's MP Otto Kishmarton.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48501	Dear fellow MPs, the SNS has submitted more amendments to this legislative proposal. During the amendments, we aimed at correcting the legislative proposal, to make the law easier to apply in favour of Serbia's military and citizens. We want our army to be equipped, strong, respected in our people, as well as in the world. So, our goal is to fix the bill. This law should provide a normative legal framework for voluntary military service. However, this law cannot regulate voluntary military service, since it differs significantly from compulsory military service on the basis of a recruiting obligation. Amendments and additions to only a few of the provisions of this law cannot be addressed, as provisions are obtained that are incomplete, unclear, which will lead to many problems in application. Voluntary service differs significantly from compulsory service, and therefore both the legal position and the rights and obligations of soldiers must be arranged in a different way. This can be done by passing a special law that would settle this issue in a perfectly clear way. We have proposed erasing this provision, and another amendment has suggested that this issue be regulated by a special law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48502	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs from the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 2nd amendment. The word has the People's MP Otto Kishmarton.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48503	Dear fellow Members of the People, by amendment to Article 2. We wanted to amend this law, and we proposed to the amendment, that is, Article 2 a new position that reads – voluntary military service is governed by a special law. In fact, the regulation of voluntary military service to government regulations does not comply with the Constitution. The government can only lay down regulations for law enforcement, and such a provision creates conditions that the government originally regulates the rights and obligations of persons who voluntarily serve the military term. That question was not fully settled in this way, nor by any other law. Voluntary military service differs significantly from compulsory service with respect to the rights and obligations of soldiers, and this must be regulated in a completely different way by law. Since it wasn't done by this law, it's more celibate to regulate it with a special law than to make changes to this law. If it were to be regulated by this law, it would be necessary to add a whole chapter that would only settle the issue, but in that case there could be problems in interpreting the law, and it is better for that reason to pass a special law. Under such a law, the Government could lay down regulations that would bring questions within the meaning of Article 123. The Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48504	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The word has a folk MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48505	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, both in principle and in this debate, the position of the SNS was to go through a special law with changes to this law. In particular, here the addition of point 2 is contradictory in the introduction to point 1 where it is located, because this provision applies only to military officials, or persons subject to military obligations, and persons who voluntarily serve the military term do not comply with military obligations and do not serve the military on this basis as those persons are. Thus, the proposed application of this member's change will cause confusion in the application of the law and create very controversial situations that would compromise the voluntary service of the military term. You, Mr. Minister, last year, about this time, promised that from 1 December and 1 January 2011 the professional army would be fully introduced and I am taking the opportunity to ask the question – how full is this sector at this point? Given the situation that what has really been really important in the past these days, which is that the reputation of the military has been restored to first place on all the important elements, is it because of the application of the law, because of the situation in the state, because of the inability of employment and especially the situation that 11,000 of these persons are planned and there are 2,000 women reported? Do you think it's just because of the situation in which the Republic of Serbia is located, the inability to hire in all sectors, or is it important to repair the material position and situation in the Army of the Republic of Serbia, and so is the reputation and situation different? You yourself said that we have four applications for one candidate in this section, and when we enroll in military schools, military academy, we even have a situation that also sees the armies very important and satisfying in that part, that there are about 20 candidates, nine to 20, and sometimes there are 14 candidates in military academia. By improving the material situation and the situation in the military, the state of the technique and other parameters have affected this, or the inability to hire in any area, the employment of the budget, and the number of people registered for the academy and military schools is growing impressively?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48506	A minute and 10 seconds of MP time have been used. The word is made by Minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48507	I think you asked the question in a good way. If you look at sociologically and through the country's standard, certainly all armies in the world are more popular where the lower standard of living is and that, in some ways, the presence of patriotism may be higher than the more liberal parts of the country, and that of all the countries in the world. The fact is that today the Army has become a great employer and that a large number of young people see themselves right in the military, because it is a possibility to make progress, to earn some money, to ensure their future and their family. But I also think that we have managed to avoid the possibility of having an affair over the past three and a half years, that we have managed to avoid all possible emergency events that have been very common in Serbia's military during 2004, 2005 and 2006 and that those extraordinary events that we have had very clearly demystified and very quickly show the public what happened. I'm not going to say that there were no emergency events, we had more deaths and more planes fell, but we don't have any emergency events that remained secret and that people don't know how it finally ended. What I want to tell you and where I participated directly is the question of running for members of the Military Academy, i.e. the cadet cannot be considered in a way that is now the only option for employment, because simply, the Military Academy has received new pitomats in the 1990s, and in 2000, as in 2006, when 21 candidates applied and in 2010 when 1,259 candidates applied, which is about 60 times more than just four years before that. We also offered employment in 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, as well as in 2010, by thinking that only now we were able to restore the trust of the citizens of Serbia, and thus the trust of young people. What is very important, and you have had the opportunity to see in research done by international institutions, which is that enormous confidence has increased precisely in the structure of young people up to 30 years, and that was our goal. I think that the campaign that we had among the citizens and the campaign that is visible on the media, as well as the campaign run by our guard and the military in the bar, has all contributed to young people seeing the army not only as a possibility of employment but as an institution in which they trust. Today you will have the opportunity to see in the media, or tomorrow in the printed media, that the Serbian Army, along with the Church, is also recognized as the least corrupt institution. I believe that by any chance the question and the army was asked in an opportunity to analyse itself, that the citizens of Serbia would not even mention the military as such. There are a number of different factors affecting the return of popularity, on the one hand, but what is more important is the return of confidence in Serbia's Army. I must say that the biggest contribution to this is just the members of the Serbian Army who have set themselves up for their jobs in a more responsible way.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48508	Three minutes and 30 seconds of government time have been used. Anyone else want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Vlajko Senić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48509	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, I only report to lean on this discussion and I think that the good question opened by a fellow SNS, and this is that the Army in Serbia, as well as in every other part of the world, is being given a second dimension. Even if the predominant motivation of someone to apply for professional military service is to get a job, I wouldn't see it as some kind of negative context. On the contrary, I think it's just the first step in a society's consciousness about what role the military can play in one country. I believe that in some future period, if this trend of reform and modernization of the military continues, and I'm sure that's what's going to happen, that this will be the case, the Army will use other potentials that it has. It is one institution that has its internal importance of stability, which it has shown over the past period, and a significant economic potential in one country that has a lot of problems with the export orientation of the economy. We are talking today from an economic point of view about the military as a single branch which is already not only a potentially important factor in the Serbian export economy, as an institution that plays a decisive role in Serbia's security policy and as an institution that also makes a significant contribution to the country's Euro-Atlantic path in foreign policy. Therefore, this whole story of military professionalisation obviously has a much broader context that comes out of this technical matter that since 1 January 2011, the Serbian Army will be a professional army, but a completely one change in the image of our military institution in Serbian society and making a serious basis for the military's potential to be used properly. So, that citizens do not recognize the army as one force in the state, paid by taxpayers for, God forbid, a time when it should defend us from some aggression, but that it is an organization and institution that makes a huge contribution both in the peacetime and which can give great importance to the development potentials of our country. I think that this debate on professionalisation opened for the first time in the public debate on the role of the Serbian Army in the peacetime and the fact that the Serbian Army in the peacetime is no burden on taxpayers, that citizens are paying out of their budget to be able to fight in five, ten or 50 years, but that the Serbian Army has a very significant function, even more significant than it is during the war. I think that such an approach has led to all relevant public opinion research saying that trust in the military as an institution has returned and that it is now at a high, very respectable level, although in the recent past we have had very big problems that have been related to the military. So, from one difficult situation, she comes out as an institution that citizens, and those who work directly there, and those who don't work in the military, recognize as an institution that they have a lot of confidence in. I am sure that such a trend will continue in the future. That's why it's a good thing we're passing this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48510	It's been used for three minutes and 40 seconds by an authorised representative. Anyone else want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Jankovic and Aleksandra Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Jankovic and Aleksandra Ilic? Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Ambassador Jadranko Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48511	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party has tabled an amendment to Article 7 with a proposal to be in Article 24. The Law on Military, Working and Material Obligation adds Article 3 which reads: The President of the Republic, on a proposal from the Minister of Defence and with the prior consent of the National Assembly's working body responsible for the issue of defence and security, may shorten the duration of military service for a particular party of soldiers for a maximum of 15 days. "Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, otherwise I have proposed a decision to suspend military service is not disputed because it seeks to professionalise the army, but rather a controversial way in which it is established in these circumstances and at this particular moment. In the light of the decision, it is stated that the suspension of the obligation to serve the military term shall carry out the obligations laid down in Article 135(4). The law on military, labour and material obligations. The member prescribes that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will suspend the obligation to serve the military term after full professionalisation of the Serbian Army. From the reasons left out, it cannot be concluded that professionalisation has been carried out. According to Serbia's defence strategy, the military should have 10,918 professional soldiers, and it is expected that more than 90% of the formation posts will be filled by the end of 2010. Gentlemen, the applicant of this proposal was obliged to inform us of the structure of those 10,918 members, to be informed of what kind of army is developing, how many members belong to individual species. In my opinion, it's normal for the Air Force and the anti-aircraft defense, as the most technologically developed kind of military, to have the most professional members of the army. Here I think of the professional-technical learning chamber, this also applies to missile units, armored artillery, etc. However, we don't know any of that, so we suspect that now the military will be stronger if it is professionalized, as suggested. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia has changed the military's earlier role, assuming that we will join in some military defence alliance, that the military no longer defends sovereignty and territory. Someone predicted that the military only participates in the execution of international contracts and defenses against terrorism. Mr. Minister, you should inform us about the size and structure of the military force in the environment, and above all I think that the occupied territory of the Republic of Serbia and Metohija and the Republic of Croatia, the neighbouring Republic of Croatia, given their developmental technological possibilities, and the cost of costing a professional soldier for the budget, so that we know immediately how much this costs the state, or whether we are able to financially endure military professionalisation, provided that from now on we become stronger, i.e. that the security of the state was raised to a higher level. Furthermore, we should bear in mind that we have not developed an emergency ministry and that we do not currently have free human capacities in the event of natural disasters, such as floods, fires and earthquakes. The issues have so far been successfully covered by the contingent of soldiers on compulsory military service. You, Mr. Minister, were the responsible man among the first to be in the King and you yourself were publicly inviting citizens to help their neighbours whose homes were threatened, torn down, etc. So this is a big problem for me. Also, there remains a vague law on voluntary military service, because we are unable to see what interest there is, whether anyone will be able to serve a military deadline whoever wants it, and how this right of citizens will be realised in practice. We remind, for example, Switzerland which is a neutral country that has a very developed defence system, with a combination of professionalization and compulsory training. So, Mr. Minister, I expect you to answer these questions so that we can make a statement about your proposal to make a decision on the termination of the general military obligation.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48512	Five minutes and 30 seconds used by the MP's group. The word is made by Minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48513	In the opening presentation, I personally listed the size of all the armies in the environment. You have the opportunity to see this exposure on the Ministry of Defence site and to hear exactly how many there are, but I will tell you that, in relation to the numerous state of the population in Serbia, we have about half of it, which is among the highest percentages in Europe, after Turkey and Greece. Croatia has about 18,000 members of its ministry. If we subtract a number of states that exist in their navy, you will see that this is more than twice as much compared to the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Serbia, so objectively, if you analyse the military, as the generals would say, that someone would overpower you, sometimes it is not enough for him to have seven times as much force as it was on Cera, but a minimum of three times the force is needed, and they do not have two or even three countries in the environment, except Romania. At this point, the military's fullness is about 84% of the professionals and, as you know, we've just sent the last party of recruits who left from December 1st to December 3rd to serve the military deadline, in response to around 98%, so today we've got a total of almost 100% fill-up. What I must point out is that the process of professionalization is not a process that was initiated by my arrival at the head of the Ministry of Defence, that the process of professionalization began in the 1980s, when the JNAs first began to receive so-called. Contractors and who were already taking certain positions that could not be carried out by ordinary soldiers. With a contract with the people on 19 August 2000, signed since then by all DOS leaders, we have promised to carry out military professionalism, at the time of the Yugoslav Army, and we end the job after 10 years. Unfortunately, at some point, I have to say that it wasn't working, but we've accepted the plan since 2003 and 2008 and we've really tried to get this job done in time and we've completed it within the deadline. After the end of this year, we will practically have a fully professionalized army, with when you say "end of professionalization", we can declare it today, because no army has a hundred percent completeness. You know it's a living organism, that people go out, when they come out, competition is called, so reception, so training, etc. And it's always a number of states less than 100%, so we can say today that we have a country-wide fill-up in the environment. What's also important to know, if you have any indication that anyone in the environment is a threat to us, they've already professionalized their armies years ago. We are also threatened by professional armies, not recruiting, so we answer to them with a professional army, but you must also know that we have more members of the Ministry of Defence today than in 2007, when I became defence minister. Back then, we had a recruiting band, and today, professionally. If we say that one professional is worth four recruits, then you can see that our operating ability is even higher than it was three and a half years ago when we had a recruit. On the matter of the ministry of emergency, there are more systems or more opportunities for such a ministry to develop, either as a ministry, either as an independent agency, either as a sector in the Ministry of Defence, or as a sector in the interior ministry. We decided in the government to be like the sector in the MUP, because their capacity at the moment was even more significant, because emergency situations mean, first of all, fire extinguishing, where their capacity is higher, because fire units are right in the MUP system. If you ask me if that's the best way, I'll tell you that I personally think it's better to have an independent agency, that agency can be like the American "Fema" or the Russian "Emmercom" that it works and that this independent agency can apply much easier for projects beyond our country's borders and win, because when you apply as members of the MUP, you come across a problem. However, what is the fact that in all emergency situations there is so-called. The crisis headquarters, that at the local level, this crisis staff is chaired or commanded by the mayor or the president of the municipality, and that, as a rule, without exception, there are more representatives present than police, military, emergency sector, etc. So, we've been on the king's ground for the first day, as well as on the ground in southwestern Serbia where the floods are, depending on the needs defined by the commander or that entire headquarters that hires us. To keep the army in regular composition on the principle of compulsory military service in order to participate in ceasefire or in a rescue after an earthquake I think it's absolutely illogical, on the one hand, extremely expensive and really hard to justify taking some young people six months to sit in the barracks and wait if a flood happens then act, because we do have, I say, an identical number of people who are professionals who can act and fulfil all three missions defined by law. I don't know where you quoted it from that we're supposed to meet only internationally accepted obligations. We have an army law, a very modern law, which was passed here about a year ago, which defines all three missions to be completed by the Serbia Army and the country's defence and civilian assistance, but also by participation in multinational peacekeeping missions. So, believe me, this debate is simply not true and obviously you have read some document that is not based on a document adopted in parliament right here, called the Army Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48514	Six minutes and 30 seconds of time spent at the disposal of a government representative. The People's MP, Jovan Palalic, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48515	The President-in-Office, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have come to the attention of this amendment, given that the reasoning given as a reason for the refusal of this amendment has prompted me to simply analyse the authority of the President of the Republic in Article 17. The Law on the Army and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in Article 112(2), where it is difficult to find a legal basis and a basis for the reason for the refusal of this amendment, i.e. where the basis for authorising the President of the Republic can be found, and on the basis of defined competences in the area of command which he has both in the Constitution and in the Law on the Army. In general, the topic concerning the position and competence of the President of the Republic when it comes to security, defined by the Law on the Army and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as well as in this case, in our case, goes beyond the framework defined by the Constitution and the law, but also in other segments concerning the security, message and statements we hear and how they go beyond the framework given by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. One of these is a message and statements concerning Serbia's relations and concrete countries in the NATO Pact environment and in general the policies of our country and the government of the Republic of Serbia towards integration into this military alliance. All of this is, we have talked more than once in this National Assembly, printed with a series of situations where we do not have enough information, where we do not have enough honest information about what really seems to be and whether something seems in the process of approaching Serbia's NATO pact, although we have an official assembly declaration of military neutrality, which was adopted three years ago, right in this room, in December. Two statements that encourage reflection are that public debate needs to be opened, primarily, no matter how many representatives of the government have had a public opinion survey that a large number of Serbian citizens are against joining the NATO pact. But if we have a statement by the President of the Republic, when meeting with Montenegrin President Filip Vujanovic, where Tadic said that Serbia supports Montenegro's path to EU and NATO membership, he stressed that full membership of Montenegro into NATO would be important for the security of the entire region. I would remind the distinguished minister that a year and a few days ago we brought a very important document to the National Assembly – a National Security Strategy where, although it was highlighted at that time, a step has not gone further into defining the threats posed by the NATO Security of Serbia Pact itself, but in a number of matters concerning the security of the Republic of Serbia and the engagement of this military alliance in the Balkan area and specifically in the area of KIM and the fact that there is a threat to the security of the Republic of Serbia. This statement by the President of the Republic is odd at least because the issue of the security of the Balkans, if Serbia has an official policy of military neutrality, that policy should represent the president of the Republic, and supports other countries in the region to enter the NATO Pact, with the reason that it contributes to regional stability, then it says that Serbia also wants to, using the situation of presence or integration or progress in those integrations of other countries in the Balkans to the NATO Pact, to come into a situation to explain to citizens and change the mood of citizenship in the sense that our security in such an environment will be only possible through NATO's accession to the pact. In an indirect manner, we can say, and more openly says NATO Secretary-General Anders von Rasmussen, who said in Sofia on 20 May 2010 - I call not only on Serbian political leaders, but also on the Serbian people, to look into the future and carefully consider the situation, to come to the conclusion that Serbia's future is in integration with NATO and the EU's Atlantic communities. The secretary-general said he would make the most of it to join Serbia's alliance, with a step-by-step approach, as requested by the Serbian side. The issue is here also for Minister Sutanovac – whether such a conversation is being conducted, whether Serbia's plan or Serbia's steps towards joining NATO's pact is defined, particularly first to the MAP, and further according to full membership. These are serious and important topics, and I think it is fair to talk about them openly, regardless of the political differences, regardless of the consequences in the electoral body, because the issue of the security of the Republic of Serbia and the preservation of its territorial integrity is the most important issue to deal with in Serbia, the President of the Republic, and, of course, all the MPs. I am saying this in light of the adopted national security strategy, which has defined many threats concerning what is happening in KIM and that, even the minister said several times, which is the NATO Pact, when it comes to supporting the Kosovo Protection Corps and strengthening the forces of those institutions below, in the self-proclaimed state of Kosovo. I want to point out these problems here through documents adopted at the last NATO Pact summit in Lisbon. In addition, this statement by President Tadic was made just the day the NATO Pact summit was held in Lisbon. The part concerning this issue of support for the Kosovo Protection Corps, NATO, has been pactified in a declaration adopted at this summit at point 5, where the progress under the auspices of the NATO Pact has been practically welcomed by this Kosovo Protection Corps, in terms of improving human rights, stability in the area of our southern province, and it is said that it is now able to carry out its mission, that the NATO Pact will come into a position to reduce its forces to KIM. It is simply amazing that the Kosovo Protection Corps, which makes terrorists, members of the organisation that fought against the state of Serbia, are now under the supervision and support of the NATO Pact, making such progress in protecting the citizens below, protecting human rights and here, which is particularly interesting, as they say in this declaration, to protect minorities in the area of KIM. That's the main problem. We have already had a debate here on whether the NATO pact is neutral about Kosovo and Metohija's status. Through documents adopted at this summit in a series of provisions, there is no neutrality, but rather very and very clear and determined on the position of the NATO Pact when it comes to the status of our southern province. On the one hand, the NATO Pact supports the territorial integrity of certain countries, specifically supporting Armenia's territorial integrity, Azerbaijan, Georgia and Moldova, and does not mention Serbia. This is said in light of the crisis situations that exist in these countries, and does its presence in KIM talk about a crisis situation in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and did it need to be called upon to respect the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia? No, because for NATO, Kosovo's independence pact is a done deal. When it comes to NATO's stance on the KIM pact, point 19 of the declaration encourages progress made on KIM in the area of respect for law. Gentlemen, do we all live in the same country and do we know what happens down there in real terms when it comes to Serbs and other non-Albanian communities? It is then said that the progress of these institutions is supported below by separatists towards the protection of ethnic minorities, thinking that Serbs in their own state are an ethnic minority. All these things say that in no way is the NATO Pact impartial in this matter. Why are we opening this topic? Serbia joined the Partnership for Peace in 2006. After that, something fundamentally threatened the security of the Republic of Serbia in 2008, the declaration of independence by separatist institutions in the KIM area, where the assembly put the decision out of force. After that, we are coming into a situation, and this is also seen on the basis of statements made by NATO's representatives of the pact and what we see at point 18, which speaks of Serbia's commitment to Euro-Atlantic integration and the acceleration of the whole process towards the NATO Pact. Instead of considering the matter from the point of view of security, the real interests of the Republic of Serbia, we want to speed up the whole process to join this alliance as soon as possible, which is in no way neutral about our security. On the other hand, we have, this is a question that we need to talk about, and I would also like to hear the opinion of the Minister, the message and the offer that a new concept of security is being debated in the space of Europe and the entire area. We all know that security is indivisible, that threats are all the same, and that is not disputed, it is in the strategy stated and in this sense the initiative that was heard here by Russian Federation President Dmitri Medvedev, with us only "we are carefully considering this initiative". In a situation where we have such experiences, we need to see what our real interests are and what our real need is when it comes to security. Based on our membership in the Partnership for Peace, we have representatives in the NATO Pact Parliamentary Assembly. We have a call from the Parliamentary Assembly to organise a collective security agreement, the ODKB, to also participate as a state of Serbia in the work of the Parliamentary Assembly. We have had a complete audience on this call sent by the President of the Parliamentary Assembly, Mr Boris Grizlov, but I think it is in Serbia's interest to be present in all security organisations where key security issues are being decided at this time in Europe and the world, respecting the fact that an intensive dialogue is being conducted between the Russian Federation and the NATO Pact, as seen at this summit. Therefore, it is necessary to review all aspects of co-operation under the Partnership for Peace programme until these issues concerning the threat of territorial integrity and security by the NATO Pact and their presence in the KIM area are clarified. In that sense, I call for open dialogue, without the fact that we are sworn in a declaration of military neutrality, and on the other hand we are doing something else, regardless of whether someone who is currently popular in the electoral body is not going to make certain political points, that we are talking about whether it is our interest to join this military alliance, and obviously, through a statement by the Secretary General, much does Serbia go that way. We deeply believe that it is not the interest of Serbia to be a member of the NATO Pact and that its security strategies must be defined in a different way, in co-operation with all organisations that consider security and presence through a partnership for peace, of course, considered in what extent after these events, but also in the Parliamentary Assembly of the organisation of collective security arrangements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48516	14 minutes of MP time was used. The word is made by Minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48517	I think we've had a fair and open discussion here in the Assembly, and if you think we should open more stuff, it's not hard to do. I don't know what the declaration of neutrality is and what it's called, the declaration of neutrality, and when parliament brought a declaration of neutrality and why we didn't go to a referendum to ask the citizens if they accepted the declaration of neutrality? There is a great truth being told in parliament, and it goes beyond parliament, it is that there is a declaration of neutrality that was adopted in Serbia's parliament. There is a declaration concerning KIM in which Serbia is found to be neutral. It's a fact state and it is. Also, what you need to know when criticising the National Security Strategy that you are referring to because it is undecided in relation to Euro-Atlantic integration, the National Security Strategy proposal, made up by the ministry before I came to the head of the ministry, had very clear Euro-Atlantic initiatives. So, all policies until May 2007, until the formation of a government headed by Kostunica, the defence policy was defined by Euro-Atlantic integration. The government has introduced Serbia into a Partnership for Peace. The government has decided to send our peacemakers, 24 officers, officers, doctors and several officers who are related to Afghanistan, along with the Norwegian contingent. The government decided to first land U.S. aircraft bombers at Batajnica Airport in 1999. The government has had an extremely large distribution of co-operation with Ohio Guards, etc. So, openly speaking of this, it does not begin the history of Serbia's relations with NATO from the moment I became a minister, but the biggest steps in Serbia's accession to integration were made in 2006, just when the prime minister of the government was Mr Vojislav Kostunica. What is a fact, it is that from the moment the KIM declaration was adopted, which determines that Serbia is neutral, we function and work based on this situation and we have never made a plan for anyone or presented a plan for any crawling or any other accession. You can read whoever you want, quote whoever you want, but you need to know, as I'm telling you, that all the documents signed by my predecessor bear the Euro-Atlantic integration mark, so all the documents I'm reading will be made available to a new minister, so you'll be able to check all that in a situation where someone new comes to run the Ministry of Defense and see who's only speaking honestly and openly, and who's hiding behind their decisions and who's trying to figure out today that those decisions haven't been made. What is important to know, that Switzerland is not an EU member does not mean that it does not adopt ISO standards, does not mean that it does not use the euro three engines, does not mean that there is no euro diesel. So, Switzerland is a country that respects all world standards and NATO standards. Serbia too. If we want to advance in science, in medicine, in education, in parliamentaryism, we must respect the standards that someone has already established and which are better than the situation in Serbia. Our desire is to standardize our army according to the world's best recognised standard, which weighs absolutely all the armies of the world. That shouldn't be controversial. It is our desire to get close, to qualify for NATO standards and only Serbia's desire to modernise and accept instead of our computer that was the size of this room to accept a small laptop that can be put into one pocket today. The bottom line of our entire NATO-related activity is to raise our military operational capabilities, adopt standards, be modern and modern, to participate globally throughout the world. For what reason? For the same reason President Putin said when terrorism occurred in Beslan or President Bush when terrorism took place in the collapse of two towers. It's to protect our country's interest wherever they are in the world. With who? With our partners. Who are our partners? All the countries of the world who want to participate in peace missions together with us, from Uruguay, who was with us the other day, through China and even Japan. I appreciate the throw, but you're defocusing me a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48518	Please, no direct communication from the Minister and the People's MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48519	I've never had this much support from radicals. Don't be angry. I'm a little confused. To get things back to square one. We talk in an open and honest way all the time. I'm just wondering if you're going to return the military service when you're in a situation to change Serbia, which is not going to happen soon, or if you're going to support this law and say that what Vojislav Kostunica signed in 2000, exactly on 19 August, in front of the people of Serbia, which is a contract with the people, whether you support it at the vote or not? That's what relationships are all about. The story of NATO today, about integrations today, has nothing to do with what we are bringing today, and in particular it has nothing to do with your amendment, which suggests that the president can, on a proposal from the minister, with the Parliament's prior consent being obtained, shorten the military term by 15 days. If we were to discuss what 15 days mean now, the Parliament's proposal, do you think that's really necessary, in a situation where there's something going on in the country, in a situation where the military is being served for three months, and then you're on an annual vacation that lasts two months. So, we're giving the President of the Republic as a man who, I say, is supremely responsible for the defense system, that, on a proposal from those who are experts, and certainly, as far as our General Staff is concerned, we can reduce the military time in a situation where we don't need to train soldiers and pay the price of that decision, and we have a sufficient number of our professionals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48520	Six minutes and 45 seconds have been used since the time for the government's representative. The amendment you quoted was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. National MP Jovan Palalic only participated in the debate. Right on line, MP Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48521	When it comes to the adopted declaration and the name of the adopted declaration in the National Assembly, it is true that the declaration applied to KIM. But it wasn't just a finding of military neutrality. The reasons why the RS military neutrality is declared are very important and are tied to the NATO Pact. Because of NATO's role in the KIM pact, NATO's support for the separatist aspirations on KIM. Mr. Minister, that formulation was then adopted by representatives of all political parties in the National Assembly. There's a NATO pact defined as a threat, and there's a defined reason why we can't be in the NATO Pact. Because it supports the secession of KIM. As far as the whole process and activities within the Partnership for Peace are concerned, you're right. It's all done, but in the debate it's trying to ignore it. He's trying to ignore the fact that something happened in 2008. When that happens, for sure and when it comes to European integration, and when it comes to the NATO Pact and the Partnership for Peace, we need to look at things in a different light. The activity and procedure until February 2008, to the extent that we have access to the Partnership for Peace, no one is talking about the issue of standards, is absolutely something that is not at stake. But the measure of co-operation in a situation where someone, a military alliance or a political organisation, influences that Serbia is losing part of its territory and supports it, it requires conversation, clarification. What are you doing there about Kosovo and the Protection Corps? What do you support these people, the people who were in Kosovo terrorist organisations that killed Serbs?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48522	Two minutes. Minister Dragan Sutanovac has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48523	I must say, what you're saying is false. The cooling of relations with NATO is just beginning at the moment when NATO decides to support the formation of Kosovo security forces, not the KPC. The KPC has existed since the time of Slobodan Milosevic. Since then, we have not had meetings of the Chiefs of Staff and KFOR commanders recently and we have had very tensile relations related to this support that NATO has given, in addition to its mission, to the formation of Kosovo security forces. However, what you should know, Kosovo's security forces are formed by shutting down the KPC force in the size of 5,000 people and forming a force of 2,500 people. So, twice as much as it used to be. So that story, even if considered a threat, is a double threat compared to what it was. On the other hand, when you talk about NATO today and that NATO wants to secede KIM, we need to be aware that there are both states and representatives of the states who, contrary to what you're talking about, are doing, and not just working, but also voting. It is Greece, Romania, Slovakia and Spain. These are NATO countries, highly respected NATO countries, some more, some less, but very respected. With Spain, Greece and Romania are extremely powerful armies, etc., and these are countries that do not support the secession of KIM. What is the Serbian army doing in the situation in which it is? The Serbian military is currently agreeing with Slovakia to participate in a peace mission in Cyprus and Spain to negotiate participation in a peacekeeping mission in Lebanon. Why with them? I suppose it's not hard for you to figure it out yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48524	A minute and 55 seconds of time has been used for an authorised representative. Ambassador Vlajko Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48525	I would get involved in this debate because I support what Mr. Palalic said that we need a public debate. I would not like to have double standards, and that when the resolution he is calling for was passed, I do not remember that there were any public debates, I do not remember that there was a referendum, that Serbian citizens were invited to polling stations to give their ruling on whether Serbia should or should not be in a declaration on Kosovo to declare military neutrality. So if that was the case then, I don't see why tomorrow would be different if some other majority in the Serbian Parliament assessed politically, economically or safely that declaration should change. Secondly, I'm glad Minister Sutanovac said things the way they say that it is absolutely no declaration of military neutrality. As a lawyer, you know well that military neutrality can live in some practice when you sign, as is the case with Switzerland, a treaty that other countries recognise your military neutrality. What we brought in 2007 in December or November of the Declaration of Military Neutrality, I will tell you that at that time you were more concerned that the 2008 presidential elections would end than with the KIM decision. That was the essence of the whole story. The story of the KIM Declaration was a cover for trying to support your candidate Tomislav Nikolic informally in the presidential elections. That's what this is about. It's not about any military neutrality. Today we are living with the consequences of such a declaration and we must have an open debate on what the future security path of Serbia will be like without prejudice, you will allow each of us to have the right to say what they think, as you think the state should enter into what you say about the KDKB, I do not believe that the ODKB came yesterday. No one has prevented you from introducing Serbia in 2006 or 2007 into the ODKB institutions, and I think if we look at public opinion research that we are not correct towards Serbian citizens, because 67% of Serbian citizens think that Serbia should be part of a regional, or global security system. When you ask them if they're for NATO, then that number is, of course, smaller. We can talk about whether it is 20% or 25%, but there is awareness among Serbian citizens about the need for Serbia to be part of the global security system. It is up to us to give a certain political vision about whether to be in the Partnership for Peace, whether that is enough, whether to be in NATO or to hang out with countries in the ODKB, but in any case, it is not necessary to transfer that kind of political decision to citizens. I would say that protecting behind NATO has now become some sort of impediment point of various political parties that cannot be joined on another topic. At this point, it is not a topic for Serbia and there is no government that can bring Serbia secretly into NATO. We are also traveling to the Parliamentary Assembly and your representatives are members of this delegation and there we are talking about advantages, shortcomings, everything Serbia can have through the Partnership for Peace, what it can have through NATO, etc. Therefore, it is one normal policy and I do not see how it is possible for a country secretly introduced into NATO, nor can it technically, nor can this happen politically, but we need a debate on this. What do Serbian citizens get by making such a decision? Is it a lower credit risk? Are there greater opportunities for foreign investments? Is our level of security higher, etc? Hence, our attitude is well - known. We believe that the path must continue to be the path of Euro-Atlantic integration, that our ultimate destination should be full membership in NATO, but we allow, of course, different debates, different arguments, but you have no right to forget that the decision to join the Partnership for Peace in 2006 was Serbia's greatest step towards the NATO Pact. And don't tell me that in 2006, we didn't know that Kosovo would declare independence 15 months after that. You knew that well, Mr. Palace, and those who run your party better than I did. In 2007 you calculated that political neutrality or military neutrality could bring more support to the citizens in the elections, I'm sorry, and that's where you missed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48526	The authorized representative's time is five minutes and 30 seconds. The word is Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48527	I'm sorry, I just skipped one part of your discussion, apropo ODKB organization, not wanting to give you MPs in parliament any criticism. I want to tell you that we work very closely with these countries in the defense system. You should know that we've both been earning respect in the East and West lately. We had, as I said, the Minister of Defense of Brazil for the first time in our country's history. He was almost our Chief of Staff of the Russian Federation Army. We had a secretary of defense from China. I don't know in history when he was. I've personally visited the Chief of General Staff in China twice. On this issue, the defence ministry and the Serbian Army are in front of parliament. If you expect me to help you do this in parliament, that's what I've been doing in this House for about seven years, I mean quite well. I'd really have to commit to something I've been chosen to do right now and, after all, I'm getting paid.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48528	He has a word, right on the line, Mr. Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48529	Mr. Senic, as regards the adopted KIM declaration since 2007, which defines Serbia as a military neutral state because of the role of NATO's KIM pact, I must remind you that you voted for it. You voted for it in 2007. Now, the essential question, if then the measure of Serbia's co-operation with NATO pact was the Partnership for Peace and military neutrality, how is it that today after the declaration of independence of KIM and recognition of a number of countries, you become advocates of NATO membership in the pact? It's a fundamental question and it's a fundamental difference. For us, something happened about the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, which must review a number of things and a series of relations that were before the event. For you or for someone else, it was a reason to accelerate in a series of integrations. It's a fundamental question – what happened here? The other thing, what Mr. Minister said, that's true. A number of NATO pact countries have not recognised KIM and indeed from the old state of Serbia should be welcomed and we should step up co-operation with those countries. But I'm talking about an official NATO pact document that doesn't recognize the differences that exist between individual states. He formulates his attitudes and politics here. I know that you are well addressed to this document and I believe and a number of MPs following these questions have read this document. Here, in this document, the declaration, especially in this NATO Pact strategy, defines very clearly and very specifically the position and vision of the NATO Pact when it comes to KIM. For them, it's an independent state.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48530	Two minutes. I ask the People's MPs, if there will be any further topic of the document adopted by this Assembly, to use the exact terms. It's about documents adopted by the National Assembly. So it's not a declaration and it's not about neutrality, it's about the resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the protection of sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia. That is the name of the document adopted by the National Assembly. Please pay attention to the kind of acts the National Assembly brings. MP Srdjan Milivojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48531	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Department of Defense, today we have amendments and additions to the Law on Military, Labour and Material Obligation. We are discussing an amendment that says – the President of the Republic, on a proposal from the defence minister and with the prior consent of the National Assembly's working body responsible for defence and security issues, can shorten the duration of military service for a particular party of soldiers, and not more than 15 days. Now that I hear the discussions of some of my predecessors, am I in clear doubt whether we are here discussing the accession of Serbia to the NATO Pact or what I just read to you? Apparently, some of my predecessors are trying to bring this debate down to a debate about joining the NATO Pact. In doing so, they find it difficult to look at today's repeatedly quoted Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Part Five, section of the governing department, Section 2. - President of the Republic, where they forget that the President of the Republic is a member of 112. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia represents the Republic of Serbia in the country and abroad. The president of the Republic, in accordance with the law, is commanding the army and setting up, promoting and resolving Serbian Army officers. In this context, some were bothered that the president of the Republic was in Montenegro. They forget that Montenegro became abroad just as they managed this country and when they led an aggressive campaign against Montenegro's citizens' decision in a referendum to declare their independence. Will the president of the Republic of Serbia go to Montenegro and support their European integration? Whether he will support them there in NATO processes run by the Republic of Montenegro is not an attitude to debate and is not the place to be discussed in this parliament. The President of the Republic represents Serbia abroad. Montenegro's accession to NATO pact can be discussed by the Montenegrin parliament. Here I would like to thank the President of the Assembly for clearly and precisely defining the document adopted by this Assembly through the resolution. I would also remind myself that between doctrine and practice, between what is said in the Assembly and what is said at pre-election meetings, what is done when it comes to managing this country, by some parties there is a big difference and a great understanding. As Mr Sutanovac said, the first soldiers went to Afghanistan not during the term of office of this or the previous government, but shortly before that. The first NATO planes, American planes landed at the Batajna airport, not during the government's mandate, but during the mandate of another government. Therefore, I would like to return the debate in the context of what is going on on the agenda, and when the NATO Pact and the NATO Pact theme is held, we can discuss this topic. If you want that session dedicated to this, please choose the Security and Defence Committee, so impose that topic, show the initiative. What's most important, don't put words in our mouths that we haven't spoken and put in our mouths statements we haven't given, stand behind your actions like you did in 2006, 2004, be behind your actions and now, and you who throw, you better ask yourself, you who throw, I'll remind you, Serbia may now go to NATO, but when you rule this country, NATO has entered Serbia and not Serbia into NATO.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48532	Four minutes of MP time used. The word is made by Minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48533	Since we have a agenda item, but the subject has opened up and what do we do? When the topic opens, we should close it down. So, as we heard, a resolution was adopted in parliament. What does that resolution say? The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is making a decision to declare the military neutrality of the Republic of Serbia in relation to existing military alliances, pay attention now - to the possible opening of a referendum on which a final decision on the issue would be made. I'm just stressing this "referendum call", when we call on this resolution to know that we put it in it that it's going to be "eventual", which doesn't necessarily or necessarily mean that we voted for it together. So it's extremely important that you have this in mind as parliamentarians all the time, because it's "eventually" somewhere hard to commit to being a referendum.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48534	We are still in search of details, amendment to Article 7. The word is from Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48535	Mrs. Komic, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we started the debate seven days ago, and now we are at the proposal for a law on details, the amendment submitted by Mr. Dragan Todorovic is quite justified, given our long-standing experience that the working bodies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia serve only as a front for making decisions outside the highest legislative body of the National Assembly. Mr Todorovic, also as a longtime member of the Committee on Defence and Security, and as a matter of fact, because of the whim of the DS removed from the post of president, saw that you did not really want to respect the role of parliament at all, and therefore wanted to strengthen civilian control of the military and to make it a real responsibility for the people on the Defence and Security Committee at all times. You just said, Mr. Minister, what happens if the summer break, so the assembly doesn't work, so until you meet, etc.? We Serbian radicals are nationalally responsible people, people chosen by the citizens of Serbia, you, by the way, have stolen our parliamentary mandates, which we won in the elections on the list of SRS - Dr Vojislav Seselj, and now you question the responsibility of Serbian radicals, members of the working body, or the Defence and Security Committee, that they will play their part, which the people have trusted us in the elections to find themselves in this place at some point. Really, I don't know, Mr. Sutanovac, you seem to have been with us for so many years on the Defence and Security Committee preparing for this function, although you deceived the public seven days ago when you said I never intended to be a military minister. Of course it is, as you now of course intend to be vice president of the DS again and your legitimate right to use this as a promotion, because that day "D" is approaching. This day "D", on January 1, 2011, when it is due to begin professionalising, but in full, therefore, Serbia's armies, is something that the SRS supports, unlike all of you, here comes Mr Senic, and I am very sorry about that because before that he was in another political party, but the basic knowledge of anyone who participates in the political life of Serbia must have about some political party, as well as the strongest opposition SRS. Also in the Serbian Chetnic Movement programme, and later in the SRS, the provision concerning military and professionalisation is so clear that I have nothing to say anymore, only those who are political diletaries, so now I have to explain what Serbian radicals have been up to for 20 years. However, I will come up with one topic that I want to affirm because of these people, primarily because of the military personnel in our country who will play a key role in the professionalization of the military in the future. I think you, Mr. Sutanovac, should have talked more about it, of course, I don't blame you, but in that opening statement seven days ago you mentioned some of it. But, come on, unlike these petty politics and the ignorance of some of your MPs from the DS and the coalition, let's go to the field which is certainly more attractive for the gentleman who is with you today and above all for the Serbian public. I want to talk today about the role of the Military Academy of Serbia, which recently celebrated 160 years of its existence because, you will admit, it was not easy in the 19th century, from several attempts it was done, to form the Military Academy and today, from the Duke of Radomir Traveler, Zivojin Misic, Stepanović, we reach a professional soldier in Serbia. I want to, since last Thursday didn't have enough time, so through this intensity that Mr. Todorovic and our SRS had, with this amendment I'm going to ask you a few concrete questions, because they're connected to what I assume is going to happen in the Assembly next week, which is the adoption of the 2011 budget. I also want to know if you are in a position to tell me now, after my presentation or during the session – how much will a well-trained professional soldier cost you in dinars? I see you're in favour of NATO standards in training and professionalising the military. We're specifically against it. You just said that all the countries of the world are engaged in this field today to reach those standards. That, first of all, is not true at all. The Russian Federation doesn't do that. This is not done by countries that are unclassified and who are our friends and who support us in the General Assembly, in the UN Security Council, and unlike these NATO friends of yours, they are specifically against tearing up our territory and kidnapping KIM from Serbia, and I have to remind you and prove to you that I am right, when I am talking so affirmatively about the Military Academy, that our friends from countries unclassified, and from Syria, and Algeria, from Libya, etc., many of their staffs were educated, you know, right here, and they didn't even think of sending their army now. I really don't know if it would be possible for President Bashar to make an agreement, as president of Syria, with Obama, and to send his army there for training. I don't know what you're talking about or President Medvedev or President Putin doing, so strategically defined, as you do for those countries. Why does the Serbia Military Academy have the most intense co-operation with Belgium, Hungary and Italy? Why don't we work together in a larger way, on a higher level, with the military academy of our friendly countries? You just said that, and I guess you've potentiated it because of us Serbian radicals to impress us, so we reacted, you said -- thank you for your support, we can never support anyone who's been through all NATO schools and who's obviously a NATO student. How can we support you? But you said -- I met with officials from China, Brazil, etc., so that's in your job description. That it is fortunate that every day you meet with officials from friendly countries, you take a nice list, you type on a site that the countries have not recognised the Shiptar formation of Kosovo and you go in good order, given to your people from the Ministry, inform everyone in charge and travel through these countries make strategic co-operation. These questions how much will a professional soldier cost, because you know very well, as well as our public, and especially the people who do so, because in these past seven days from that principled debate to the specifics, there have been a lot of texts and inscriptions in the media, various quasi and some people we can say are army experts, do you stay in it, Mr Sutanovac, that this professional Serb soldier will have two average salaries in Serbia? We need to tell people what's ahead of them, like everyone who's committed to being professional soldiers. In January, there were 29,929 dinars, and you said it was twice the average salary in Serbia. Can budgetaryly we endure this and how is it possible that no MP of the DS, G 17 and, as far as I know, for these ten years as you are in power, any amendment to the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to give more funds to the military? You know very well, if we're talking about our famous ancestors, and if we're talking about those who attended, and I've mentioned several Serb military leaders, the military academy, that last year's military academy was given only 80% of what they were looking for. Excuse me, but these future officers and officers, cadets and cadets, should stand and play a commanding role over professionals and soldiers, who are still more trained than they are. What does a professional soldier look like in the heads of our people? He is about 30 years old, someone who in every sense is balanced, stable, has national and any other responsibility, but in the minds of Serbian citizens, Mr Sutanovac, is not, and I guarantee you, now that you've done the research, four-fifths of Serbian citizens are explicitly against the NATO Pact, none of those who have accepted the idea of professionalising the Army, the idea that these soldiers should go to the so-called so-called. peace operations and being part of a Norwegian or some other contingent. You know very well that the greater accident of the Serb people began especially in 1999, when the NATO Pact came to Kosovo and Metohija. It is no accident that the Bondsteel military base is one of the largest here in the Balkans. For the sake of the public, I must remind you, although you do know that our colleague, Mr Filip Stojanovic, was also arrested and taken to the Bondsteel military base, which is in some sense the word "Serbs", for all the insubordinate Serbs, for all those who do not accept to serve the occupation and the Shiptar terrorists and the ballistics. It was only good luck for him to head out of there alive, like a group of Serbs he was with there. For what? Because he is on the territory of his country, where he was born, where his ancestors are, where the Stojanovics and all Serbian famous families live for centuries? Excuse me, in 1915, I will quote this to you, one of the world's famous historians Ernest Denni, who wrote and published the book "The Great Serbia" and we will gladly give each of you the opportunity to buy the magazine "Serbian Freedom Thought" in the edition of the SRS buy the book of this famous historian, he wrote about Serbian soldiers then on Serbian soldiers – Serbian successes are explained... I would ask you, Mrs. Comic, to distract this failed opponent of yours within the DS. I concentrate on something that's important and what's the subject of the agenda...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48536	People's MPs, you just violated the Rules of Procedure. Did you focus on anything else, I don't know, but you violated the Rules of Procedure in direct address to other MPs. I look forward to having a discussion on the subject of the agenda, namely the amendment, which reads that "the President of the Republic, on a proposal from the Minister of Defence and with the prior consent of the National Assembly's working body responsible for defence and security issues, can shorten the duration of military service for a particular party of soldiers for a maximum of 15 days". So, I ask you to contact with this amendment and the journals of the SRS, and the deaths of the MP, and the French historians, or stop breaking the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48537	As you noted, Mr. Minister opened a wide topic half an hour ago and this amendment is only a reason that we are talking about the glorious successes of the Serb army. That's how I wanted what was written in 1915, and these are really the most beautiful possible words about the Serbian army, somehow to encourage all future soldiers of professionals to respond and to make it their life's call. Because if such a world-famous historian said that our successes, Serbia, explain the scientific supremacy of their superior officers and the moral value of their soldiers, then the question is, Mr. Sutanovac, is military professionalization closely related to these material means? Do we now, in the context of your pledge to have NATO standards, which are unacceptable to Serbia and the Serbian people, need to slave to it, to allocate resources and to educate future professionals? Since colleagues here have mentioned how our Russian brothers say this – Organisation of a collective safety agreement, it is the correct name in Russian, Mr Senić, so that you do not have any prejudice about it, and soon you will have the opportunity to get out of the mouse hole because a letter has arrived and a letter to access the status of observers of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so to see how you will plead and how you will react to it, please tell me if you know that this organization, unlike the aggressive Western military alliance, has no affinity and pretention towards other countries, is already an integrated military organisation that has a role of regional and any other co-operation and assistance? She co-operates with the Shanghai Organization, and you know very well, as well as Mr Sutanovac, that exactly they offered us, it was later said by the President of the Foreign Political Committee of the Russian State Dume, Mr Konstantin Kosačev, before the vote of that resolution, which was amended by Boris Tadic, through this organisation and through the Shanghai initiative, which you ignored and decided to serve the EU and NATO pact. We see Serbia as a Serbia of professional soldiers. But I'll end it, since I started it, by affirming the Military Academy. General Jovan Miskovic, formerly head of the Military Academy and president of the Serbian Royal Academy, said, "The officer who exits school, and the military science is not being monitored and constantly not perfected, becomes a charlatan or tied bag." I don't want to impute any of this to you, Mr. Sutanovac, although I can find you in this sentence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48538	13 minutes and 45 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word is made by Minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48539	There have been more questions, however, I would return to this amendment that needs to protect the Army of Serbia from the President of the Republic by having more confidence in the MPs of the SRS, which we don't even know how many of you there are now. Every day we have a chance to see that those who have sworn in church that they will be unique pass a little there, so here, come here. And how do you think we trust that now? By the time you get together, get together and see how many of you there are, that's a really objective problem. I'm glad you read a little bit about the military academy. You should tell the citizens of Serbia that the military academy has just formed a Czech officer, Mr. Francis Zah. So our tradition at that time, as we said last time, even the minister of defence of the Republic of Serbia was French, not Serbian radical, we used all the knowledge we could from abroad, and today we use them. You said one great lie, and that's just a matter of ignorance, I don't believe it's said for hate, it's simply incorrect that the Russian Federation's army isn't codified according to NATO's standard. If you read something in the world's military papers a little bit, you'll see that's not how it works. Everyone wants to be compatible and everyone wants to codify and that's something that's totally acceptable. What is also important to say, and I see that you are calling for that time, at the time of the Titos of Yugoslavia and Tito's military academy, it is true that at that time a large number of non-classified countries were educated in our country, as it is true that during the time that you were in power, in the 1990s, no one from those countries was educated in our country, as it is true that they are now re-schooling in our country, which is led by the very democratic government and in which they trust. Today, at our Military Academy, we have about 20 interns who finish their postgraduate studies in a day. Two and a half years in Serbia, they learned our language, and when they return to their country, they will be ambassadors to both our armies and our countries. We expect a larger group of candidates for flight cadets on helicopters from Libya. We also expect our VMA to have foreign cadets and officers. This tradition, which you have erased in your time, which allows us to cultivate these relations with these countries, has been coming back to the big door since 2008. You have had the opportunity, I believe, to see and how we treat our military academy, with a phenomenal theatre performance directed by Aleksandar Mandić Manda, who was in our Yugoslav Drama Theatre, where you had the opportunity to see various military academys in all 160 years of existence. What is also true, yes, and if we want to co-operate with parliament, or with ODKB, we will have to do it through NATO, because all the countries around us are in NATO, so wherever you go, somehow you have to go right through NATO. [[National MP Natasa Jovanovic seeks replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48540	You have no right to a replica. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic wants a word. You signed up to use MPs' time? The People's Messenger Mirko Chikiriz has already been reported, so the People's Messenger Zoran Krasic, then you. MP Mirko Chikiriz has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48541	I propose, of course, that this amendment by Mr. Dragan Todorovic be rejected, because it is really pointless, if under the Constitution is the President of the Republic, and under the law commands the military, sets up, improves and relieves the officers of the Serbian Army, someone who can do more, can do less. If the President of the Republic, and regardless of which political party, commands the military, then it is pointless for the President of the Republic to ask some body of the National Assembly and has previously obtained the opinion of the minister whether to shorten the military term of 15 days. Of course, every decision of this kind will provide all the necessary opinions and analyses, but this is a procedure that is absolutely pointless. Of course, this time has also been used for some kind of political debates that are not just political debates, I think these are good discussions concerning the country's security, the future of this country. The basis of the policy represented by the ruling majority and parties since 2000 is that all the enmity we have tried to turn into friendships and to support the friendships we have in the world. First of all, I thought of the Russian Federation, and all the countries with which we were in conflict, which are influential and greatly affecting the position of the Republic of Serbia, its security, etc., I think it is the basis of every policy that some of the enmities that once existed become friendships. The minister mentioned that a strategic proposal for the defence of the Republic of Serbia was adopted during the government of Mr Vojislav Kostunica, since 7 June 2006. This is interesting for you, Mr. Palalyco, because of another question you've brought yourself. This strategic defence review was adopted at the defence minister's college. On page 2, it is said -- in the process of strengthening security and defence architecture, the United Nations, NATO, the European Union and the OSCE play a special role. Their role has become increasingly important in preventing and overcoming crises, establishing post-conflict and democratic consolidation of unstable states and regions. Here is the question of who is protecting Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija today, etc. We would like them not to be protected by anyone, if there were no declaration of independence, if Serbia had not lost sovereignty downstairs, but unfortunately, to a large extent, it is reality, today the security of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, among other things, protects and members of the NATO Alliance. Secondly, it was tried here for public reasons, but I think we should all take care of the spoken word publicly, to create some gap between the NATO Pact and the Russian Federation, and we ourselves are aware that a few days ago, Russian President Medvedev was at the NATO Pact Summit in Lisbon. He certainly didn't go to the summit to argue with the NATO Pact, but to establish some kind of co-operation, because the world is thinking differently after World War II, especially big ones, and working together on world security and peace. It's something that's common knowledge. Secondly, the strategy says the key moment for improving the state of security will represent the inclusion of the Republic of Serbia in NATO's Partnership for Peace programme and the establishment of other forms of co-operation with NATO. This will allow for the improvement of the overall stability of the Republic of Serbia. We had a policy until 2000 that had disastrous results on the security of the country. We had a policy that sought both great Serbia and the protection of all Serbs outside Serbia's borders. Unfortunately, the consequences of this policy have been truly catastrophic, and where Serbia's national interests are allegedly defended, unfortunately, Serbs either do not have or have much smaller interests. Obviously, we needed a new policy. However, with the adoption of a new policy, we do not understand why, above all, the DSS became more radical in defence of politics by 2000 than the actors themselves. For example, the SPS has accepted new values, accepted new times and seems to me to have significantly changed the political course. Therefore, the question to Mr Palalic is whether he, as a public lawyer, can state whether military neutrality is self-proclaimed enough by himself or whether it is necessary for the sea to recognise the international agreements? We have said in this Parliament several times that it is a dead letter on paper, that it is a deception of the public, that it is a collection of cheap political points, that nothing can bring Serbia this kind of deception and that military neutrality, as Austria had after World War II, you can only have in international contexts if it is confirmed by relevant international contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48542	Five minutes and 27 seconds of MP time were used. National MP Zoran Krasic has been reported, but no longer You have no right to a replica. [[The People's MP Jovan Palalic answered the line.]] I listened very carefully to the questions asked by MP Mirko Chikiriz, and the questions he asked you do not represent topics of order and importance for this debate, so you do not have the right to reply. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48543	If I may, Mrs. Comic, as an authorised representative? Namely, the authorised representative was Dragan Todorovic, he is not here at the moment, and according to the Rules of Procedure, since I am the deputy president of the parliamentary group, I would speak within the time of the authorised representative. Thank you. So there are really a number of topics open here. What really falls into the eyes of every impartial observer of political events on Serbia's political scene is that, according to the Serbian government, according to statements by its officials and those who support it, there is no unity over some key issues relevant to the security and defence of the Republic of Serbia. In one part of the Serbian government and in one part of the ruling coalition, it is said that they are not for NATO and that they support Serbia's military neutrality. On the other hand, you have the little more militant wing of the ruling coalition that openly says that NATO is and that if Serbia does not enter NATO, then we will suffer enormous damage, political, economic, military, security, etc. Of course, that is not the only question that the Serbian government is unequal about. We have often had the opportunity to hear that one minister, specifically Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, has been sharply criticising his other counterpart in the government, particularly Finance Minister Diana Dragutinovic. The ruling coalition is ununited and in terms of mass graves in Serbia that were created in 1944 and later, because one part of the Serbian government is asking to mark the sides of the communist government, and they are sitting in the same government where ideologically continue those who caused these mass graves. So it is obvious that there is a significant disunity in the Serbian government. It is obvious that some representatives of the Serbian government and individual ministers are trying to soften citizens' awareness of what NATO did to Serbia-Montenegro in 1999, but what it did to the Republika Srpska Krajina and Republika Srpska in 1994 and 1995, when it bombed Serb military positions and thus directly assisted the Croatian army, i.e. the Croatian and Muslim armies in Bosnia and Herzegovina. What's a fact, it's that NATO's pact since 1991 definitely ceases to be just a military organisation and becomes a political actor in Europe. This happened in November 1991 at the NATO Summit in Rome, when in a resolution of the summit, among other things, it said that NATO should be a political change agent in Europe in terms of imposing on Eastern European countries a new political and economic system. After that, from 1991 to today, it is clear that the NATO Pact has not only a military but also an increasingly pronounced political role. Serbia's citizens' awareness, when it comes to NATO, is trying to soften up and that Russia and NATO are reportedly not opposed to the pact, that these are, more or less, partners among which there are no issues. Then some Serbian government ministers wonder why someone notes that there is a gap between the Russian Federation's security interests and NATO's security interests, above all the United States, which are a key factor in this military organisation. All those who try to soften the brain of Serbian citizens in this way, I simply want to remind myself of a statement made two days ago by Dimitri Rogozin, a permanent representative of the Russian Federation in NATO... (President: National MP, please keep the context of your discussion on the subject of the agenda. We have a common obligation to apply and respect Article 106(1) on the agenda. Thank you. ) Mrs. Comic, precisely for the sake of argumenting the amendments submitted by Mr. Dragan Todorovic, I want the MPs and the honourable Mr. Minister to know some of the facts that are important to the MPs when they vote on the amendment submitted by Dragan Todorovic on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. So two days ago, Mr. Rogozin compared the setting of NATO's anti-racet shield pact in Eastern European countries to what the Third Reich did to Poland and said that the NATO pact against the Russian Federation was defended by an anti-racet shield in the same way that the Third Reich defended Poland. A few months ago, the same Mr. Rogozin offered a million dollar reward to whoever convinced him that the NATO Pact was not an aggressor organization... (President: National MP, please do not bring Mr. Rogozin into contact with the amendment. ) Also, I would like to correct the esteemed Mr Sutanovac, no Frenchman was the defence minister of the Republic of Serbia, as the Republic of Serbia became the Republic only in 1945. I have not heard of any Frenchmen who were defence ministers in the SFRJ, SRJ, SRS or the Republic of Serbia, so if Mr Sutanovac could say which French was the minister of defence of the Republic of Serbia since 1945, I would be grateful to him. As for the amendment itself, the SRS believes that in its capacity to strengthen civil control, the Serbian Army should also give an adequate role to the National Assembly's resolution committee, the National Assembly's working body, which is the Defence and Security Committee, to give the previous consent to shorten military service for a maximum of 15 days for a particular party of soldiers. If you analyze our amendment, then you'll see that he actually wants to achieve two goals. On the one hand, to affirm the role of the National Assembly and its resolute working body in civilian control of the military. This seems to be by, in the SRS, the Committee on Defence and Security, as a resolute working body, to give prior consent to the decision of the President of the Republic to shorten military service for a particular party of soldiers. On the other hand, if you take the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on military, labour and material obligations, then you will see that Article 7 of the President of the Republic gives the right to shorten military service, not for a particular party of soldiers, as proposed by the SRS, but generally. This, in practice, gives him the right to suspend by its decision the provisions of the laws on the length of the military term. Our amendment wants to achieve exactly the opposite, that the President of the Republic is given the right to shorten military service, but not for all future cases, but only for a particular party of soldiers, and not for 15 days at the most. It is optimal, given the length of the military term in Serbia and, of course, to affirm the role of the National Assembly. Some of the Messengers of the people, it really surprised me, said quite funny about what the People's Assembly has to ask about the reduction in military service. There is. You know, the defence system of the Republic of Serbia is a unique system and it is true that the president of the Republic of Serbia is in command of the military, but you cannot ignore the other elements of the defence system. It is true that there is a certain role of the National Assembly and its Defence and Security Committee in this unique defence system. The very name of the committee speaks of the National Assembly as well as how important it is to command the military, although this, when it comes to shortening military service, is not military command in the right sense of the word. It is the doing of certain military affairs, not exactly commanding in the full sense of that word, but no doubt that the National Assembly, since it represents one of the factors in the defence system of the Republic of Serbia, should play its part in reducing military service, but not in a universal way and not in all future cases, but only when it comes to a certain party of soldiers. I would like to remind you that, following a decision proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, military service is not abolished, but military service is lifted. I am confident, as other SRS MPs are confident, that in the Republic of Serbia there will be young people, both men and women, who will want to serve the military term. To them, the president of the Republic of Serbia can shorten military service for the one party of soldiers who went to barracks on that date and on that date, but cannot be self-initiated and cannot do so on their own. It must be consulted by the defence minister, i.e. the defence minister, who should propose a reduction in military service for a particular party of soldiers, and before the president of the Republic makes a decision to shorten military service, he must receive prior consent from the National Assembly. This, if you accept the SRS amendment, when it comes to the defence system, you have included all three factors in the country's defence system, when it comes to the civil sector: the President of the Republic, who is the first head of the executive government; you have included the defence minister, who is the representative of that second head of the executive government, because in the Republic of Serbia, the executive authority is bicephal, divided into two parts, and you have included that third civilian defence factor of the country, which is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is completely incomprehensible for the SRS parliamentary group that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and MPs of the ruling coalition, who insist on the concept of civilian control of the military, flee from a certain role of the National Assembly and its committee, when it comes to this segment of defence and this segment of the military, called the shortening of military service. You know, shorting out military service isn't such a harmless thing. You are going from the fact that the Republic of Serbia is always in a regular state and that there is never any danger of the country's defence and security. I wish that was always the case, but unfortunately, the question is, will it be so? The question now arises why do the National Assembly fully tie their hands when it comes to the possibility of her being asked about military service? Currently, the president of the republic is from a party that represents the headquarters of the ruling coalition and no doubt that it plays the most important role in the ruling coalition, not only in its own party, but maybe one day Serbia will come into a situation for the president to be of one political option and for the government of Serbia and for the majority in the National Assembly to make up some other political options. Why should only the President of the Republic ask himself this question? Why should he alone have some jurisdiction when it comes to shorting out military service? Why don't we run away from the National Assembly, why don't we give her the right to give or not give a prior consent to shorten military service? The SRS amendment only wants to achieve two goals. On the one hand, we want to affirm the role of the National Assembly in the concept of defence of the Republic of Serbia, on the one hand, and on the other hand, we do not want to allow the President of the Republic to have the general right to shorten the service of the military term in all future cases, but to limit it only for a particular party of soldiers and that the deadline for which it can shorten the service of the military period may be up to 15 days. The amendment is perfectly clear. The legislature said the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The amendment affirms the role of the National Assembly in the defence system of the Republic of Serbia, and I believe there is no valid reason not to support the amendment as well. The SRS also stressed in principle that we are not in principle against military professionalisation. The professional army is undoubtedly more quality and efficient than the army based on the recruiting obligation, but we are not for professionalising an army that implies that the defence power of the Republic of Serbia is weakened and we are not convinced that the unfulfilled 11,000 professional soldiers can be enough to defend the Republic of Serbia in a situation where you have several crisis hotspots on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, with these crisis hotspots further increasing the impact from certain centres of power outside the Republic of Serbia. KIM, Raška district, southern Serbia, perhaps, don't give God and some other part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, talk about the security of the Republic of Serbia at a rather delicate stage and we're not sure that these unfulfilled 11,000 professional soldiers are enough. On the side of the big question – what does the idea of a professional soldier mean in the Republic of Serbia? Currently in the Republic of Serbia, a professional soldier is a man who has served a military deadline, who probably has no other way to resolve his existential issue and who appears in the Serbian Army to be a professional. He is a professional only by living on a military call, receiving salary as a professional soldier, but a heart-to-heart, whether he has some special military skills in relation to other citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not right now, perhaps one day, if some special courses, schools, training systems are introduced, etc. Since 1 January 2011, the professional army in the Republic of Serbia will make the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have served a military deadline, but whose level of military knowledge is lower, more average. The professional military, yes, but we believe that the government in the Republic of Serbia has not done enough since 2000 to make this professional army in a professional, economic, technological sense a respectable factor in the defence of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48544	The word is made by Minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48545	That's not true. To be very clear, there is, as you know, a training command, there is a training management, there are people who are extremely professional, educated, both in the country and abroad and every day we integrate our knowledge and strengthen training. A professional member of the Serbian Army has improved training compared to a regular recruit and has continued training, which recruits did not have due to short military service. That story doesn't stand. I understand misunderstanding, I understand concern, but in order to relax the citizens of Serbia, they should also know that the difference between 11,000 professionals, or recruits, is about four to one in favour of professionals. We didn't reduce the number of soldiers. We have an identical, even slightly larger number of soldiers than in 2007, so when we talk about the operational possibilities of the Serbian Army, we need to know that today the Serbian Army is much more operational, more operationally capable than the army that was in 2007. I apologize if I said the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Serbia was French. It's an extremely big mistake. It is the Kingdom of Serbia from 1861 to 1865. It's about France's Ipolite Monden, who was in the government of Ilia Garashanina, a man who was practically the first defence minister in our country, who brought standards right from the west, which were later implemented both in our country and in our army.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48546	A minute and 35 seconds have been used time at the disposal of an authorised representative. The Messenger of the people Srdjan Milivojević has a word, so the Messenger of the people, Jovan Palalić, and the Messenger of the people, Zoran Krasic. No, MP John Palalic. Time is available for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48547	I would refer to the presentations that were heard here, when it comes to the DSS position in a series of issues concerning documents and policies that were led in relation to the Partnership for Peace and everything that happened until 2008 and afterwards.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48548	The People's MP, Article 106 of Section One, obliges me and you to apply him, and you to respect him. The position of the political party cannot be related to this amendment, however you try, in whatever context your discussion to argue, so I ask you about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48549	I was talking about this amendment, but I understood you gave me a replica. I was talking about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48550	No, MP, I said you have a word and you have 10 minutes. That's how long it's been for your MP group. Thank you. National MP Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48551	Mrs. Comic, how much time do we have?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48552	Forty-seven minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48553	We'll fit in. At first, Mr. Sutanovac, says one saying... Are you going to the bathroom? You can stay there, you don't have any problems, I'll put everything in the toilet anyway. Mr. Markovic ended up in the bathroom this morning, so that's where you belong. Mrs. Comić...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48554	People's MP...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48555	Did you hear what he said to me?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48556	I'm listening to what you're saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48557	Did you hear what he said? He prefers the toilet than the army.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48558	People's MP, please, for your sake, not so much for my sake, that I must apply the Rules of Procedure, so I must, but for your sake, ask you to refer your address to other participants in the session and to all the MPs, as well as to the Minister, to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm really asking you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48559	And I ask you, Mrs. Comic, to protect me some time, because you can see for yourself that it has become a simple thought-out scenario, that when I get the word of ministers leaving, but good. The public is the Supreme Judge. Let him appreciate it. I would ask you to continue to interpret everything I say as something I quote, and it concerns something that was either in this building or in that building or in the official documents that we received as MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48560	People's MP, in the follow-up to everything you say, everything will have to be about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48561	You just need a little patience, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48562	I have patience, which is why I'm saying that I'm asking you to bring everything into contact with the agenda theme, not to announce it, the discussion, which will not have anything to do with the agenda, so I'm responding.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48563	Mrs. Comic, I'm telling you everything about the agenda. I say Article 7. The bill – President of the Republic, on a proposal from the Minister of Defence, can shorten the duration of military service. Now let me remind you of an old Serbian saying -- which, the army on shortfall, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia about honesty. What's the President of the Republic? The state body, I hope you agree with that and that function is performed by an individual, in these large matters, he should have a proposal from a qualified, professional authority when he makes a decision. And that's where we probably agree. Is the Department of Defense or the Minister of Defense a qualified organ? According to the Constitution and the law, it would have to be. That's where you agree. Well, according to the former Pride, it's not, but you handle it on December 18th, and I don't want to get involved and end it. Now, if we're talking military cuts, Mr. Radulovic, when you and I, and also Jovicic, were probably serving the army, it was mandatory, so we who finished colleges served for a year, the others served a little longer, and it was always waiting for the president's apparition, the commander's command, not to go into detail, you know what it was about, to shorten the army in a month, in two months, but it was on conditions when it was mandatory to serve the military deadline. After these amendments and the addition of the law, and especially after this, and later, Mrs. Komic, to quote what's written here, the decision on the obligation to serve the military term, then the issue of a reduction in two days, in 15 days, in a month, is not a matter of that importance as it used to be. You agree with me? Of course you do. Then there's really a commitment and a need to regulate how short the government's deadline can be. If someone has left voluntarily, he knows at the beginning how long it takes him to serve the military deadline – six months, nine months, it doesn't matter, but he's prepared for it, and he's voluntarily gone to spend that time to be trained for future defence, current defence, etc. If someone has to decide to cut the liability with that volunteer, then excuse me, please, they have to ask the competent authorities, who are doing the proper assessment. In compulsory military service, this country was quite normal because it took care of both demographics and generations and educational, educational and all other functions that were performed within the framework of an organized armed force which is an integral part of the definition of a state called the Republic of Serbia. It is an introduction that people would simply understand even those who did not serve the military deadline, to understand the seriousness of the state as an institution. Now, I quote, Mrs. Comic, don't insult me, it is said -- according to a strategic review of the defence of the Republic of Serbia, the Serbian Army should have 10,918 professional soldiers, and by the end of 2010, that is another 20 days of Chikiriz, it is expected to be filled with more than 90% of the required formation posts for professional members of the Serbian Army. Now you're gonna see why this is contrary to a member of the law, laugh at you. In the organisational formation of the Serbian Army, the formation position of soldiers at the service of the military deadline is replaced by the formational posts of professional soldiers. So there's no military service. Do you understand now? After completing the formational posts of professional soldiers in units and institutions of the Serbian Army and the Ministry of Defence, retaining the military service obligation would require higher professional and operational costs for the military needs budget. I'll quote after something about the budget, something that was 2, 3 and 17 March 2004, Mrs. Komic, it's the National Assembly's documentation, it's not forbidden to read, which is not in line with the real needs of the Serbian Army. Mrs. Komic, listen to this, since you are permanently defined for democracy, you will never accept this, I am absolutely confident: "In the event of an increased need to complete Serbia's Army in an emergency or in a wartime state, it can be ensured by making a decision by the President of the Republic on the reintroduction of military service if the interests warrant, in accordance with the article's provision." Now that's my luck, "135th position 7. The law on military, labour and material obligations." Why did I say my luck? Because I didn't call on the Constitution. If I had called on the Constitution, you'd have to punish me, given that the election is in the DS. It is said - the proposed solution provides a rationalisation of defence costs that focus on development in line with the real possibilities of the Republic of Serbia, and I will quote what the real possibilities of the Republic of Serbia are, i.e. the real risks and threats to the security of the Republic of Serbia. This is how I made the connection between Article 7. The bill of law, I must give you, decisions to suspend the obligation of military service and many things directly affecting Article 7 of the bill and amendment by Mr Todorovic, which prescribes a different procedure for the President of the Republic, under the influence of its advisers who have various interests, if the President of the Republic puts his finger on the head, then he would say, is shortened in volunteers the obligation to serve the military term by five and a half months, and the military obligation with volunteers, for example, is six months. Why am I saying that? Because in the opening statement a few days ago on this proposal of the law, Mr Sutanovac was very correct, there is no regret, he said in response to some MPs – there is no problem, whoever wants to volunteer for military service will report, he will personally influence those people to receive and allow them to serve the military deadline. If the military deadline is to be six months, and the President of the Republic says - I'm cutting five and a half months short, it's a kind of abuse, a kind of harassment of the National Assembly and this high home where decisions were made so significant, Mrs. Comic. I said just now, on March 2, 3, 17, 2004, and I'd like to ask you all to take it as a great commendation to the DS. I just want to show how consistent you are in a political attitude that is in some way defined by Article 7. The bill, and that member Mr. Todorovic wants to change. I fully understand why you're angry, what he wants to change, and now I'm going to show you some examples of how it happens. Mrs. Komic, in the archives of the National Assembly, you can find that the SRJ, why I say SRJ, Mr. Radulovic knows that until a few years ago, the military was in charge of the SRJ, and then the SCG until Bosko Ristic broke it down, only when Montenegro went away the army had joined the Republic of Serbia and then there was a big dispute as the federal budget of the SRJ should appear. It's a link, Mikovic, the continuity of the operation of DS. So, it was a law on funding the material security programme for the transformation of the Yugoslav Army between 1993 and 1995. Just to remind you, because Radulovic also whispered last time to the Minister Sutanovac that such a law was, and was, there was no problem. You see how I praise you. Then I came up with this stenogram and here I watch what Dr. Ivan Vujacic said. He was sitting right here, right under Mikovic. He was an MP for the DS. He said a lot about the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia's 1994 budget, part concerning the military. Only they brought amendments, Dragoljub Micunovic, Miroljub Labus and Ivan Vujačić. Ivan Vujačić said a nice man. I praise him. He says so - we will vote for this budget as the Democratic Party. I don't mind. He says this way -- we've given some of the amendments that we think are contributing to this program. It's that military transformation program. That doesn't mean we're voting for the government. I agree. They were not for that government because then there was Perisic, and Grubač, etc. That's another thing. We're voting for the budget because it's largely military budget. They're voting for the military budget. The Federal Republic of Yugoslavia 75% of the 1994 budget was the military budget. The Democratic Party voted in favour of the military budget. That's what I wanted to hear. To support. We'd like there to be a parliamentary commission that could look a little bit more, so it's the Security Committee. It is in Mr. Todorovic's amendment. Be consistent. That's his, that's what Uncle said. The Budget Committee controls not only the spending of these funds but also what the President of the Republic as an incoherent body could decide. Let's move on, because I know it's a big crowd who will be the Democratic Party's chief ideologist, what Mr. Miroljub Labus said. I'm sorry, Susan, he was a member of the Democratic Party at the time in 1994. He says – The Democratic Party and the Democratic Party's parliamentary club believe that under the conditions of sanctions we can have a solid and healthy dinar. Imagine what a banger man is. Furthermore, it is certain that under the conditions of sanctions we are poor, but does not mean that we have to have inflation. I'll tell you why I said that next time. It goes on - we can't spend more than we have. Now we spend more than we have. We even spend what we don't have. We've become a world miracle.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48564	We're currently breaking the Rules of Procedure, People's Parliament, so I understand...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48565	I'm talking about an amendment to article 7, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48566	I understand, but I ask you to bring the former MPs of the former Federal Assembly, Ivan Vujačić and Miroljub Labus, and their political views into contact with the amendment submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48567	I'm getting in a relationship right now, but the problem is that you don't want to hear the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48568	People's MP, I just want to hear the connection.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48569	The consistency of DS that has its roots and here is the final phase.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48570	National MP, the amendment has been submitted by a member of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48571	Of course. He submitted an amendment calling for DS positions on parliamentary control, on the need for a competent authority to propose a reduction of the military deadline to the President of the Republic. If you can't find a connection, I'm sorry, it's out of my reach. There's nothing I can do for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48572	I can see that.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48573	I can see I can't help you. I can read you the consistency of DS. You punish me when I read the Constitution, punish me when I read the law. Now you're punishing me when I read DS attitudes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48574	People's MP, I punish you only when you leave me no alternative and only for violations of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The most unpleasant thing for me is that I am left with absolutely no other option than to make notices in Parliament, the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48575	Mrs. Komic, I am talking about the consistency of the DS policy on the reduction of the military deadline.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48576	Miroljub Labus and Ivan Vujačić served the army no one knows when and can be brought into contact with...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48577	I'm not talking about whether they were serving the army, but what they were saying as DS officials.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48578	People's MP, the amendment is the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48579	I'm saying the SRS has accepted your democratic standards.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48580	People's MP, everyone has accepted our democratic standards. Please, about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48581	Mrs. Comic, can't you see you're ruining this discussion at a time when the highest ratings are. It's snowing. Everyone's watching this transmission. Everyone is interested in this, interested in whether Serbia exists or not. If you do not allow me to praise former DS members, I must commend existing members. Mr. Sutanovac, thanks to Gordani Komic, I must praise you. What are you laughing at?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48582	I'm asking the Minister without direct communication.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48583	Laugh at your father-in-law's songs, but I must praise you. Mr. Sutanovac, you've mastered some schools well, and I must commend you. You know there is a division of Euro-Atlanticists and Euro-Asists in this geo-strategic region. You belong to the Euro-Assists. You work for a group called GRU. She came anonymously and I recognize in your proposals and your political views that you represent such an attitude. That's commendable. Mr. Sutanovac, that's extremely commendable. Why is it commendable?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48584	People's MP, I now warn you to speak on the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48585	I'm talking about article 7, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48586	You're not talking. Article 7 refers to the way the law regulates the decision-making process to reduce the military deadline.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48587	We suggest that 15 days be something that the president can cut short, because if he cut short in a month, it would be dangerous. If it's important to tell you. You're not letting me tell you why it's only important for 15 days, not 30, you're just nervous. I don't know what you're nervous about. At first I told you to quote your file. You won't let me praise Mr. Shutanovec. He works for another interested group that...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48588	Your praises to Minister Dragan Sutanovac cannot be about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48589	I'm not talking about him as Dragan Sutanovac. I'm talking about him as a representative of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48590	That can't be the subject of the agenda either. That can be done on parliamentary matters.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48591	Can't I commend what he wrote in the bill?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48592	People's MP, to what he wrote in the bill, you have submitted an amendment that changes it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48593	That's what I'm telling you. I'm saying it, Mrs. Comic, except you don't want to understand it. Put yourself in a position that today is December 19th, not December 9th, but December 19th, and that all of this is over.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48594	People's MP, please, no argument as to what would happen if we were or whether we were or not. Amendment, bill, argument.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48595	Let me convince you. Although I'm very uncomfortable with a single military camera leaving. There were two of them. Why is it important that the President of the Republic can decide to cut to 15 days? Why is it a major disaster for RS for over 15 days? Because there's another unconstitutional provision. I just named you a member of the law on military and other obligations. The President of the Republic cannot decide on his own to establish a military obligation. He can't. It's regulated by law, and by law, that authority cannot be passed on to anyone. It can't even be transferred to the government. Neither can the President of the Republic. Now, if I told you the reasons why you couldn't, you'd have killed 16 warnings, but I won't give you that satisfaction. It's dangerous when one individual, regardless of the individual's image, and the individual state authority is able to pass on such powers, because then we come into this situation that we discussed in the discussion in principle. So, interest, will, patriotism, love of country exists in the people. I would recommend that you listen to a show that was on the Radio Belgrade on Sunday, the first program with the dispatch of a soldier from a village of the Vladimirs municipality, where ordinary people, peasants gave such high-minded thought that it wasn't just a question of whether someone would go to learn how to handle a weapon, but rather a question of its elemental maturity as a man. The whole village came and they don't realize this at all, and the villagers immediately came to their senses. The alternative option for sending her to the army is to celebrate her adulthood. It's not because they pathologically want to hang out or like accordionists, singers and singers, but because they take seriously what the state is and see that all attributes of statehood are lost in the Republic of Serbia and that this cannot be covered by other things. Of course, professionalization is a completely different process. We don't want to question this process, but we want to question whether this is where it cultivates, cultivates, encourages this kind of patriotism? No, I don't. I'm just putting it in context. A man volunteered to serve a military term. He's already made his own decision on how long it takes to live in accordance with the law. Why would they allow someone, if we don't cut them off for a while to reduce the military service obligation by 99% of that time prescribed? That's what this is about. I'm telling you right now, although Mrs. Comic wouldn't let me. I also wanted to give you numerical information on something that the DS used to represent. I can also tell you that there wasn't so much bad data that they brought out. The most extreme was Dragoljub Micunovic, who said not to make thousands of apartments for military faces but a hundred. But that's what you read, that's your word, that's not mine. This can't be avoided with a smile. This can't be avoided by two defense department cameras who need to record the minister epochally finishing some work here. He can't. The state is a serious matter. The army, it's a serious thing. Armed forces, that's a serious thing. The obligation of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia to its country is an extremely serious matter and is a serious matter of the obligation of the Republic of Serbia to its citizens. You laugh. You laugh all the time, and Serbia falls apart. That's our problem. That's our problem. And you don't want that problem, you plant everything and everything. You plant commercials, you plant some people who didn't even serve the army, you plant some people who'd joke around here to disabling their senses with citizens. Feel in those people who want Serbia to be their country. That's our problem. And I'm glad that professionals listen and watch this transmission and find out things infallibly. I'm not going to read you about these warrants. I'm not going to read to you about these friends of yours. I'm not going to read you what you know well. Be reasonable. Finally, turn towards the Republic of Serbia, towards the state of Serbia, towards the citizens of Serbia. And now you can do whatever you want. I thank Mrs Comic, for having the patience to listen to me and welcome all those who have had the opportunity to hear and see what challenges the Republic of Serbia faces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48596	Twenty-five minutes have been used by the MPs' group. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48597	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, but above all, the respected citizens of Serbia, there are few of us in this hall that we remember and a little more than 1994, and we know that some other political parties advocated the professionalisation of the military and how they had a relationship with the Serbian Army, and how they had any relationship with the defence of this country. I'll be free to quote some sentences that also concern relations with the military, according to the professionalization of the military. I will remind you of some facts from Serbia's history, when it comes to the Serbian Army and the country's defence. For starters, not so long ago, 20 years ago, and perhaps a little more, one political party staged a protest outside the US Embassy and collected volunteers for war, for a fair war in Iraq, that political party and today is called the SRS. This same party, which is called the SRS, has its leader who waved with the US flag in front of the US Embassy and supported (President: National MP, please bring your presentations to the agenda topic)... I'm just talking about a relationship with the military, I'm sorry. He urged the JNA military then to join volunteers and fair American efforts to deal with Saddam Hussein's regime in Iraq. The same political party had a leader who said -- if I were a military commander, I would first order the army to withdraw troops and weapons from the territory of today's Slovenia. Then he says – and enabled Slovenia to secede. Then I would order the amputation of Croatia and the withdrawal of the army and the arms on the line Karlovac, Virovitica etc. Before you see the thorn in our eyes, look at the beech forest with your own eyes and then wonder where you were and what you were doing. The memory of the country's citizens has reached a little further since 1994 and a little further since 1991. Last time I recommended that you listen to "Mozaik of Time", the show on Radio Belgrade is made of words and works of many people. Unfortunately, some people's lives are remembered. Because of these misdeeds, some people are responding day and day. Speaking of Serbia's army, I ask you to speak respectfully of the Serbian army, to speak of the Serbian Army as an institution that enjoys, along with the SPC, the highest trust of citizens of this country. No one in this country came up with the idea of destroying Serbia's army, or bringing it into a position in 1995, 1996. 1998, 1999. We are here to build a modern army of Serbia to meet the challenges of the 21st century. When we do this job, we'll never forget how some others did when they were in opposition had a relationship with that army. We will never forget that this army has been a polygon for the political action of various unexplained ambitions. Today, the army is free of all politics. Today, the army is under parliamentary and civilian control. Today, the army is an institution that enjoys the highest trust of the citizens of this country. That job wasn't done overnight. That's what we're doing right now. With this law we are building an institution that will enjoy the trust of all citizens of this country. Serbia's mothers will never send their children to war again, but will eventually send troops to those who wish to join the army. They will know that in that army their children are safe, that they are safe and that their children from that army will return as living, healthy, and normal people. That's the job this party's doing. It's a job that DS and this government do, as well as the minister do. Those who intend to make an army of the army that will be rebuked with such sentences - every Serb is born a soldier when he is born. That's what Europe knows. Many have paid bitter experiences here in the Balkans for underestimating the Serbian people. I don't think anyone will find themselves so quick to force violently on us some solutions that are not in line with our national interests. If one bomb falls on any Serbian city, Rome, Berlin, Vienna will burn. Those are your SRS leader's words, not mine. (President: People's Parliament, please, on the subject of the agenda. ) So, not to remind you of what you said and did, the citizens of Serbia know very well, they know the price we paid for your work. Serbia has no opportunity to pay that price twice, so it has been defined for the DS and this vision of the modern European army that will co-operate as Europe's defence misery, not some force that will confront the whole world for your missing political goals.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48598	Five minutes have been used by the MP's group. Does anyone else come forward for a word in search of the particulars of the amendment to Article 7? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djelic, Aleksandra Jankovic and Aleksandra Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since this was the last amendment in the search for details, does the minister want a word? Minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48599	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, I would like to thank all MPs who have participated in a constructive discussion in parliament and wanted to assist in the Serbian Army's reform process. I am taking the opportunity to offer myself and our General Staff to visit parliament together and to present one presentation of what is being done in the Serbian Army and the reforms that are being implemented, with all results, both in the country and abroad. I am giving myself the freedom to invite you to visit the army whenever you have time and to give you a presentation, to see what condition the military is in today, with a very clear statistical view of what condition the military was in a few years ago, not with the desire to criticise the past, but with the desire to show that we are changing our future and that things that were once bad today are significantly, significantly better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-09-0.u48600	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. This concludes our work today, and this concludes the debate on all points of the agenda of this session. According to the Rules of Procedure, which define the day for the vote, I am informing the National Assembly that on the day of the vote, therefore, of the date, you will be informed of the time-limit. Thank you all. Thank you to the Ministry's representatives.
