ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37407	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Democratic Party of Serbia has tabled an amendment to Article 8. It refers to names that cannot be protected. In the first position in point 4), in fact, these are geographical indications which cannot protect the name, you state what all these marks are and you say, among other things, in point 4): "which is identical or significantly similar to the previously registered stamp, if, in view of the reputation, familiarity and length of use of that stamp... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” What we wanted to change was this term “knownness. ” We believe that it is not in the spirit of Serbian and that it does not match the way it was used here. We think that a much better word is “recognition. ” In response to which you do not accept the amendment, you say: “In the context of the provision of Article 8(4) of the Law, the bill is about the familiarity of the stamp in terms of the familiarity of the participants in the traffic with that mark. “ See how that sounds when you use the word “recognition” – in the context of the provision of Article 8(4) of the Law, it is about the recognition of the mark in terms of familiarity. I don't think it's true what you've answered, it just doesn't fit the actual state. I think it's much simpler to use the term that we gave and that refers to this familiarity that you state. Recognition is a Serbian word, "knownness" does not exist in Serbian, is not a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37408	Thank you. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Mrs. Donka Banovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37409	Thank you, Madam President. This is one of the first amendments to a series of amendments adopted by the legislator. We'll talk about some of them, and some of us won't. Now I want to explain what the biller has adopted, and this article. In fact, Article 14 speaks of international registration of geographical indications and registration of geographical indications at European Community level. The first and second points state that the authorised user of the geographical indication can apply for international registration, in accordance with an international contract binding on the Republic of Serbia. It's a kind of requirement. The second position speaks of another type of requirement, i.e. it can apply for registration of the designation of geographical origin at European Community level. So this article mentions two requirements. In the last position, the promoter says that the government is closer to prescribing the content of the requirements (so, plural), specifying the contributions to the request and prescribing their content. We intervened here and the legislator accepted that instead of the word “Government” stands “the authority responsible for intellectual property”; therefore, to know specifically which body is required to prescribe the content and the contributions that would go along with this request, so that instead of “Government”, which is very undefined... It is that these are the Ministry and that organ part of the government, but it is very good that it stands in the law itself, because that organ will do so. And not only this, but also all other requirements or patterns will be prescribed by this body, so it is very good to stand concretely which organ, not in general – the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37410	This has been since the time of your parliamentary group, since there are no more amendments, has become an integral part of the bill. I just want to remind you that you have another eleven minutes, and four minutes has an authorised representative. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic-Markovic jointly submitted the 17th amendment. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Mrs. Donka Banovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37411	Article 17 refers to evidence of quality control and specific product characteristics. The promoter suggests that a certificate confirming quality and control cannot be more than six months old. We have here suggested that this certificate cannot be more than three months old. We think that control should be done more often when it comes to this type of product. I'm glad the promoter agreed with us. Twice a year may not be enough, at least not at first, perhaps later, it may be clear based on practice that it's enough and six months, but at first it's not enough to be every six months. Otherwise, the advantage of these products bearing this label is that the consumer is safe about the quality of this product, so that it has one psychological advantage when it comes to these products on the market. I thank the Proposer for accepting this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37412	Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Here you go, Mr. Ilich.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37413	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 20. The proposal for a law on designations of geographical origin, with a proposal to add in paragraph 1 a new point 2), which reads as follows: ‘the information relating to an undertaking or to a land owned by the applicant of the application’. Article 20. The draft law refers to what should contain requirements for registration of the name of origin, i.e. geographical indication. The proposer in the explanation of why the amendment was rejected says that all natural and legal persons may appear in the capacity of the applicant for recognition of the geographical indication, whether they are engaged or not in any manufacturing activity. However, point 3 of this same Article requires the applicant to indicate the type of product to be marked by a specific geographical name. How will the person, legally or physically, if there is no product that would be marked by a geographical name, fulfil this obligation referred to in point 3? So a natural or legal person won't be able to apply for a product produced by someone else. I submitted the amendment because it would complete the true state of affairs of the applicant's claim. I don't think there's anything wrong with the applicant asking, in addition to the other data, to provide information about the company and the landownership he owns, if he has it. If the applicant requires a natural person and does not engage in any production, then whose products will be indicated and whose authority? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37414	The 20th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Mrs. Vojić-Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37415	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is good that the Government has accepted this amendment, but it is simply a time to draw attention to something that is significant; almost every law has a similar definition – the government determines this or that. We believe, because of its efficiency and precision, because of its competence and how it is carried out, it must be... (President: Gentlemen of the Parliaments, we are not really able to monitor Mrs Vojic-Markovic's exposure. Please be a little quiet. ) Thank you, Madam President, but you didn't have to, they didn't even read the law, so they don't care. It is very important for the government to determine which organ to deal with this matter. Only then can we follow what is whose jurisdiction and how efficiency is carried out. Thank you for accepting this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37416	The MPs, of course, read the law. National MPs Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic submitted the 22nd amendment together. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37417	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 25 speaks of the order of application and their interrogation. Applications shall be examined in accordance with the order of application established according to the date of their submission. Exceptionally, from the provisions of Article 1, the application shall be resolved by emergency procedure in the case of, and point 2) – if an application for an international registration of the geographical indication is submitted, i.e. a request for registration of the geographical indication at European Community level, in accordance with the regulation of the European Community. I proposed that the words "registration request for the registration of a geographical indication at European Community level be deleted, in accordance with European Community rules", because I believe that the previous definition "International registration of the geographical indication" applies to all countries, so that the text whose erasure is proposed is excessive.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37418	The 25th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Donka Banovic. Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37419	Thank you, Madam President. Article 25 refers to the order of examinations of the application. We acted here on two basiss. After Article 2, we have added a new item 3, which reads: ‘In the cases referred to in Article 2, an application for an examination of an emergency application shall be submitted. “ After Article 3, we added a new item 4, which reads: “A special fee is paid for the application for an emergency application under Article 2(2) of this Article. “ What did we want to accomplish? We wanted to relieve people of paying taxis regularly and every time. You are saying that, in the case of proceedings brought before the court, the customs authorities or the inspection authority, at the request of the court, the customs authority or the competent inspection authority, shall not be charged, but shall be paid if an application for an international registration of the geographical indication is submitted, or a request for registration of geographical origin at the level of the European Community, in accordance with the European Community regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37420	The 26th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Donka Banovic. Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37421	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are two things in this member of the law that need to be discussed. It's that one state authority, in charge of intellectual property affairs, is seeking the opinion of another body, and that's fine. If the second authority does not deliver that opinion, the first authority, although without the opinion delivered, shall continue the procedure. This raises a simple question – do the state body and state function? What do we do if it doesn't work? Why do we need an organ like that? Does such an organ even need to exist? If it is not mandatory for him to deliver an opinion and the first authority can continue its work, is there any purpose of the existence of that body? There's no such thing as this law. That opens another question. During last and this year we talked about reducing the state apparatus, saving the budget; there were stories of government reconstruction, reducing the state apparatus, even one amendment to the budget was accepted, that a list of civil servants was published on the government's website by 31 January. Unfortunately, there is no such thing as today. What's the point of this story? The bottom line of this story is that despite the warning that the state authorities are not functioning, that they are too numerous, starting with the number of ministries, employees of the ministries, you are not taking care of it at all, you are wasting the taxpayers' money without a doubt. That's the problem we've been warning you about for two years and you're not responding to at all. Is there an answer to this question, this article that is completely pointless, that one state body is not working, that it does not deliver an opinion, and that the other body, without the opinion delivered, can continue its work? What do we need this state organ for anyway? What's the point of being? That's where ten or fifteen people from different parties are sitting, that they're getting paid, that they're not doing their job? It's a story about a state apparatus and a state administration. That doesn't seem to reach your brain and it's a sad state in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37422	The People's MP Radisa Ilic submitted to the 28th amendment. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MPs Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic jointly submitted to the 28th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mrs. Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37423	Thank you. This is the same kind or type of amendment as the one my colleague Milan Dimitrijevic spoke of. It is therefore a matter of attitudes in this article, where it is said that a competent authority which is asked to take an opinion on a matter of 60 days may and may not have to deliver an opinion, and if it does not deliver an opinion within 60 days, then the authority responsible for intellectual property activities will continue its work. Mr. Dimitrijevic explained it well. Why do we and through this law allow some competent state authorities to or do not have to do their job? So the authority responsible for intellectual property activities must do its job. He's asking for an opinion, and if that other authority doesn't deliver an opinion, the intellectual property authority has to do its job again. Why did you look so kindly at the obligations of other state authorities, and you have to carry out your duties?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37424	National MP Milorad Krstin has tabled an amendment proposing a change of title above Article 29. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Mrs. Vojic-Markovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37425	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Article 30 refers to a solution to the recognition and registration of the relevant register. The first point states: “If the competent authority gave a positive opinion on the fulfilment of the conditions for recognition of the name of origin, i.e. geographical indication, or if it did not give an opinion within the time limit laid down in Article 27(3) of this Law... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” Thus, we feel that this section should be deleted: “If, within the time limit set in Article 27, paragraph 3 of this Law, he did not give an opinion. ” It's not clear to me why we as a state are building a government, why we're making laws that have an alibi for the government not to do its job. If we formed an intellectual property body, it has to work; if we formed a government, it has to work. So the current situation in this country is – the government is not doing its job, so it also delegates to the authorities not to do their job. It's just not normal. We believe that in this country, to establish order, and order was once, until you came to this country, everyone has to do their job. Well, here you go, gentlemen of the government, doing your job.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37426	National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic-Markovic submitted together to the 35th amendment. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted the amendment to Article 37. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 39th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Donka Banovic. Mrs. Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic want a word. First Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37427	I'm sorry, but you haven't seen, I've applied for an amendment to Article 37. It is accepted, but again I would like to point out that the bill promoter absolutely had a hearing when it comes to quality control of these products. Thus, it will be prescribed that regular controls are carried out, and therefore appropriate certifications are issued, not every six months but every three months. I thank the Proposer for accepting this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37428	Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37429	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, in principle, this is fine, this member of the law, but he has to be improved. So it's a matter of urgency. Emergency requires an emergency. This application requires a special fee to be paid. Here's a chance for you to get some money out of your budget. So, we saw the possibility to put money in the budget in a legitimate, valid, completely legal way because there is urgency because of the reasons you listed in point 2). I don't see why you didn't accept this amendment. In the previous part of the law, which we were talking about, in Article 29, we have a problem with the usefulness of certain parts of the state apparatus, and in that part of the law where we offer you improvement and justification to collect income, you do not accept that amendment. So it's completely incomprehensible to me. We're trying to give you the opportunity to improve the law, you won't accept it, you're pushing a law like this, which, without the amendments, loses some sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37430	National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 40th amendment. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become part of the bill. You want a word, Mr. Zivanovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37431	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this law is one of the most important laws we've been working on so far, and it concerns issues of the production and transport of agricultural products, where there must be a large degree of control in food production, especially today when there is a major global economic crisis, when it strives to produce as much as possible and not pay attention to the quality of the product. The important thing is... I ask all of you who are present here for a little attention, because I can't hear my exposure from your sword at all. It is important that you know that the use of certain herbicides or insecticides in agricultural production can sometimes be dangerous. That's what I'm telling you from experience; I'm not an agricultural expert, but I've been doing some production. The production of potatoes uses timed fertilisers to fight the bugs, potato gold. It can be so dangerous, because as far as this artificial fertilizer is concerned, it can last for up to 90 days. What's the problem? The problem is that whoever manufactures this product, so the young potatoes are on the market, unfortunately, it can be a poisonous product...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37432	Mr. MP, your MP group no longer has time; it was another two minutes, you've now spent it. Thank you. The 41st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 42 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 42nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 43 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted to Article 46 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic-Markovic submitted together to the 48th amendment. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic to Article 49. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 50th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 53rd amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. The government has also accepted this amendment. The 54th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Mr. Vlad, you're out of time. Member of the 55th amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Science and Technological Development, submitted an amendment to Article 61. Has the Government accepted the Committee's amendment? Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37433	The government has accepted the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37434	The 63rd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 65 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 71st Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 84th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Donka Banovic. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 13th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amnesty (single) pursuant to Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called on the representatives of Ms. Snezana Malović, Minister of Justice and Milan Markovic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government to attend the meetings of Mr. Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Jovan Ćosic, Head of Justice and Vladimir Ceklic, an independent adviser at the Ministry of Justice. You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the bill: Dusan Maric, Milorad Buha, Sladjan Mijaljević, Nikola Savic, Momir Markovic, Sreto Peric, Mirko Munjic and Vladan Batic. You have received reports from the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Government's opinion on the amendments. Before moving to a search in particular, I remind you that the Legislative Committee, on the basis of Article 148(2). Rules of Procedure, rejected as an untimely amendment by the People's MP Vladan Batic to Articles 4, 5 and 11 and as incomplete amendments by the MPs Sladjan Myajević, Nikola Savic, Sreta Perić and Momir Markovic who submitted to Article 1. In accordance with Article 148(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, rejected amendments cannot be discussed and are not voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Since I haven't given the best estimate of the time, and I asked the minister who should be with us at this point to come around 11.10 - 11.15 hours, we will continue at 11.10 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37435	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue to work in the morning part of the session, after the break, by discussing in particular the 13th item of the agenda – the draft law on amnesty. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Is anyone answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37436	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 which provides for the granting of amnesty to all persons who, from 18 April 2006 until the date of entry into force of this law, have committed or who are suspected of having committed the following crimes: the avoidance of military obligations, the avoidance of lists and checks, the non-execution of material obligations, the avoidance of military service by incapacitation and deception, the arbitrary absence and escape from the Serbian Army. Amnesty would include the release from prosecution, the release from the execution of sentence and the erasure of conviction. I suggested that this date be deleted on 18 April 2006, and that the amnesty should cover all persons who, by the day of adoption of this law, committed those crimes, with a desire to make this the last amnesty of this species, especially amnesty with this size of the perpetrators of these crimes. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the third or fourth time in this house to pass a law on amnesty, a law on forgiveness, on those who have committed serious crimes against the security of the Republic of Serbia. The fact itself is the best confirmation of that folk proverb, "Hernak's mother whines, Began's mother sang." In itself, forgiveness is a noble act. Forgiveness is the essence of Christianity. However, if the state regularly forgives, if it rewards those who have deserted, those who do not carry out one of the most important legal and moral obligations of every citizen of every country, which is an obligation to participate in the defence of the country and to prepare for the defence of the country, then the question of the responsibility of the state to those citizens who carry out those obligations on time and in accordance with the law is raised. In particular, it is a matter of responsibility to individuals who have died for Serbia while carrying out the obligation, and a particular issue of responsibility to their families. Turns out the state has brutally cheated on them, led them to their death. Here's why. At the time of the mobilization for the war, the state said everyone must participate in the defence of the country. She threatened that all those who did not respond to the call for mobilization, who would desert, would respond according to the strictest regulations. As we know, as we can see, the state has not fulfilled its promise, the state has lied to its citizens. In no way has she punished those who deserted, but she rewards them with amnesty. The same is true of people who refused to serve a regular military term. Those who served their military time, who respected their country, who had been training hard for a year to defend it, were deceived. They turned out to be naive and lost a year of time. Maybe because of going to the army, especially those who worked with the privates, they lost their jobs. At best, those serving a regular military deadline lost revenues of several thousand euros due to unaccepted regular incomes. Perhaps one of them missed an extremely important job at the family estate, perhaps one lost a year of study or a year of professional training. Now I'm going to make one comparison. I will remind Serbia a few days ago paid 250,000 euros to the Ivan Stambolic family for the suffering of mental pain due to his death. I ask one question - if the state paid 250,000 euros for mental pain to Mr Stambolic's family, how much money should it pay Dragoljub and Nadi Milic from Gojbula near Vučitrn, now refugees in the Kingdom, whose two sons Srdjan and Boban died in Kosovo and Metohija defending Serbia? The state has no responsibility for Mr Stambolic's death. The state didn't kill him or trick him into death. The verdict found that the crimes were committed by individuals, or by a group of individuals. The question arises why would the state pay because a group of individuals for unknown reasons, perhaps just to harm the state of Serbia, kill Ivan Stambolic? As far as I'm concerned, I have one question -- has the state taken responsibility for this crime taken over the Hague tribunal's hoax on the collective guilt of the Serb people, so whenever any of the Serbs commits a crime, that's what the guilty Serbian people and the whole state are for? On the other hand, the state is directly responsible for the death of the Milic brothers. She called them to defend her. They died following orders given by the state of Serbia. If the state has paid 250,000 euros to the family of a man for suffering mental pain, I ask the question – how many tens of millions of euros should be paid to the family of two young men of 25 years, brothers of twins who have obeyed the order of the state have died, destroyed the family lineage? Another question arises: why doesn't the state pay for the damage to the family of Veselin Boskovic, Zvonko Osmajlic and others who were killed at Ibarska masteral? The families of military deserters accept amnesty with enthusiasm and that is understandable, human, but the state must consider how this amnesty is accepted by families of 1.005 police officers and soldiers who died defending Kosovo and Metohija. The state has to think about how they feel today. Or families of more than 3,000 Serb soldiers and police officers who, by order of the state, left Belgrade to go to war in Croatia and BiH and to die there. These families, be assured, feel deceived, played, maimed. The message the state sends them is very problematic, humiliating – we were joking. The essential question is: should the state take more care of the feelings of those who defended her, who enforce her laws, or the feelings of those who left her in the lurch, who betrayed her? The question arises who and how much will pay for the mental pain of Ivan and Draga Filipovic, who died both sons, Slavisa and Siniš in one day of war for Kosovo and Metohija? Or the family Kostic of Retinj, near Orahovec, who was killed in one day by 14 inhabitant men's heads? Most of them were mobilized by the state. An even more drastic example, what is this mental pain, and who should assess the spiritual pain of the Berish family from Kpuz at Klina, whose two sons, Shiptara, died following orders from the state of Serbia? Izet died in Vukovar, and Adam died during NATO's aggression against the SRJ in Pristina. When it comes to the obligation to defend the state and the obligation to serve the military, there are two options, two logical solutions. The first is for the congregation to adopt the law that the defence of the country and the service of the sacred term are a obligation and to ensure compliance with these obligations. The second is that this assembly adopts the law that defence of the country and military service are not a legal obligation, that the military serve only anyone who will; that if it is attacked, Serbia defends whoever will. One and the other is a better solution than the practice so far that those who defend the country suffer, and those other countries reward. Ladies and gentlemen, I am now speaking to the ruling majority, on one side you are conducting a media and judicial coup against most of the participants in the country's wars. Soon you will reach The Hague's tribunal in pressing charges against Serbs. You're acting like one of those folk songs that talks about the drive of the Turks to the crowd: "What's missed by Mali Radojica, welcomes Deli Radivoje, which is missed by Deli Radivoje, welcomes by Starina Novace. “ I apologize for comparing you with these perpetrators of serious and systematic crimes against the Ottoman Turks. Which Serbian wartime politicians did not accuse, the Croatian, Muslim, Slovenian, Cypriot prosecutor's office, for not accusing them of the UN tribunal, the prosecutor's office in Belgrade has accused them. On the other hand, you paid some fighters ten war logs for each day spent on the battlefield, most of you paid just one, and there are those you didn't give a single dinar. I'm one of them. In four years I spent as a member of Serbia's armed forces on the battlefield, I didn't even get a dime. And it's a good thing I didn't get it, defending my country in a machine with my brothers is the greatest honor a Serbian son can experience, and it can't be paid with any money. On the third hand, you amnesty of military deserters. On the fourth side, most soldiers serve you a military deadline without knowing what a rifle looks like, except for the knowledge they've acquired by watching American movies. Finally, a fundamental question arises: who will defend Serbia tomorrow if attacked after everything you do?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37437	Nine minutes and fifteen seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37438	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished citizens of Serbia, we have a very important law in front of us, from the point of view of government. Namely, by proposing this law, which is legitimate because amnesty is a legitimate and legitimate criminal law institute, you have entered into a particular matter that has very negative repercussions and will cause very negative relations in practice. What's this about? It's just that the current government has legalized desertion. What was a sacred obligation, which was a moral obligation, which was an honor, a law like this, and previous laws on amnesty and other regulations that regulated this area... You've legalized an illegal act. What's even more devastating is that the highest government officials are making certain acts that they have no right to. I will start with President Tadic, who officially, as president of the state, came out with an attitude, I don't know on the basis of what regulation, that Serbia is giving up the requirement that Ejupu Ganic, a war criminal, be tried before the authorities of the Republic of Serbia, but that BiH is left with it. Who Ejup Ganic is, I will read from Dimitri Ristevski's book "Psychological Rehabilitation of Serbia", which conveys in his book the words he said in front of BiH TV cameras. "The vice-president of the BiH presidency, Ejup Ganic, who led the attack on the JNA column in Sarajevo, which was guaranteed by the president of the presidency, Ali Izetbegovic, orders," said Mr Dimitri Ristevski, "Juki Prazini and says - kill Serbs and soldiers without mercy, peel them and bake them. Serbian cattle will not walk in Sarajevo. Now show yourself, Yuka. Juka Prazina answers these words of his superior, in this case the BiH Vice-President – don't worry, boss, it will be so, and even worse, for this Serbian vermin." Aren't these words an invitation to ethnic cleansing and genocide? Aren't these words a real invitation to genocide over the Serb people in BiH? The same words were said by representatives of the government in the Republic of Croatia. I will read to you just one sentence from Vice-President of Parliament Sheks, in the previous assembly of the President of the Parliament: "Serbian Serbs are only good if they are underground". This clearly speaks of the character of the government in Croatia and BiH. This government amnesty, an active and passive relationship, all those war crimes perpetrators in the former Yugoslavia. What this authority needs to do is that at no time forgive all that the representatives of the government, state authorities and all others have done in the space of the former Yugoslavia, as it is also not forgiven by representatives of BiH, representatives of Croatia, representatives of Slovenia. The judicial authorities of the Republic of Serbia are facing dozens of cases against Serbs from Republika Srpska. I will mention here several procedures that are near the end: "Ovcara", "Lovas", Baranja's procedure opened, the open process of Tenja, tomorrow will be Vukovar, the day after tomorrow will be Knin, etc. They do not forgive, file applications and all documents to the judicial authorities, the Special Prosecutor's Office and the Special Court in the Republic of Serbia, which conduct the proceedings. What have we done? Unfortunately, there is no justice minister here to tell us what the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia are doing, the judicial authorities of the Republic of Serbia to sue all of them and to take action against all those who killed 7,000 Serbs from Republika Srpska. Are the proceedings in Croatia against those who killed 100 Serbs in Zagreb from 1991 to 1993, 1994, in Osijek 185, in Sisak 611, in Gospić 120, etc? We amnesty these laws and laws of those who have committed fewer crimes, not what we do, in terms of humanity, justice and justice, which has been committed over our people. This country is silent. It's embarrassing for this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37439	Three minutes and fifty-five seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is by MP Vlatko Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37440	Thank you, Madam Vice President. First of all, it is important for the public to point out that this bill does not amnesty to any person who has committed or is suspected of a crime in the field of war crimes. So this is about a particular group of crimes related to the Serbian Army, but not war crimes. So, I will remind you that war crimes do not go out of date and that the authorities of the Republic of Serbia who are responsible are doing everything, our public is well aware of that, that all war criminals are being prosecuted. As for the very amendment of my colleagues, I do not think this amendment should be accepted, given that, in the event of the adoption of such an amendment, it would be a decriminalisation of these crimes. The amendment requires that the words "until the day of entry into force of this law" be deleted. Amnesty, by its nature, must cover a certain period of time, in particular from 18 April 2006 until the date of entry into force of this law. If the amendment of the People's MP Milorad Buha was accepted, these crimes would be deleted from the Criminal Law and this incrimination would no longer exist. For these reasons, the amendment is unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37441	One minute and thirty seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37442	I must say at first that what Mr. Vlatko said does not stand in Mr. Buha's amendment. The fact that he was using some other argument that he wanted to convince the MPs why his amendment was good, that's another dimension. We must draw attention to, above all, those who exercise power, including the public, and also to those who, within the framework of the legislative authority, influence it, some of the questions that inevitably this law and even the laws on amnesty are opening. They, of course, are opening up, above all, this great moral dilemma – how can a man stand up to the state and how can a man fulfill his obligations to the state? As a rule, when a citizen fulfils his obligations to the state, he is considered a loyal citizen, depending on the law, or in some way worships, as a form of social satisfaction and recognition, and in case a man fails to comply with his legal obligation, he suffers a proper sanction. The sanctions are, as a rule, in the Penal Code. This bill treats several of the very serious crimes listed in Articles 394, 395, 396, 397, and 399. These are serious crimes that fall under a large group of crimes against defence and the military. As long as there is a legal and constitutional obligation for the state to guarantee the defence of territory and people, and as long as there is a obligation to provide and guarantee security to all citizens, so as long as there is a commitment, there must probably be sanctions if someone is guilty of a legal obligation. Mr Maric rightly raised the issue of how the state treats citizens who fulfil obligations and citizens who do not meet their obligations. He came to the conclusion that this law gives subsequent satisfaction and social recognition to people who have said – I don't respect the state, I don't respect my country. The conclusion can be drawn, given the consequences suffered by some citizens who respected the obligation, that they were played. What would be said, the people's belief in the mad joy. We can't send messages like that. Mr Buha's amendment extends the time frame prescribed by Article 1. It's a bill of law. But we in continuity have amnesty when it comes to these crimes. So, what has been affected since 7 October 2000, so practically to this day, because this is the second law, which just continues; this law only extends, from, I think, April 18, 2006. That's the date the previous law was passed. So, since 5 October, since 7 October 2000, a new system of values has been promoted continuously, which is, you don't have to fulfil your obligations to the state, count, there will be amnesty, when it comes to these five or six criminal acts concerning the defence of the state. That's the bad message. Of course, this law opens up another dilemma. As much as it goes to forgiveness from prosecution, in a broad sense of criminal prosecution, this law does not solve the problem. It is theoretically possible that, after the adoption of this law, these same persons will be held accountable again. It's just enough for someone in the military department to invite them to do military duty and not respond, and they're back in the realm of criminal responsibility. Why? Because what they have not been freed from and what this law does not release is a military, labour and material obligation, which is prescribed by another law, which has just that name. It is likely that you can understand the authority that has problems how 5,000 suspects (not to go with any other qualification, defendants or defendants) call for a court of law, so how else do you punish them, how do you ensure that they can possibly support a prison sentence? Prisons are from a year to a practically twelve years old. There's no capacity. The problem that also opens up is what would have happened if the state had called, so these 5,000, 6,000 people responded, could the Ministry of Defense have fulfilled that second part of its commitment to military bonds? This ministry couldn't meet the obligation. Why? Because since 2000, everything has been systematically done to bring down our army. For what? Some international obligations have been taken over, and that should be said. There are some international documents. It should be said openly – Europe is mostly demilitarized. Almost everyone enters the NATO Pact system, which appears as a guarantee of the inviolability of borders, imaginary, imaginary borders, because it is believed that the situation will never appear in Europe that the armed forces of a country cross the border and attack another state. This is considered, and since it is a utopia of the EU, then what is the defence, which are military effects, it is reduced, it goes to one decorative approach and security as many armies as it takes for Europe to demonstrate its peace policy in other places, such as Iraq, Afghanistan, sometimes Timor, etc., who knows where. Unlike America, which is promoted as a cowboy, Europe is promoted by economic co-operation, credit, approval of credit elsewhere, Asia and Africa, and a mirage called standards, norms, normative standards. These are the two instruments on which Europe is building its future. Utopian-observed, there's no room for any major objection. Realistically, there's a danger. The security forces are developing in parallel with that. That's what it's supposed to be like as a police force or a paramilitary police force. In France, it's a gendarme, in Italy it's carabiniers, special forces that need to respond to the appearance of terrorism and as many of those forces that need to calm down social unrest, demonstrations, strikes and something that could appear uncontrollably. It is some space where they have plotted to develop our security and defence forces, and then my colleagues, MPs of the SRS, calling for not so long ago, just want to show you what is happening today, so Mr. Buha took advantage of the example of Ejup Ganić and what is happening in the Republic of Croatia. I could use another plastic example. Take today's "Politics", read the text "Will Rights Be Returned to the Deleted, 25,000 People". Europe cannot force Slovenia to respect human rights. Don't interpret me putting it in the context of the armed forces. No, I'm just putting this in the context of the pride, dignity and tradition of this people, aware of the fact that our children for the past twenty years have been able to get messages about something that is a system of value, but a corrupt system of values. They believe that this is normal, even the terms are adapted to this time, and not only are they different from tradition, but they also differ from something that is widely accepted and civilizational achievement. We are probably all aware of the importance of military and military traditions in the Serbian people. It seems like a joke, but it's a big one: sometimes someone couldn't get married if they didn't serve the army, so the young people looked at the letter to see if it was, so it was evidence not only of manhood but of maturity at all. My parents made a big send-off. Today, though, they're making e-mails, and when they go to civilian service. Some make a send-off even if their children don't join the army. Why? To repay his relatives, friends, neighbors he was with a few years ago. Why are we destroying this tradition? This is the destruction of that tradition. No one has been released from military, material and labour obligations, and liability for non-compliance with military, material and labour obligations is released. Seems a little pointless. I think you've messed up the laws you should've changed. Is our army ready to receive as many recruits as it comes under natural laws, in accordance with the law that prescribes military obligations? Probably not. The Department of Defense has decided that we should go to professionalization. We should probably cut that military obligation. It is probably necessary to adapt to this current state, but it is abolished – what is the effect? It directly penetrates what is the essence of this people and the souls of this people. We're a small people, we don't have those pretenties. We need to protect our own. Today, the army serves more as a deterrent. The stories that there will be no aggression in Europe, so that was 1991; and the KEBS documents, and the Paris Charter for New Europe, the integrity of borders, so the Germans joined together, and everything else broke apart. It was another international standard. That's how standards work in Europe. Read this text from “Politika” – 25,000 deleted. And read the sentences about their deportation in 1992. Even today, these people are not recognised rights. How can we as a state guarantee our citizens security, both in Serbia and beyond Serbia? Such laws? No, I don't. This is a routine law. Why routine? It passed in 2006, so why don't we go through 2010 as well? Is there an excuse? There's probably an excuse. If so many thousands of people volunteered to fulfil their obligation, the state would not be willing to accept it; and the state would punish them all and enforce the law – there is no capacity for it. Why didn't you agree military, labour and material obligations with the needs and levels to be provided, so that from this category of people who have fulfilled their military obligations, the military provides the ability for a future professional army? But no, we have the elements of the verse. Here, last night you had a chance to see that manager, the director of the Military Academy. The greatest range of our cadets and future officers is to know several foreign languages, to master knowledge compatible with some West Point schools, etc., to train for peacekeeping missions. He doesn't hide a man, he talks openly where that bright future is. Of course, NATO standards etc. When it is said -- NATO standards, then it is likely that they are also thinking about schooling and preparing for some future armed conflict in the east. NATO has survived, survived, seen for itself, although it is on the edge, although everyone sees the absurdity of the existence of such a NATO, but it survives as a result of the supremacy and operation of a megasil, a single megasil, which is practically a military factor that holds probably half of humanity in its kind of captivity and addiction. According to the Constitution, we have obligations regarding security and defence, as regards other regulations, we have adequate, military, labour and material obligations. The army used to be two years old, so it was a year, so nine months, so six months, if there was a reason to keep it down, I don't know. Someone can judge it, see, etc., but in this way devalue the military obligation, in this way devalue the feeling of people, what kind of attitude they have towards the state, it's devastating. If you're looking at it this way and you're sending this message when it comes to the country's military obligation, please, then don't be surprised that it's already being kidnapped in public on the buses, or what's happening on the street. Obviously, someone is counting on some kind of amnesty; if not by law, then on the fact that the link, the link, the bribe, the corruption, the friendship, etc., and the state shows at every turn that it is not capable of fulfilling the other part of its obligations. Of course there are some questions opening up again. Issues are being raised, so I don't move on, which are intruding into the foundation of the state, the foundation of the organization and the system. Most of our amendments have been submitted not to correct this text, you are aware of it, but to point to the seriousness that our country is collapsing. The foundations of our country are collapsing. The messages we send to the citizens are confusing and always misread. He's interpreting how a man can avoid his obligation. How long are we going to do that? I guess one system, one organization and one system of values should be promoted. You know, democracy doesn't mean anarchy. Democracy probably means the rule of law, but exactly what's written, not what someone would put a finger on their forehead, so they would interpret. Is this how we demonstrate that we are going towards democratic society? We are a democratic society, but are we developing it as a democratic society? Anything you don't pay on the bridge, you pay on the pot. He comes sooner or later. There's some math that can be done in the media -- this law pays for us, we saved so much, we saved so much, so on, but the message is dangerous. Guys, the message is dangerous. You see for yourself, when it comes to Serbia, when it comes to Serbs, that they are double arches. Please, double arches. Probably some things and all that's been happening to us will be a world miracle recorded in world history for all time, what the international community has done with this space. Just to remind you, in 1994 the United Nations was present in Rwanda. They purposely reduced the military effect to several, 250 observers, so there was genocide - 1,075,000 dead. The United Nations, apparently. Double standards. We're under pressure, and you can see some bullshit about Turkey's condemnation of genocide against the Armenians. He won't read Obama, he won't. He will not read; he will not condemn, but read the sentence in his speech, which shall be spoken to the nation in a matter of days. Remember what they did in Tuzla, and where they did everything they did here. Remember 1999, don't go any further. I guess it's clear to all of us that you can change power here as much as you want, that power can come here as much as it pleases, from all meridians, but their politics here doesn't change. It doesn't change. Understand. This is where politicians who believed the West, who spoke to the West, who were negotiating. Whoever enters that system of negotiations, talks, deals, has been cheated, has been cheated at the beginning. Why? Because free cheese is offered, and he's only in a mouse-hunter and he's in distress, and then one day a man says, "How am I supposed to accept this, so I'm working against myself?" I took the freshest example, today was published – twenty-five thousand citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have the status of deleted, most of which are Serbs. Read the text. They were deported in 1992. Ask this Kacin when he gets here some time, he's been doing a media campaign from Cankar's home about how aggression is, what happened to those soldiers who died without ammunition there. Do you allow everyone to give us a lecture? Those who did not look in their pocket or their yard did not clean. Here, they don't clean it today either. What does their opposition say? All those deleted, he says, a referendum, to hitchhike the law; he says, all those who deported in 1992 – aggressors and speculators. And people went there to work, and there was a fall of former SFRY there, ten, fifteen years worked, lived, exiled; thirteen thousand of them hid, and somehow they solved a right, twelve thousand -- they didn't confess to them. They define some legal status, and as far as other human rights are concerned, property is not recognised. And they say they can't even make it to court. And they're giving us a lecture on human rights! You listen to them, too! So don't, please. I bring you their data, what they say about themselves, to get out of those jaws, to understand: Serbia and the interests of this people and all citizens living in the territory of the Republic of Serbia are first. It is the first and only point of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That is why we are obliged to have unity, not about how anyone sits on a chair, to force some Western policy to some extent, and when they see that it's pointless, that they're dealing with disdain for both the people and our state officials, then in time we take a break, so let's wait, I can do both with the East and the West, I'm also for democracy, I'm also for this, I'm for that too. Where's the value system? What are our children, our grandchildren supposed to believe? They'll ask us, if not our children and these grandkids, probably some new grandkids, where we've been, what we've been doing, why we haven't found what's common here, what's interest in everything, but we've been courting. Some people visit foreign embassies, ask for some help, something they play there. All they care about is the election. All they care about is the election - to support me, to have coalition capacity. Well, the works are what makes you appreciated who did what. Do we have any work to boast about? What should we brag about? As you can see, we don't attack those who will be released under the provisions of this law, we don't attack them either, but direct the state. What have you freed? You'll release someone from responsibility. What if the one in the military department sends that man a call to report for military service? He's being prosecuted again. What, then, depends on prosecution? From an officer in the military department. Well, one of my friends, he's 55 years old, they sent a recruiting call the other day! He, a poor man, was a volunteer for four years on the battlefield; he wanted a poor man to die of suffering when he received a call. Take care of the country. Set up a state. Consider whether something needs to be changed about military, material, and work obligations. The wrong law is being changed and the wrong example is being set. Is there something in the army that needs to be changed? You should. Which way is it supposed to change? What can we do economically? Where can we go? Work, negotiate, see, but secure an army. We need the defense, people. Get out of those prejudices. Twenty-two years ago, this JNA was drawn as a criminal, and The Hague exists among other things to prove it was a criminal organization. They can't prove it. Out of the way, people, a little bit, give this country space, give space to this people. Give the system of values, so the citizen knows – this is the law, this is applied, this is respected. If an obligation under the law is escipated, sanctions shall follow by nature. We confuse people, you confuse them with these laws. Even if you put in humanity, if you put in any other concepts on the basis of which you'd like to defend this senseless law, then we've fried it to the end, then no wonder what happens to us every day.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37443	Twenty-seven minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The People's Messenger Vlajko Senić has the word, and Srdjan Milivojević, the Messenger of the people, Vlatko Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37444	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, the honourable MPs, I think this debate is quite useful and we as the ruling coalition do not run away from the fact that this law has a certain political dimension. We are in this way fulfilling our political, I would say, and a moral obligation towards people who have been wrongly prosecuted, because it was a policy that failed to mobilise people, who failed to convince citizens that it was worth responding to the call for mobilization, that it was worth laying down their lives for such a policy. Of course, we express our deepest condolences to the families of those who have lost their lives because of this and such policy, but it cannot make us not to pass this law and to give amnesty to people who did not accept that state policy as something that was worth it and as something they believed in. I think that this law, unlike your discussion, we clearly lay the foundations of the future and send people a message that, not this government, because it is not a question of a government, but that Serbia will never again be in a position to mobilise young people, to mobilize children, to send them to war without knowing the war's goals. If we return only in 1999, at the time of the NATO pact bombing, many people were mobilized, many people died, and ultimately, the policy had to confess defeat and withdraw and sign a practical capitulation. Now the question arises whether we were wrong because today we are giving amnesty or were those who were convinced that such a policy could produce results? As for Serbia's future, we see Serbia as part of a collective security system -- fortunately, it is already a member of the Partnership for Peace -- and we are convinced that Serbia cannot preserve its security as a country that will be isolated in the Western Balkans region, which will not co-operate with all the countries in the environment and that will not establish, as you said, NATO standards in its military. I believe that this is how we send a clear message that we are not alone in the future, that there will not be some irresponsible government in the future that will take decisions that will risk the lives of its citizens and that, when we talk about security (and you must know that our army is going to speed up to professionalisation, which we absolutely welcome), Serbia with its armed forces, smaller but more efficient, will be part of the wider security sector and that in this way we will protect both our national interests and the lives of our citizens. I need to look back at the state's compensation debate and how much state should pay the families of the people who were killed. Former President Ivan Stambolic is mentioned. Because of his dignity and his relationship to his family, the fact that the former president of Serbia ended up in a cave with paint... I don't think it's worthy of this assembly to mention his fate and to make fun of the fact that the former president of Serbia, a month before the election, was kidnapped from, showed up afterwards, civil servants, murdered and thrown into a cave with paint, that after a few years, when his remains were discovered, there was practically nothing left of him. The elemental human dignity requires us not to play with these things and thus to understand once again what kind of state we lived in until 2000, and to show by adopting this law that such things are not going to happen in the future, but that they will not be able to think of anyone else. Therefore, G17 plus will support the adoption of this law, as our commitment to the past and as a message to the future that such a time in Serbia will no longer return. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37445	Four minutes and thirty seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. (Zoran Krasic throws out of place. You have no right to a replica. People's MP, please don't throw it away, but I said who was registered for the amendment to article 1 submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh, and the word is by MP Srdjan Milivojevic, followed by MP Vlatko Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37446	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and above all respected citizens of Serbia, my colleague Vlatko Ratkovic has made clear with his excellent legal knowledge why such amendments should not be accepted from a legal point of view. However, here we have heard a number of political disqualifications imputed to the Democratic Party and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is reportedly said that the government of the Republic of Serbia is promoting desertion. As a Kruševljan, I know what heroic endeavor you made in 1999, as a Kruševljan I know how many of my fellow citizens went to wars from 1991 to 1999. Mothers of the Kings, Leskovci, Chačka, Novi Pazar, I speak to you, never again in Serbia's mothers will give birth to children in order to be a tribute to one's politics and never again to the young generations of Serbia, because I assume that young people are watching the transfer now, too, there will be heroes of lost wars and guardians of missed opportunities. There are no more victories to be won by the storm. Serbia has been defined as winning by knowledge, culture, skill, competition in technological and cultural knowledge. Of course, no one argues that every man's obligation, including the MPs in this room, is to defend our country the next day if it is attacked. The Wadda Serbs responded to their kings, kings, and rulers for the battle to fight for their country's freedom. Wadda was remembered in history as heroes, as warlords, as men who in difficult times celebrated the country of Serbia. On the other hand, when we look at the effects of the policy of war and the price we are paying today, it is clear that Serbia must once and for all promote a peaceful policy, a policy that with the world, if there is a conflict, will face us exclusively in the diplomatic field and plan. Anyone in this country who goes out to the cemetery on Zadravnica and sees how many young people in military uniforms are resting in Kraševec, Leskovac, Kralje, all over Serbia, it is clear how much the price is paid for our defeats and failures. It is clear to every man in this country that the state of Serbia, the Ministry of Defence, and anyone who loves this country and who has been given responsibility to manage this country has no intention of sending in Janitors and soldiers across the planet to fight for anyone's interests. It is clear that after a major police action and security structures under the Morava police action, Serbia is becoming a very important factor in the security structure of the entire world in record cocaine confiscation. We are very clear that Serbia is dealing with organised crime and those who imput us that organised crime will be amnesty because of some law on amnesty are wrong. You can cry over the fate of criminals all you want, but anyone who has poisoned the youth of this country will answer. Anyone who's been poisoning heroin, cocaine and other drugs will be responsible for the hate in the election. There'll never be black scarfs in this country again. Jelek, antheria and the outsiders will be the folk costume of Serbia, not black. Therefore, Serbian citizens, we will not accept such amendments. We'll investigate the passing of laws like this. We'll investigate in the fight against organized crime. We will investigate in restoring the dignity of all institutions in this country that have been lost in previous years. We will investigate in efforts and efforts to ensure that the young people of this country never again become victims of the wrong policy, never again be cannon meat for someone's wise and victorious wars. We will investigate in efforts to ensure that no young life is wasted in vain, because there are very few of us left to try again to re-evaluate the fallen planet and stop the wheel of evolution. Our contribution to the world, to civilization, to culture, to our competition with the world will take place in the field of sports, in the fields of culture, science and technology. There are victories for which we will recruit hundreds of thousands of young people. Recruitment will take place in classrooms, in universities, in cities, in production plants, in fields, where Serbia has ways to compete with the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37447	Four minutes and fifty seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word is from MP Vlatko Ratkovic, authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37448	Thank you. Not contesting the right of any member of the people to bring about valuable courts on certain social phenomena, including the Serbian Army, I must respond to the qualification that the Serbian Army is broken. That's what counterpart Krasic said, that Serbia's army is devastated. This qualification or evaluation court, a colleague of Krasic, deny the facts, deny life. This is not just a question of citizenship polls – which the institution enjoys the highest trust among citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is a question of facts, notorious facts, exact and verifiable facts. Never like today, the Serbian Army has had such a position as to respond to calls for recruitment. There's never been this many applications for military schools, high school and military academy as they are now. The material situation, the state of arms, and that segment is in an ever-increasing position, and here we have one rise line. It is limited, of course, to a defined budget for Serbia's Army, but these are also exact and verifiable facts. All this, including the activities of the Ministry of Defence, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and this Parliament to adopt strategic documents, the Defence Strategy and the laws we recently adopted and passed, makes the Serbian Army a regional factor in the peace and stability of this part of Europe. When she's that factor, then it's the Republic of Serbia. Easily state the qualifications that the Serbian Army is broken simply deny life and deny facts.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37449	It was used two minutes from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is twenty-six minutes and forty-five seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37450	Mrs. Comic, I've called to correct some of the facts. I'm not going into the emotional state or the opinion of others, but for the public's sake, I need to draw attention to the fact that this law gives amnesty from 18 April 2006, so that this epicly inspired part is not tied to 2000, but to the period from 18 April 2006 to today. Since 18 April 2006, only the Serbian Radical Party has not been in power until today. Everyone else was in power, or they were in favor of power. When you say that someone for a reason refused to answer the call because they had some animosity toward the government, then count on you to talk about who was in power from April 18, 2006 to today. If you want to go back to the Kosovo color, say, then Mrs. Comic will schedule a special session with the Kosovo Battle theme, but today we are not talking about it, today we are talking about democratic power. At first, I reminded you that the previous law also covered a period of democratic power since 7 October 2000. And then we weren't there, we were radicals, in the government of course. When you talk, take care. We're in charge of reminding you of the dates, because we have press-clipping for everyone. Absolutely for everything. We're not breaking anything, we're not making fun of anything here, we're not making an example of what we're using in the debate as something that should be diminished. No, we're just making adequate comparisons. What's our goal? To restore pride, dignity, and tell the people that he who exercises power must take care of the state. In the broadest sense of words, what it means – both people, and territory, and human rights, and democracy, and defence and security. And we support the fight against organised crime, we support the fight against narcotics. For years, we've been calling the state authorities here because they're mild in drug deals. I also called on some state officials to stand behind it, just to remind you, but it's not today's topic. I hope that from Monday, when the Security and Defence Committee is finished, when the data finally comes out, someone is going to be oblivious, someone's not going to be adjudicated, we're going to get some information. We are helping everyone in the fight against crime, but we are talking about a period since the DOS came to power today and about how young it has been to a military obligation, which has been respectful to the representatives of the democratic government in this period. So, don't do 1999, 1991, it's not about this law. It's over a long time ago. That story is over. When I hear such beautiful criticisms on account... Believe me, I share an opinion with you, but then you were in power, then you could solve it within the party, within the government, within the parliament. You haven't solved it. What do we do to you?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37451	Three minutes and fifty seconds used by the MP's group. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. The time available to the parliamentary group is eighty-eight minutes. Here you go. After him, the People's Messenger, Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37452	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, without the intention of entering any controversy and of restoring the debate in the context of this law, I am pleased that certain MPs read the law carefully and know what time-limit this law refers to. However, when we pass a law, it does not simply serve to correct a situation and to comply with the laws we make. We in Serbia have a situation that the consequences of someone's power that lasted very briefly can be felt for a very long time, unfortunately. It is nothing new in historical practice, but it is new in political practice that MPs of certain political parties are allowed every possible argument. When they talk about the amnesty law, they call for 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994 and 1995 war crimes, what was committed towards the Serb people. It is good to call on war crimes and have in their debate as arguments and war crimes. We will have, hopefully, in a few days here soon a much more complex debate about one declaration concerning war crimes, and everyone will have opportunities and opportunities to show his political attitude and his political opinion of certain events from our immediate past. When we talk about the law on amnesty, of course this law needs to be brought into line with the laws that we have made in our efforts to reform the army. Of course these laws, as I once again underline, do not propagate desertion. On the contrary, these laws allow our young people to return to the country uninterruptedly and create an atmosphere of security in this country through strengthening science, culture, those institutions that have celebrated the Serbian people and the Serbian state throughout history. The Republic of Serbia is the state of all its citizens, and those who are in opposition and those in power, but also those who do not deal with politics, who and how they carry the consequences because of the wrong policy, so let's not point our finger at each other who is guilty. Citizens have made it clear who they consider guilty of the current situation. That's what they said in Negotina, and in Vorbas, and in Ojacs, and Vranjska Banja in the last elections. Let those who have received the citizens' trust take advantage of that trust to work and make those efforts necessary for the state of Serbia to have its place in the family of European states. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37453	Two minutes and thirty seconds used by the MP's group. The People's MP Milorad Buha has been reported in the electronic system. Now you're not, if you like, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37454	Since I was mentioned by Mr. Ratkovic, my replica refers to...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37455	People's MP, you didn't get the right to a replica, you speak using the time of the MP's group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37456	Look, I was mentioned by Mr. Ratkovic, I didn't get a chance, and I answered, but I didn't get a chance on your part to replicate Mr. Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37457	Use the MP's time, you have twenty-three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37458	I don't want the time, I want the replica, I have the right to the replica. The messenger's right, I've been mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37459	You have no right.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37460	I was also mentioned by Mr. Krasic...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37461	You have no right to a replica. If you want, you can use the MP's time group. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Momir Markovic, and the People's Messenger Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37462	Before I move on to the defense of the amendment, I will also use part of the time of the parliamentary group. I think it would be best if both the Minister of Justice and the Minister of War were here, because this law opens up, directly, a series of other problems and leaves other problems unsaid. Before I go through with this, I'll tell you one thing. About a month and a half ago, a young man from Altina received a call for military service. Then there was that imaginary swine flu, the imaginary pandemic, the epidemic, etc., and they didn't receive any soldiers. A month and a half ago, he was arrested by military officers and taken to military service. If one of his comrades, who also didn't serve military time and got a call, took advantage of the opportunity and hid himself and was not found by the military police, say, he will be released today by this law. This law opens many things from chapter 35, Art. 396, 395, 397, 399, and if we were to pass this amnesty law as you predicted, much would remain unspeakable and incomplete. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, what about the crimes that are being prosecuted before the courts, and they have a direct link to those crimes in Article 1, starting with the escape from the Serbian Army, so the avoidance of military obligations, the non-execution of material obligations, the avoidance of military service by incapacitation and deception, etc.? Such crimes are regulated by other members of the Criminal Code. Therefore, by adopting this proposed law, there will be no amnesty for all. For example, the crime of falsifying documents or falsifying official documents -- many Serbian citizens have been charged with this crime, it has been said that they forged military books issued by the competent authorities in Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska. When these military papers take them to our military departments today, the military departments file criminal charges against them and transfer hot potatoes to the hands of the judiciary, and in fact it's indecisive. These documents issued by the Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska Krajina are absolutely correct and are not forgeries. However, in the military section, you have officers, or officers who have not mostly smelled gunpowder, and in this way they transfer their work to others. The next problem I would like to mention is the problem of recognising military internships, which have just the citizens of the Serbian state who were born, lived, worked, and fought in the territory of Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska. That's also not the law that regulated it. No law has ever been regulated, or regulated by law, but the law has not been respected, and by this law those who do not respect the law have not been brought into a situation to apply the law. Article 100. Law establishing the basics of pension and disability insurance and Article 264(3). The Law on the Military of Yugoslavia says – to the participants of armed actions, as members of Republika Srpska, between 19 August 1990 and 5 August 1995, the time spent in a special dual-term internship, within the meaning of Article 100, is recognised. Retirement and invalidity insurance laws. Part of the documentation was captured by Ustashas in "Blash" and "Storms", when they literally rebuked the Republic of the Serbian Krajina and expelled everything that was Serbian from those spaces (of course, which they failed to kill). Part of the archive burned down, and part of Serbia's MUP seized and is unreachable to the authorities. The government of the Republika Srpska Krajina in persecution has, for a time, given a statement by two witnesses of war, given confirmations, i.e. opinions and views on the basis of which they recognized the military internship of persons who... Let me remind you, it's about five years of war, and it's bloody warfare. All of a sudden, there's probably a decree, because there's no document. It is probably an oral order – no longer recognised. A criminal procedure is being initiated against the people who file it. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as Serbia's state is treating its citizens, I'll show you on the next case. Bosnia and Herzegovina in its memos asks the Republika Srpska government in persecution to give evidence for certain citizens, here I have more than ten confirmations, whether they are participants in the war. With these certificates issued by the Republika Srpska government in the persecution of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina who participated in a war under the Republika Srpska Army, a dual-term wartime internship is recognised. So, Bosnia and Herzegovina recognises Republika Srpska's fighters from the Republika Srpska Army as a war effort, and the Republic of Serbia has not recognised it for them in the past few years! I think this is a disaster faced by members of the Republika Srpska Army and the Republika Srpska Army, simply an unresolved problem, as it is a five-year military internship, five years of training they do not have in their workbooks. This is amazing. That's why I thought that there should have been a minister of justice and a minister of the army here and that this matter was urgently put on the agenda, because, believe me, there are a lot of citizens who have been damaged in this way, loyal citizens who have been damaged in this way. I'll also say one more thing about the second amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37463	Five minutes and fifty seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The People's Messenger Velimir Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37464	I'm very sorry there's no one from the Department of Defense and Justice. This issue needs to be discussed very studioically. We've been listening here to some discussion filled with some false patriotism, now we're all talking about doing some good stuff, etc. I remember perfectly, when we were called as reservers, when we were at war, it was terrible to go to a battlefield like it was a werewolf. It was a terrible thing to show up at the Basket. We knew, whose child went down, that it was grief in the family, that it was waiting any minute for him to survive, that he would not survive and who would return, and who would not return, etc. A lot of people didn't come back. We now in peace, when there's no war, amnesty to mom and dad's sons who just don't have time to go to the army, have a lot of work to do, go somewhere in the world. We're all amnesty here. We amnesty some who took their time "Green Plan", spent billions of dollars from this country, borrowed it, and we amnested it and forgot it. We amnest some, and among them very close relatives of some high-ranking state officials, who committed major crimes here and fled out, and then came back and praised that they had finished colleges in London, America. People who kill a man in a car accident, get on a plane, get away until it gets old, then they come back and nothing. No one should mention it to them. It's not in their résumés. So I'm not going to count now, it turns out that I have something against the people of the ruling coalition all the time, but a lot of us amnesty, and... Don't let me tell you your name now, so you'll all turn a little red in the package. Don't make me tell you that. You want to look good, show some democracy. This country needs to be defended. It's a way, not to be in war, but the equipment, the preparedness, it prevents the enemies. Then he won't just come to take 15% of the territory or anything else, but he'll think big about whether he'll come to Serbia or not. You made military property a big business. The last thing is defense. I'm listening to the Secretary of Defense saying yesterday that we're leading the region by training in the military. What does that mean? Who's leading the defense? Do we have systems or will we continue to watch if someone, not God, does attack us, as NATO has attacked us, pray to God and watch, and they treat us in ways and we have nothing and how? In this country, the worst were those who were real fighters, real heroes, who fought aggression against our country, who protected the innocent population. You can't mention that now. This is where the greatest heroes are the ones who've been running around all kinds of foundations, and now they're at it, for God's sakes. The greatest heroes are, let's say, Kandićka, Biserko, they were in charge, they all commented, etc. My soul splits when I think of General Lazarevic, gentlemen, who is nothing to blame - he's a criminal. He led our children into war, defended, fought as hard as he could, obeyed someone's command. Many who then commanded and sat at the head and today some advisers are by various commands, and those unfortunate who went there and fought now have no bread to eat. It's a shame that these reserves, veterans of war, come in for days, strike to pay for some diaries, to pay for something, to be included in their work hours, or a lot of things. They're having protests scheduled and no one's gonna take them. They come and sleep in the streets. You solve that question once. When they set you up in Kursumlia in one campaign, you accepted there and paid everything, but after the others, nothing. In this country you have to know the rule - either everyone or nobody. So think about it fat. Don't just make big speeches, everything you do is good, and we just have to applaud – bravo, amnesty has come, you're free guys etc. This country should have a serious army. You said you were going to a paid military formation, which will be well paid, trained, etc. It's a shame that we get killed by a pilot who didn't have a run-in and a hundredth of what it takes to fly, and you let him fly, to show up at the rally. Then, for God's sake, bring someone on the outside to show some force, strength, etc. Whose is it? Is that ours? What about the military industry? Why does it permanently destroy itself? What about the military faces, the generals, who have now become poor, no apartment, no nothing, no pensions? They can't survive. So, worry about it a little bit. Don't just brag and tell big stories. Big stories are enough. Do something practical and show it to work. Don't tell us about the fight against corruption. Every morning when we rise up “the father of the nation ” come out and give us advice for that day. Here, this morning the man was talking. Last night, before bed the same thing, you keep us a vaquel about how we have to fight, how we have to establish order. Come in, people, who's defending you? Why don't you put everything in order? Why isn't order in place? Who's bothering you? Now you're telling us what you have to do, and you're the government. You won't be long. Tomorrow someone will call you because you didn't do it. Therefore, many things have not been resolved in this Serbia, many things have not been resolved and many problems are being solved from the outside. Outside, they tell you what to do and you do it, you listen to it. Some "g" class officials from the European Union come in, they tell us a lesson, they keep us there, they listen, they listen, they listen, and when you finally ask them about this European Union, they say, well, it will be delayed for a while. Come on, tell me when. Let your friends tell you. There were speeches in 2014, now 2017, and the last one was in 2018. Who's going to live to see it? That line keeps moving. Gentlemen of the government, be very practical and work. Serbia has no time to wait. Don't do this... Here I am, watching, the Ministers of the Domons, all going to Arangelovac, shame; watching yesterday, sitting there and Dinkic, and Rasim Ljajic and these docks; everyone sitting there, sitting there, can't be passed, as I travel almost every day to Cačka, closed traffic and citizens can't function normally. Why? Now you're coming to the Aryan. We'll have trouble there, too. Minister, sit down, work and solve problems. Imagine Ljajic finished everything in Sandzak. He solved everything in Serbia; man didn't come out of Negotina, and now here he is in Arangelovac. He wants Shumadi to learn what democracy is and how to do, open firms, etc. You've ruined these companies, not me. You buried it all in the Aryans. There's nothing there. Now you remembered you're doing the Old Building, doing all this stuff you're doing. I need you to solve one problem right now. You can't make a deal for Gazela. Save her, she'd be a mess if she fell into the river. Save that Pancheva Bridge. The rotten fence, here, this morning our man flew, with a small vehicle, a passenger, flew and fell down. It's all rotten, it's gone. Therefore, solve these tiny problems. Don't solve any major national problems now. Now the whole nation trembles whether the boss will go to Kranj's Hill. He cannot leave because he said he should not be there if Albanians from Kosovo come because Kosovo is part of Serbia, according to the Resolution. Behold, now he has promised, and they are pressuring him; when thou hast promised, come. And now he will, and he won't, and he's waiting for the people to ask him a little bit and say that he had to be under public pressure. Therefore, you have many problems that you need to solve seriously and work on. Don't let the army do these vests. This is a mess, this Iraq business, the ruckus. The generals are coming to us from the opposition to complain. Now you've been working, and how much is that vest from the imports, and how much is it charged here, etc. We're sick of reading it. You've removed some military facility that's very important for flight control. Who built that gas station and you moved the facility? What do you do, people? This is a disaster. When I get all that and I look at what some of our very important state officials are doing, of which this people expect a lot, simply to make a man blush, he's ashamed to see it. If you're interested, I can multiply it so I can share it with everyone, it's hard to read, to see how these purchases go, what they do. Now we want to make this country so we don't even need an army. The boys in the hospitals serve, become nurses, midwives, what don't they all do there; by the libraries of a clean book. Why are we ashamed to have soldiers? When I pass by the barracks in the city where I live, sorrows fall apart. It's falling apart, it's falling apart, it's falling apart, it's leaking water everywhere, it's spraying pipes, it's installing. It's an extremely large property. To see what an ex-unit that's abandoned looks like, what that equipment is in the nettles, etc. I'd take those that you amnesty to take care of for a few days, put it in order. There's no point in standing up like that and being in that condition. It's a reflection of the situation in the military. Imagine, one barracks, bearing the name of some people like Tanask Rajic, in the phase of the break-up. In every city, that's the way it is. So let us do something together for this army, not to boast – we will amnesty. It's a motive that no one goes when you call him. No one will respond, they won't respect. The generals used to respect each other, when the general entered, when the officer entered, when the major, the colonel, the lieutenant, the pie. Now it's nothing. Now it's a poor thing. Only these guys stick to those academys until they get out. When they come out and see where they go, they'll be disappointed and watched to get away as soon as possible. A lot of pilots are leaving. Do you know what it was to train and prepare a military pilot, have it, and now it's an accident one? So there's a lot to be done. Do you know who's never been amnested? The poor, the children of the village. They were ashamed to run from the army, shame through the village. His grandfather was a soldier, his great-grandfather's son, and now he's going to run, to be chased by military police in the village. He enlisted and went, and Mom and Dad's boys from the Fae of Dedin, from the Shadows, of course, went a little bit to Cyprus, a little bit to London, anywhere in the world. Now we're going to amnesty them, and that poor poor girl who served it honestly is back, sitting still, waiting for work and doesn't know where to go and what to do. Therefore, the poor paid the price, the most honest ones, the most honest ones, because they don't need amnesty, no one has ever amnested them for anything, they've always respected this country. And respecting the state also means responding to a military call, as well as a subpoena, and showing up whenever a state or state institutions call. Therefore, do not boast too much of this. This is gonna be done, but this isn't much of a compliment. Here, you see, we in the opposition didn't want to comment, but you've been living today, you've started talking about doing a great job, and I'm telling you -- shut up, cover your ears, and let this go as it goes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37465	The time at your disposal as president of the parliamentary group has been used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37466	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, how serious this topic is that the government has also informed that its authorised representative will be someone else in relation to Minister Mrs Malovic. But that's not a problem, we're going to be talking about what we've been preparing for. We tried the best possible legal and theoretical way, and also on the basis of the Criminal Code, to see what amnesty says. In the final word, we're going to talk a little bit about pardon; maybe that's how you wanted to solve the problem in general, but we don't agree to it, we could solve it. The amnesty story isn't an easy story at all, but not because we in the SRS can't call the right values and the right categories what they are. For us, deserter will remain a deserter and we will always be grateful to loyal citizens of Serbia, regardless of their nationality, we do not have that dilemma. But there's something else that might have made you a little angry, that my colleagues, to tell you how it used to look, told some stories of life. They're not easy because of their families, and that's why it's not easy and easy. It is this dimension of the gravity of this bill, but also of your lack of understanding of the seriousness of the situation. I must say, whoever disagreed with me, and above all I think of those who support this government, that the Serbian Army, with all your stories about how you want a modern, professionalised army, an army that will be reformed, was not in a worse position. Here, for example, retired General Arsenovic isn't here, probably can't listen to these stories... But let's put that aside. There's another problem. Mr. Milivojevic tells great stories about who we're going to fight. We never want to fight anyone, but we have to be ready. Mr. Milivojevic and his party president can't guarantee anyone that when young people finish college, they'll get a job, let alone guarantee that no one will attack us. We want our army to be modern and modern only in case we need to defend ourselves. But you don't want to. You accept as one original story, as a good story for the man you ask – and what if the president of Serbia does not come to Kranj Hill? He says you weren't. What if he comes? Well, then you were. There are certain conditions under which the state of Serbia could appear there. Those conditions are not ready and will not meet them. Then your friend Jelko Kacin tells you – there we will be more informal, there we are, drinking coffee and, to make a joke, it can be without ties. They're your friends. It's your serious defense of the state. For us from the Serbian Radical Party, dealing with politics is primarily about maintaining the territorial integrity and sovereignty of your country. This is what the President of the Republic and the Government must, before any other question, take care of. Are you thinking about it? Here's proof that you're not thinking about it. Since 2000, Serbia's Army has been rapidly collapsing, as an institution that enjoyed great trust with Serbian citizens. Many roads, many bridges, many miles and railways were built by the military. Maybe it's an expensive building today, and we're not even gonna do it. When I was in the army, there were times -- "go digging and burying." For what? ‘This is the way to do it’. That's what they said. We want it to change. We want every one of us who is medically capable to be minimally qualified to be able to, if ever, and between me and you, I have to say, God forbid, needy, that we can defend our country. I guess that's what every country in the world does. I guess there's nothing more normal than that. You don't want to do that either. Some say there are very few of us. Let's think about something different. Let's not train any further. Seems to me, if some of them acted like you were saying it, there wouldn't be as many of us as there are today. When we talk about the need to serve the army, to get a minimum training, I'm not an expert in that area, so let me say how much time it takes. It used to be three years, then two, then fifteen months, then twelve, now we have to go to that optimum. It used to be more slowly learned, it's going faster today, it's probably a period that it takes for someone to be minimally trained much shorter than it was before. When Mr Krasic spoke, in his own way, of the need to avoid this law, I must tell you that someone did not believe that the Serbian Army was collapsing. The class of soldiers who were scheduled to leave on December 4th left at the end of January, and it counts as having been since December of the month. You insist that whoever wishes will be able to go willingly. No, one day you will say, "There is no need." If now, by law of military service, you cut it below all limits, what happens when it's on a voluntary basis? You will say, "No, we do not need you." You don't defend yourself like that, you don't like the state that way. When someone says "I would love for a Serb to go into soldiers", our wish is that both a Serb and a Hungarian, and a Bunjevac, and a Czech, and a Slovak and all those living in Serbia would be happy to respond to their country's army. It is not only the Serb army, but all those who have our citizenship and want and should serve; the obligation of all those who live here is to protect and love their country and that, if necessary, I say once again, do not let God need it, defend it. You're not capable of doing that. Someone said it wasn't just those 5,000 people who didn't respond to military service. I agree, they seem to be the least of their faults. It's 5,000 people since 2006, but it's not a closed process. That's more what my colleague Krasic was talking about. They can all come back under the Penal Code for avoiding military obligations. You've spent a lot of time in the debate in principle explaining that it's only those who, because of schooling, sports or something else, were not in a position to serve a military term, because it would take them a year or six months, and Article 399. The criminal code also mentions some other persons, which are covered by amnesty. Was that the goal? Even those who, on a proposal from another, hurt others in order to avoid military service are released. It's not true that you want 5,000 people back. It is likely that a number of people who have not served military obligations are in Serbia. I have said more than once, not only do people leave Serbia to avoid military service, but also because when they graduate from college or train for an occupation they can't find an adequate job with us. I want to believe the story that counterpart Zika Gojkovic discussed in principle, that in the 1990s, when the war began, there were two father's sons with him. Well, they're all dad's sons, but I understand they're persons with special powers because of what their parents do, so they were transferred, or from that dangerous location went to someone else. That's what it's gonna be, and it's gonna be forever. We now have a situation where a man is the Deputy Prime Minister and his son is the deputy mayor. Is that nepotism? Well, it is, but we're not talking about it. That's what's always gonna happen. These are individual cases, and it shouldn't be the subject and subject of our profession, but much more serious things that you don't want to talk about, and you're not ready to talk about. The topic on the agenda today is much more serious than the Government of the Republic of Serbia shows, rather than you show, dear fellow MPs who support the government, and you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37467	Eight minutes used by a time-authorized representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? If not, MP Mirko Munjic has submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37468	This is about an amendment to Article 4. A bill of amnesty. With this amendment, I asked for the words "first-degree court", which were used in this Article 4, to be deleted. I'm just going to take a brief look at the government's explanation for not accepting this amendment, which comes down to about two things. First, the government, in its argument, says that the court that judges in the first degree is in charge of a solution to amnesty (of course, no one here disputes, this is not the subject of this amendment), and secondly, that there is no indulging in the supremacy since the first-degree court brings a solution to amnesty. However, what the government did not do in its explanation is that it did not refer to the explanation that we gave in our amendment. In fact, we have explained our amendment by giving an amnesty to many of the appeals already lead or are completed in the second instance. So there are many procedures that are already being conducted at this point or that are already being completed in a procedure that is not first-degree, normally, therefore, in an appeal second-degree procedure. Indeed, it is inappropriate, according to positive legal rules and in court practice, that the judgments of the second-degree court also annul the lower judicial authority, in this case the first-degree court. However, this inconsistencies and incompetence in conduct are indeed one feature that, in some ways, follows the Ministry of Justice as some evil thing. When we talked about the election and re-election of the judges, we said that this choice, that re-election of judges would actually represent a kind of lustration of judges, that it would be only one way to remove from the courts those who do not think the same way as those who choose them, that it would be a way to clear the courts of those, conditionally speaking, unsuitable. That's when we said that many good judges, many good prosecutors would be forced to go to law school because of such a choice, because of such lustration, or to find incarceration elsewhere. This amendment, and at all the problem that is on the agenda today, would be related to this particular problem, therefore, to the election and re-election of judges, finding in this kind of buckle, a sort of similarity and coincidence with what has certainly happened that many judges and many prosecutors who are absolutely unfit to perform judicial or prosecutorial duties have found their place in the judiciary, in the prosecution after this election, or re-election. What happens if one former judge participates in the amnesty procedure, and now the prosecutor, whom I mentioned in the process of electing judges, i.e. prosecutors, Mrs Jelena Curcic, the lady who is in another procedure, while the president of the electoral commission in the local self-government in the municipality of Luciana has done one anomaly that has (Mr. Minister, this will be very interesting for you, as it relates to your ministry) in some countries also called a criminal act, in some countries which are absolutely legally arranged. I'm not saying that our country isn't. We all strive for it to be so, but surely you, like the others in this business, will show a good will to do so. The lady in question is the president of the electoral commission...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37469	People's MP, please listen to me, with a reminder of the need to talk about what's on the agenda and with a proven common ground that the argument on the subject, which is amendments to the Amnesty Law bill, is really broad. But what you've been saying for the second minute absolutely cannot be brought into contact with the amendment or with the Amnesty Act, and I ask you to return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37470	Here, I'm coming back, just, if you'll excuse me, Madam Chairman, I'll tell you what this has to do with what I'm saying with...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37471	National MP, I have warned you that the qualification of the work of the elected judge or prosecutor cannot have any connection with the amendment or the bill of amnesty, and I ask you to continue to use your parliamentary group to comply with Article 103. Rules of Procedure and you're talking about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37472	I ask the question, what happens if one such judge, or in this case a public prosecutor, is that the Amnesty Law provides for a member that a public prosecutor may participate in the proceedings... I ask the question, what happens if such an amnesty procedure is attended by one such person who has made a choice...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37473	People's MP, I'm warning you a second time. You are disqualifying the person selected for public function by a decision. (Momir Markovic, from the scene: This means that he was chosen by mistake. ) I ask MP Momir Markovic not to throw it away. I warned you already not to, because it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I have to repeat that it is fully evidenceable that this topic is equal to the representatives of all parliamentary groups, and in accordance with Article 27, it is considered a subject that requires an extremely broad argument, but what you are doing is not allowed. Please, for the second time, I would like to warn you: either continue, using the time of the parliamentary group, to speak on the subject of the agenda, or the two of us will be forced to take advantage of, unfortunately, the measures of punishing MPs who do not want to respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37474	Just one thing, Madam Chairman, is not clear to me – is that really not what you want me to let express my political attitude towards one problem?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37475	National MP, you are under obligation to comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37476	I respect that.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37477	You are obliged to respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This session has been going on, here, for the second hour. We're all here in the O.R. With insight into the stenogram, you can see that no MP has been warned or reminded to speak in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, or Article 103. With the contents of your speech, you forced me to remind you of that. Please, for the last time, I am warning you, or speaking in accordance with article 103, using your time or asking you once more not to force me to use the measures I am obliged to use if the MP explicitly intends to violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37478	I absolutely believe that in my speech so far, I have not broken the Rules of Procedure for any moment. You can see that from my stenogram and my speech so far. I was simply trying to find one buckle, one connection between the theme...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37479	People's MP, I've warned you twice. This is now a disrespect for the reputation of the National Assembly. You have been warned twice not to do what you obviously intend to do, which is to violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and not to force me to express the measure of caution. Please don't really do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37480	It's obvious, Madam Chairman, that we didn't understand each other or that you're misreading what I'm saying. I am discussing the amendment to Article 4. A bill of amnesty. That article 4 says... I simply asked for the "first-degree court" to be deleted from Article 4, so I said that it was possible, in so far, that in the proceedings led by appeals, a lower court, in this case the first-degree court, would be the one to annul the decision of the higher court. Then I wanted to and tried to find a connection between what I'm saying and another situation, unfortunately, you wouldn't let me and you wouldn't let me. I know that the citizens of Serbia and this little word that I said know very well what I wanted to say, although I failed to finish my thought, but my goal is to be understood by the citizens of Serbia in this case, not by you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37481	Eight minutes has been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? MP Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37482	Madam Chairman, I'm reporting from article 27. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. The obligation of each MP is to study the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly better and to imitate his conduct in this Rules of Procedure. My deep conviction is that you are one of the MPs who knows the rules of procedure best. I wanted to ask you, and by following very patiently and carefully your controversy with the MP, Mr. Munjic, do you want to guarantee that all the judges and prosecutors who have been elected do not have any mistakes or will not make it in the period of judicial or prosecutorial office? The talk that my colleague Munjic was now talking about, and it was justified and with a lot of details, and at the time when the choice of judges and prosecutors was made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37483	People's MP, no harm done to article 27. I can only direct you to the reading, and I believe there is no need, since we have closely followed my attempt to apply Article 27 and Article 103 together. They repeat that you can read in a stenogram of discussion of all MPs and compare whether or not they are in accordance with Article 103 and at which point MP Mirko Munjic forced me to apply Article 27 with the contents of his speech and remind him to return to the agenda, because the argument absolutely crossed the level that can be brought into contact with the agenda point. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37484	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to analyse the consequences of the application of this amnesty law to the citizens of Serbia. In Article 1, the first sentence states – an amnesty is given to persons who, from 18 April 2006 until the date of entry into force of this law, have committed, i.e. suspected of committing crimes, and says in turn: the avoidance of a military obligation under Article 394, says – who without a reasonable reason does not respond to the call for the execution of an recruiting obligation, military obligation, etc.; who is hiding to avoid the obligations of the first member; who leaves the country and stays abroad to avoid the execution of the military obligation; who calls or encourages more persons to perform the work (so, whoever encourages others not to go to the military); avoiding lists and reviewing, non-execution of material obligations, avoiding military service by incapacitation, arbitrary absence and escape from the Serbia-Montenegro Army. Something's getting more trouble here than you can see. It is not possible to amnesty and escape from the army without establishing all the facts and consequences that have arisen from the escape. A soldier may have fled the guard and endangered the safety of the other soldiers whose safety was to be protected. It is possible that he took away from the country some military secrets that were available to him and carried them to the country he fled to. It's possible that by leaving, by fleeing the army after he threatened the safety of the fighting funds. It's possible that he stole the weapon, so he endangered the safety of the civilians who were there, who were on his escape route. It is possible that he has caused much more danger by running away, and you amnesty only to flee the army. What about the rest of the pieces? Those other parts are also in chapter 35, Art. 397, 398, 399, 395, etc. There's one more thing my amendment's about, so I'd like to talk to you about. What about the people you arrested a year ago? He was sentenced to 13 months, he served twelve months; his colleague who did the same, didn't respond to the call or fled the army, didn't get caught by this moment; what about the eleven months you managed to catch? Will the state make it up to him for 11 months? Of course not. To be clear, the SRS believes that the amnesty for these acts should not be introduced in the state of Serbia, because we believe that the defence of the country, regardless of the statements of some MPs from the ruling coalition, is a sacred duty and that we all have to comply with it. What will happen to those who will commit a crime the day after this law enters into force? Will they have amnesty? Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, on an Impa officer's saber (when Serbia was a state with industry and while Impa was an enterprise that could meet all world standards, until you cleaned everything up in your burazeric privatisation, along the way, and Impu) writes – don't take me out for no reason, don't bring me back without honor. And you've put honor and reason for pulling out the sabers long ago in the seal. It's hard for the state of Serbia if we ever need to defend it. One plane we still have capable of flying will hardly be able to defend the territory of the Serbian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37485	Since the time of the parliamentary group, two minutes and forty-five seconds have been used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37486	We suggest that Amendment 6 be deleted. Article 6 is read as follows: ‘Decision from art. 4 and 5 of this law may also be brought at the request of the accused or convicted person or person who, for the benefit of the accused, may declare an appeal." Amnesty is a political category. By passing an amnesty law, it can be complete or partial. This is about total amnesty. Then there's no need to leave the possibility of a request being filed by another person. We do not agree with such a bill, but by submitting amendments to Article 6 we suggest that the billmaker did not use either legally valid arguments, nor legal theory, nor the Criminal Code in the way that we adopted it here. This indicates how superficially this law has been adopted. Throughout history, very often such laws have been passed because of the politicality of a certain number of persons. I'm not saying it, and I don't think this time is a situation, but it's certainly about people who ideologically support those who are willing to pass a law like this now, without more detailed analysis being done. Of the 5,000 people who figure here as those to be dealt with and applied to this law, there are likely to be special and specific cases, which, otherwise, by applying the applicable laws of the Serbian state, could be freed of criminal responsibilities. The call for two laws, the Law on military, labour and material obligations and the Civil Service Act, to be passed in October of the month, resulting in the adoption of such a law absolutely no basis. These two laws, the Law on Military, Working and Material Obligations and the Civil Service Act, regulate still the obligation to serve the military, whether with weapons or with civilians, and provide for certain standards of conduct, resulting in no direct or indirect connection with these laws and the need to pass one of these laws. I know the debate on this law may not be very interesting, except for those directly concerned. The largest number of people have made an honorable payment of their obligation and have been loyal to their country and are now concerned with other concerns. They worry about how to hire, how to educate children, how to treat them, and this has ended and in the future will behave the way the state regulates. Let me tell you, on Tuesday, traveling through the Valjev village of Pričević, I connected a young man; he is 21 years old and says he wants to join the army. I say, "Is he in civil?" He says, no matter what, in the right army. There are still such, and as long as there are such, it is a confirmation of the Serbian Radical Party's stance that it is absolutely the right way that we point out to you and we want it through the amendments, whether we convince you or not... The story of this is hard; amnesty 5,000 people, but put an end to it once. Let's see what your relationship to the defense of the state is. This is much more important to us than whether you will pass laws that will have 5,000 people amnesty. You are thus making a big divide and difference between the citizens of Serbia. Here, I think, are false democracy and false human rights. If some were obliged to do something and not amnesty, others were also obliged to do something and be amnesty, which democracy, what equality are you even talking about? It's just kind of like that. Basically, you're in favour of something else, of your positions, of winning an extraordinary local election, regardless of the citizens of those places where you win, the way you win, it's no easier or better, but you're still in power. We don't think that's gonna take long. The citizens will show first, perhaps, in Arangelovac. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37487	Since the time of the authorised representative, they've been used for three minutes. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37488	Thank you. The amendment to Article 7 requires that this Article 7 be made. The amnesty bill is deleted. I will look again at the argument given by the Government and in which in some ways the Government tried to explain why it did not accept this amendment of mine. In fact, the government has explained that it is necessary to prescribe a certain remedy in the event that a solution on the application of amnesty for an act that is not subject to amnesty has been made. So this is one argument that justifies itself in everything that is happening in the Justice Department – a legal remedy is prescribed in case a solution on the application of amnesty for an act that is not subject to amnesty is made! Who will make such a solution for another crime when taxing is listed those crimes for which amnesty can be expressed? What's going on here? Whoever prescribed this already allows for the possibility of bringing solutions to other parts, for which amnesty cannot even be applied. So I'm saying that this is precisely the logical consequence of the way the re-election of the judges was done. There are many life stories that speak for or against amnesty. Those brought forward by my colleagues in the course of this debate are indeed rightly depicting the position of the Serbian Radical Party when it comes to the institutions of amnesty. These stories are in favor of our position and let me tell you a little story about this subject. So, I'm from a family that was reported in 1999 that a soldier who was serving a military term, as an active military person, in the wider Đakovica area, was killed. After all that was happening in the family after this news, a new announcement came, to our joy, and unfortunately one other family from Alexinac, who was also named – the announcement came that our child had not died, but that another child, who had just been named the same. You know, I'm not saying this to get a point out of this, or anything else, but only in favor of the fact that this is a serious issue and how right those who say that this topic had to be approached in a much more serious, more fundamental way, that today's debate was supposed to be attended by someone from the Serbia Army, that in today's debate there should have been not only data on how many of these young people have avoided serving a military deadline (one of the crimes that are the subject of this Amnesty Law), but what are the reasons why it was done; it took a comprehensive analysis of all these problems related to the amnesty procedure proposed under this law. So, the Serbian Radical Party has, by now, made a clear position on this issue, and I think it's quite right and that it speaks completely of this problem. I'm saying, it's a shame they're not here as representatives of the Justice Department and someone from the Serbian Army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37489	Three minutes and twenty seconds used by the MP's group. The word is by MP Vlatko Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37490	Thank you. We believe that it is necessary for the law on amnesty to contain a provision on the two-stage decision-making, i.e. the public prosecutor's right in one case, and in the other case of the convicted, or the defendant, to appeal the first-degree court's decision. So, not only is this a democratic criminal-legal principle, the right to two degrees, this provision simply has to exist, because it is hypothetically possible that the court of the first degree rejects the request of a convicted person, or the accused. In that case, what would happen if we didn't have a provision like this? That would be the final decision. Therefore, we believe that Article 7, its existence in this law is justified and celery and that the amendment requesting the erasure of this article should not be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37491	It was used one minute from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Does anyone else want a word? The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37492	Amnesty means easing punishment or replacing some minor punishment, and that would be a partial amnesty. Here we have complete amnesty or aggravation that applies, you are in Article 1(2). Proposals of the law specify, on the release from prosecution, the release from execution and the erasure of convictions. If you want to apply this and if you have a congregation majority for it, then it is the provision of Article 8. The bill is completely unnecessary, because you have defined certain things, as well as the nature of this amnesty. Besides, amnesty is the will of a state authority, not a judicial authority, and it's binding. Amnesty and pardon differ from easing punishment, from some other extenuating circumstances, because these are all measures or actions taken by competent courts, and here we have a situation that the state authority, based on the constitutional possibility of acting so... There is, based on Article 99. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the possibility of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia passing a law on amnesty. We are in favour of the most representative body sometimes taking advantage of this possibility, because the law-making procedure itself can be complex and complicated, and social needs sometimes impose, because of the changed circumstances, reduced social dangers, that some acts are no longer as dangerous for the state and its organs as they were at the time of their execution or at the time of the process, and then access to amnesty. I'm sure we're not for this kind of crime. Look, you tried to replace the thesis a little bit. You haven't been able to fool us. You may be citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but I don't think you're citizens of them either. Will you be grateful to those for whom you have proposed such a law, because you consider that this is the critical mass that should leave you still in power, that is your assessment. You see, whoever calls or encourages more persons to perform the part of the Article 1 (Article 399). The criminal code, which speaks of temporary abandonment or departure from the RS Army, will be punished by imprisonment from one to eight years, even if it is works referred to in Articles 2 and 3 of this Article, from two to twelve years old. This is not about military bonds at all, but about those who, knowingly, willingly, imagined to encourage such a relationship with the Army of the Republic of Serbia, and these are about this law on amnesty. Is that what you thought? Say it now. We are no longer sure how certain ministers have acted as people who ran these ministries since 2000. Do I need to remind you who the military minister has been since 2000 to this day? Of course, neither you nor the public are needed, but they were also today's President of the Republic of Serbia and Mr Sutanovac. It's not just this country, it's not the army that's good and how it's supposed to be. Consider once again whether these amendments submitted by the Serbian Radical Party should be accepted or not. We are deeply convinced, and we believe that we have the support of the largest number of Serbian citizens, that these amendments are fully justified and that in the voting day we should vote to accept these amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37493	They've been used two minutes since the authorized representative's time. Anyone else want a word? MP Vlatko Ratkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37494	A number of amendments by the SRS Parliamentary Group are headed towards legal minimalism, i.e. leaving out those standards that are necessary in such laws. Article 8 refers to the situation where a solution to the application of amnesty to persons covered by this law, which at the time of the adoption of the solution, is found in custody or in the maintenance of the sentence. Is there anything more logical than to norm that the court in that same solution determines that they are released immediately? In addition, the solution referred to in Article 8 is coherent with the Criminal Penal Code, which stipulates that, in the event that a convicted person is fired from an office under the Amnesty Act, the institution in which that person is required to fire him no later than 24 hours after receiving the Amnesty Decision, if the Amnesty Act is not otherwise specified. We consider it a request to delete Article 8, as well as an article. 6 and 7 by the SRS completely unfounded because we would have an unspeakable law, which in practice would lead to many problems. My colleague Peric spoke widely. He was talking about some kind of support for the citizens. What is the support of citizens with SRS attitudes, you can really see, I must say, in the elections held over the last year in local self-government. What difference does it make, that's what you're talking about, not me. I'm just commenting on your statements.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37495	It was used one minute and forty-five seconds from the time of the authorised representative. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37496	The coherence that my colleague Vlatko is talking about is seen from bringing into contact with the two laws that were passed in October 2009, which is the Law on military, labour and material obligations and the Civil Service Act; in the explanation, there are options for you to have the possibility of adopting such a law in these two laws. If the Criminal Code had been changed and these crimes no longer stand as such, it would have been something else. This is where you got into the wrong stuff. You're referring to the wrong legal regulations, and I'm not going to argue with you whether or not an article should be deleted. 7, 8 or 9. We believe every member should be deleted. This is not an essential function of the SRS when we submit certain amendments to delete individual members in certain laws; it is only where it is not worth any other way to propose amendments and amend and correct the law. This law cannot be corrected in any other way, except that it is not accepted or accepted by the amendment of the SRS and that such a law is not passed at all. I will tell you how and how – to all those who have an objective reason to be excluded from the execution of these crimes, you could have solved their problem in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37497	Anyone else want a word? The 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37498	Ladies and gentlemen, when it suits you, you say that we want to minimize some of the provisions of your bill, and on the other hand, when we want to speed up some of the laws you're passing here in the Assembly, you say it's unnecessary and unnecessary. With this amendment, we asked for Article 9(2) to be deleted. In fact, here you are in the position of Article 9(2), in fact, showing doubts about those authorities, or persons in those bodies, who are under official duty to take certain actions and actions. This is about those persons who, under official duty, are erasing from the criminal record. Therefore, erasing the criminal record is a legal obligation, which is imposed by an imperative norm and an official who works in the authority responsible for this is under the obligation to strictly comply with that standard. Disrespecting one such norm is a criminal offence, which is punishable under another law. So, just because disrespect for this provision is a criminal act punishable under another law is one of the basic reasons why we have sought to delete Article 2 in this article. In fact, here you are in fact expressing doubts about those persons in those bodies who do certain business under official duty. You have not expressed any doubt; you have not expressed any doubt in some persons, for example, at the Nis Commercial Court, who had two records regarding some public procurements. In one record, one person was selected as an offerer, and another person was selected. However, there is doubt about the state body, when it comes to a person in a state body and where that person is to carry out an action to which he is bound by the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37499	One minute and fourteen seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The SRS parliamentary group has another minute and 50 seconds at its disposal, and has a mandated representative for two minutes. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic, who has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37500	Thank you. I filed an amendment to delete article 10. We're about to delete article 10 and this whole bill, because we think it's absolutely unnecessary. We get into a situation where every three or four years we pass some law on amnesty. It's just amazing. I really am for amnesty, but as generous as we are, the state has to consider who it's all about and for what it's amnesty for. There was controversy today, there were replicas. I'm a little confused about what I've heard here. Policy is also mentioned, some policy from a distant past, from a close past, etc. From what I understand, the intensity of this law, and what we are proposing, is that these laws are not about politics, but about the legal mechanism that has been established, therefore, that this law applies at a certain point. Then we come to a situation if someone accepts it at a certain time, whether it responds to that law or not, whether someone respects their labour, military and material obligations or not? What kind of message are we sending people? What does that mean, someone used to invite some people through the law to respond to a certain obligation, and today someone releases them? But there is again a law that calls for military, labour, material obligations, and you are currently the ones who are in power to enforce such a law. You're calling someone. What does that mean? If tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, someone doesn't respond to military, labor and material obligations, that they will be prosecuted? Or are you going to reuse this mechanism, that in three, four, five or ten years some similar to you have passed a new law on amnesty? This is about understanding responsibility to certain functions you perform, not to say behave, here in the state of Serbia. What kind of messages are these? How can we look into the eyes of those people who have been out there and existed in a terrible place, and today some who have strayed in the white world are being amnesty? Then some who have amnesty will be amnesty today from three or four years ago. It's really incomprehensible. Let's get serious and not play with human destiny. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37501	Thirty seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37502	Respected Serbian citizens, the SRS remains firmly in the position of the Serbian Radical Party's ideology. We stand for the equality of all citizens. We will always tell you the truth, no matter how it was in the previous vote, how it will be in the future. That's the answer, colleague Vlatko Ratkovic, and to you. We'll always tell the truth. We're not gonna talk about hiring 200,000 people and firing 300,000 people. We will not say that we will share free shares worth 1,000 euros, and perhaps the real value will later be 20 euros. It doesn't matter at all. At the end of our amendment presentation, I just want to let you know that you could... Because, in principle, we are dealing with politics, we have a high degree of responsibility for the citizens of Serbia who voted for us and for those who should vote in the next period. This problem, if you wanted, you could have solved it with the pardon institute and it could have been done by your President of the Republic, your party president, who is also the president of Serbia. The difference between amnesty and pardon is that pardoning is called a number of people. We also propose a date – the date could be February 24th, each year. On February 20th, a large defiant Serb went to The Hague voluntarily to show that he is not defending himself, that he is not defending a party whose president he is, to expose what the UN tribunal has accused Serbs and Serbia of, that it is not a criminal enterprise, or that it is a criminal enterprise, but carried out by other people, who are not tried there, and we know for certain that they did so. It's the United States, it's the Vatican, it's some member states of the European Union. That date, February 24th, you could have used it as the day you'd pardon those who could really find places within that institute. I'm sure there are a number of people in Serbia who don't like uniforms, even if it's a woodsman or a postman. For what? Because they have negative experience from JNA, but not because of what is prescribed in the laws, but because of irresponsible behavior, perhaps because of those elders. The Serbian Radical Party is not for such generals and elders who will go to a certain motel on a specific road route (I will not say now that I would not advertise it) and hand over official state documentation to some who should in no way have it in their possession. He does not want such generals in the Army of the Republic of Serbia who will not always look at and protect the interests of their country in the first place, and everything else comes after that. If we have succeeded in these intentions, if you understand us, I thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37503	It was used one minute from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Before I set a break, on the basis of article 85, I am informing the National Assembly that we will be working today and after 1800 hours, we will continue to discuss the point that at that moment is the subject of our work. Now I'm setting a break, and we'll continue our work at 15.00 hours. [[After break – 15:00]] Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. We move to the 14th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on State Procedure and CATASTRE (single) Notice on Calls for Sessions: I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the European Union and the European Union are bound by the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union. National Assembly's Rules of Procedure, National Assembly President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic called for the session to be attended by Nenad Tesla, the director of the Republic Geodetic Institute and Kosta Mirkovic, the assistant director of the Republic Geodetic Office. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Dragan Stevanovic, Sreto Peric, Mirko Munjic, Cedomir Jovanovic, Judita Popovic, Zoran Ostojić, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from the Verse of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37505	Ladies and gentlemen, when we discussed in principle the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on State Time and Cataster, I spoke, as well as other fellow MPs from the SRS, the position of our party on the amendments and additions to this law and, of course, when it comes to amendments and additions to some law, it is inevitable to speak of a basic law whose amendments and additions are on the agenda. Unfortunately, I did not stay after that debate, when Mr. Dulic got involved in the debate. Of course, Mr. Dulic, I'm sure you didn't even think that in any way I wanted to boycott you, on the contrary, you're a minister with parliamentary experience and you can respect the MP and we certainly appreciate it. I left then because that day was our president's trial in The Hague, so I went to follow it. I would like to continue this debate in a certain way today, because even when we discussed in principle the Law on State Prime Minister and Cataster, as well as the Law on Planning and Construction, I think we had a dialogue that was really appropriate for Parliament. I hope it will be now, even though it is only a few amendments, but it certainly needs to be spoken of. Of course, whenever changes and amendments to a law are made on the agenda, we take advantage of the opportunity to express our disfavor over the fact that laws are often changed. In this case, we have drawn your attention that when the Law on State Prime Ministers and the Catastro MPs of the SRS were passed, some amendments were accepted, very few of them of course, but that the amendments that are currently under discussion, i.e. which have become an integral part of your proposal for amendments and additions to this law, were not accepted. Regardless of these criticisms, we will not be angry if we again have amendments and additions to this law on the agenda, because we think that if you once made a mistake, and today you are making a mistake by not accepting all amendments, it is better to reassess your professional service and re-change this law once again, but that in the final version it is a law that will be applicable and that will really make it better for the citizens of Serbia who are using state diameter and catastray services. You know that, Malten, not to say that there are no citizens, but there is no family in Serbia who has no need for services of state diameter and catastra. We have discussed in principle how important this segment is and when it comes to immovableity in Serbia, i.e. a list of immovableities, immovableity records, this is a problem that has existed in Serbia long ago. I'm not going to say it's about this period since you've been minister, but if you've taken this serious job and if you're willing, as you say in public, to really solve these problems, then you should, and then I told you, to listen to the opinion of the profession, not just in some kind of public debate. We have had experience in inviting people who are actually writers of the proposal to public debate, and before that drafts, laws, and then they convince how good the solution is exactly what is proposed. That's not good. We who sit here are people who deal with politics, and it is not controversial, but we are all in some profession, or at least most, we all know perfectly what the problems of Serbian citizens in each segment are, and so we think it would be good to hear from each other, to listen to each other, not just literally, but to accept some amendments. Why did I say we wouldn't mind having changes and additions to this law on the agenda again? Because, unfortunately, such a Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, as it is in force, does not allow MPs to intervene when they amend and supplement a law on the agenda and to a member to whom the government has not intervened. We don't think that's good, and we always said it wasn't good. That's why we're confident, if your intention is to finish this job, we're sure you'll have to change this law one more time. Please, when that happens, don't do what you've done now. The amendments and additions to this law have a total of 15 members. Of that, about nine members seem to me to be referring to a change in the time limit in the administrative procedure, when it comes to the cataster of immovableity. What happened? These two members that we have amendments that you have not accepted, these are Articles 5 and 7, you are literally... I don't know how you didn't see that when you saw our amendments. In fact, these two were accepted. You literally skipped, forgot. When you were making those changes, it was supposed to be like you were changing an article. 22, 129, 133, 134, to change the article 133 because it's really the same thing. Article 133 refers to the removal of the holder and registration of the property on the plot. This is where we intervened with the amendment, and we changed this number of years and this deadline. ‘At the request of the person’, that is, paragraph 1 where we intervened, ‘which is registered as the holder of the plot, within the meaning of this law, or his legal follower, the registration of the property rights on the plot for the benefit of that person shall be carried out, if three years have passed since the date of application of the catastrane of immovableity... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” We think there should be a five-year deadline here and you'll see, Mr. Minister and Mr. Director of the Republic Geodesy Institute, very quickly that we were right. So, this deadline had to be increased from three to five years and, of course, that the application for the registration of property rights was not submitted in that period on the basis of the registration document and in the 5th point, we said: "None of the solutions that allow or refuses to be entered can be declared a complaint within eight days of the date of delivery of the solution", that is your proposal, and we said that the deadline had to be 15 days. It is good that you have understood our reasons and it is good that the amendment is accepted, as it stands in the government's opinion, for the reasons set out in the explanation. I want, Mr. Minister, to take this opportunity, I hope you have some information because it's in a very close relationship with the Law of State and Catastrophe... It's past that legalisation deadline, and I'd like you to tell us how many objects that aren't in those earlier attempts are registered for legalisation, because you announced that about a week after the deadline, and that was March 11th of this year, you would have that information. Why are we interested? Because we think, we're afraid that all objects aren't registered for legalization. There's a problem here now, and it's about one of your statements, Mr. Dulic. The law on planning and construction is clear when it comes to the deadline. You claimed that the deadline would be respected. We advocate respecting not only that, but every deadline of the law and all that the law provides. The law is clear on what will happen to objects whose legalisation is not within the deadline. You, I think, ran a little bit when before that deadline expired you suggested that you would not actually respect the law, but that those objects that are not reported to be taxed by double tax. That shouldn't have been said before the 11 March deadline expired. You know, someone might say at that point: and so, I'm not going to be torn down, I don't care – he's going to keep coming, he's going to be building, he's going to be building, he's going to be building, he's going to be building. - and I'll pay my taxes, we'll see. This problem, I hope, will be resolved when this law is seriously applied. We know well that in Serbia, a large number of immovableities are not paid tax. It's not a problem for those people who don't pay taxes, they might eskicipate their legal obligation, that's, first of all, the problem of the state. You know, if every real estate in Serbia was paid a property tax, then it would be possible to expect that tax to be lower. But you're more likely to resort (not to you personally now, but to the government) to increase the tax, but to make an effort, it's not the responsibility of your ministry, that every citizen who has a certain immovableity pays a tax on that immovableity. There is a non-synchronised relationship between your ministry and the ministry whose jurisdiction is the Administration of Income. You do not have automatic application. For example, someone buys an object; that purchase contract must be brought to the Office of Revenue, to determine the tax, which is one-time; that tax is paid. That contract is not working, and it should go automatically in the processing of the data on which the property tax is paid. You've got a lot of holes in the law, and you've got a lot of holes in the law. That's why we've been paying attention, when it comes to this State Prime Minister and the Catastrophe Act. We give great meaning to this law. We give great importance to the Republic Geodetic Institute because it really is a serious, responsible and extensive job. We've been distracting you and you haven't done anything about it yet. We've turned your attention, not only in the debate, but we've also had amendments to this section regarding geodetic organizations. You haven't solved this problem even now through these changes, and we see in the media that there are major problems with some organizations that deal with these jobs, how many of them can do it, how much they can't do it, etc. You should have accepted all these amendments back then, so that today those people sitting next to you would be easier, that they would organize a job throughout Serbia, because neither will we have a list... What's been done, somewhere in the Catastres, somewhere in the land books, it hasn't been united yet, and it's been a long time since this law was applied. Unfortunately, even sublegal acts have not yet been done, and that is always the problem when the government proposes laws. I could never understand that if the government proposed laws to its assembly and, of course, counted on its parliamentary majority to support the government, that it would also support this law, that there would be no parallel work and sublegal acts, which, if any, would be adopted, only comply with this new text of the law and then the laws could be seriously applied. Unfortunately, that's not how it's done, and that's why we have problems with legalization. It's a big problem now. This 11th March has passed, applications for legalization have been filed. Now I can only imagine what she's like... For the last days have been spoken – only to submit a request, there is no need for documentation, and within some time the citizens will be informed when and in what way to supplement these demands. But no one can enter the legalization procedure unless there is, among other things, a geodetic recording of the facility. Now the question is, if it were to happen that the municipalities are really up-to-date and they're doing this quickly, will you from the Republic Geodesy Institute be able to meet all these requirements? What's going to happen, say, God forbid, that someone within 60 days who leaves a local self-government unit to complete his request doesn't get to finish this geodetic job? Does this mean that his facility will go to the building inspection and prepare to be destroyed? So these are all the problems that citizens face, Mr. Dulic. They've met by now, and they'll meet obviously, unfortunately, and in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37506	Seventeen minutes and twenty seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government has accepted this amendment, the Legislative Committee believes the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Messenger of the people is Mirko Munjic, and the Messenger of the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37507	I have submitted an amendment to Article 9 and I have requested that Article 9 be changed and that Article 148 paragraph 5 is replaced by the words “in the left time” in the words “in eight days”, and in paragraph 7 “8” is replaced by “15”. In Article 148(5), you provided for a term – within the time limit left. We felt that this was very imprecise and that it was necessary to correct it with an amendment, so we asked it to be within eight days. In fact, legal certainty implies, especially when it comes to legislative proposals, that certain situations should be foreseen as accurately as possible. This precision implies that whenever possible, and almost always possible, especially in this case, an exact time limit is set for the execution of certain actions or for certain actions. It's the easiest and best thing to do if it's timed. That is exactly what the first part of our amendment is all about, where we asked for that deadline to be within eight days. It's about the first part of my amendment. In Part Two, we asked that the seven-day deadline that you predicted be fifteen days. We thought this 15-day deadline was more appropriate. The proposal sets out three basic reasons for the adoption of amendments and additions to this law. The first, therefore, is to comply with other laws, the second is to remove the conflict of certain legal provisions and the third is to define deadlines for the conduct of the Geodesy Institute. So, you have foreseen the definition of deadlines as one of the priority tasks, that is, the reasons why this law is passed. Where so, it should be respected in the right way, therefore, not to use the terms ‘in the left-over period’, etc., to provide more clearly and precisely what time-limit it is. So nothing is understood, you have to determine exactly what time limit it is, that's the meaning of our amendment. There's one more thing to say about deadlines at all. We all know that deadlines are one of the most important legal categories, by system – first in time, stronger and right. When it comes to deadlines, both in this part and in the legalisation in general, which you are also referring to in the draft of this law, we believe that deadlines are very important and that there are two types of deadlines that will, in practice, lead to certain legal consequences. The first type of deadlines are those deadlines provided for the submission of documentation. As we know, that deadline, which was 11. 3. In 2010, when it comes to legalization, it passed. It is a deadline provided for in Article 194. The Law on Planning and Construction, which provides that if interested persons do not submit the necessary documentation within the deadline, will not be followed at their request, the request will be rejected. That's what they're called. Pre-exclusive deadlines and it is normal that these deadlines do not allow for vomiting in the previous state. When it comes to them, it's clear. However, last time I noted, and now I am saying that in fact another type of deadline may produce some other legal consequences, i.e. that some other kind of deadlines will be a problem in practice in some way, when it comes to this process of legalising illegally built objects that are under way. It is the procedure itself, the deadlines in the legalisation procedure, where, under the order of the managing authority, the procedure must take place within a specified time limit (e.g. 60 days) to provide certain documentation. There will be a situation that the party has submitted, for example, before that. A lawsuit for the fortification. It is normal for the managing authority to terminate the procedure until the previous issue is resolved, that is, until the ongoing litigation procedure is completed. I think that's the way it should be done, and that's the conclusion. This allows the party to postpone that redundancy by the end of the litigation process. However, as many unexpected things are happening in life, some unexpected situations will likely arise in these time frame situations that may be a little more complicated. Since legalisation is under way by the fact that the application procedure for legalisation has already been completed, it is likely that many situations will happen in practice that even the legislator could not foresee in this law, nor in the other laws that preceded this, because the law has overlooked to predict a mechanism which will be able to determine exactly who is preventing or deliberately obstructing the legalisation process. This will be a basic problem, you will see in practice, especially if the party that applied for legalisation is, for example, a party happens to be a party. She bought this land from her co-owners; it will happen that this parcel is not divided, that there are more co-owners. Some of these co-owners may not even be in Serbia, there are those who are abroad, so there is a whole little confusion. So the legalization process, despite the best intentions you might have had, will indeed take one course that no one wanted, will be very long and difficult for parties in the process. But what's there is. I think, however, those citizens who applied for legalisation will be able to exercise their rights when they applied for legalisation. There will be many other situations where various unforeseens will happen, however, I believe that those who are doing this process will know to apply both this law and other legal regulations related to legalisation in the right way. If they do not, it is normal that the party will have some principles, when it comes to this legalisation, that it will otherwise be able to exercise its right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37508	Six minutes and thirty seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk MP, Vjerica Radet, and then the MP Milan Avramovic, followed by Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37509	Article 148, this final position 7, states: “According to the solution set out in Article 6, an appeal may be made within eight days of the date of delivery of the solution to the water right holder. “ I really don’t understand this, if it wasn’t accepted, if you went with amendments and additions to the Law because you understood that the eight - day period had to be replaced by 15 days. I especially don't understand the explanation. I want first of all to comment on this argument, and then I will make further arguments, convinced that you will still accept this amendment. You are saying that this amendment is not accepted for the reason that the deadline for removing the shortcomings in the lab is determined depending on the nature of the deficiencies detected, as well as the complexity and scope of the works that may be necessary to be re-implemented on the ground. It is also necessary to take into account the weather and other conditions. I'm not going to read any more, I'm going to stay here because this is really interesting. I've read a lot of laws in my life, but I've never seen the deadlines for the execution of an action bind to the fact that in the period when this store is going to snow, whether it's raining, whether it's too warm. It is, Mr. Dulic, no matter what the cataster of immovableity is, truly impossible. You should have, or you should have accepted this amendment today, to set an optimal time limit. Of course, according to the General Administrative Procedure Act. Optimal deadline means a time limit in which a specific action can be done, and when it rains, and when it snows, etc. Of course everyone will try to get this job done as soon as possible, because this job is in the interest of the one who filed the motion in the immobiliser. Or, to set a deadline, it says – since it is determined depending on the nature of the observed shortcomings and complexity of the job. It's also something that can't stand in the law. In the general administrative procedure you have 30 days and 60 days. To your dictionary, it's 30 days for simple jobs. For complex, where additional evidence is provided, which is two-stage, two-party business, etc. It's 60 days. You were supposed to fit those deadlines. That's why we can't accept it. Now I'm going to explain why you're going to have one unacceptable legal norm again. Unacceptable and inadmissible, which is even worse. Article 148 is in direct collegiation with a member of the same law. You say, and you do not accept the amendment of counterpart Munjic, in paragraph 5: “When there are shortcomings in the process of reviewing the elaborates, the record requires a geodetic organisation to remove the shortcomings left behind. “ The period left is a concept that depends on employees who are currently processing someone’s subject. It may, under the same circumstances, set an eight-day deadline for someone from 30 days, regardless of what rains, which is the same period of time, the same period of year, etc. You can't and can't have any norms in the law that are so wide that it can actually open up the possibility of abuse. This is what you're actually protecting these... When we talked about this law, we told you that you actually passed the law because of these private geodetic organizations. You can't protect them in such a brutal way. Article 183 refers to fines and fines paid by a geodetic organisation if it does not do this or that, etc. Among other things, you say - if you do not remove a certain period of irregularity in the procedure of review and reception of works and in the procedure of supervision. Joker Question – What's the deadline? What deadline will you respect? In article 148, you're talking about a deadline left behind. Here you predict a punishment if these irregularities are not removed within a certain time limit. In both of these articles, we intervened with amendments when we talked about basic law. Unfortunately, you didn't listen to us and don't listen to us again, and you'll have problems again. What kind of punishment did you provide for a misdemeanor for a geodetic organization in the first place? Among other things, you say - they will be fined from 50,000 to 500,000 dinars if they do not inform the Institute of the prevention of operations lasting longer than one month, within three days of the day of the occurrence of the reason for the prevention. We intervened with the amendment when we talked about the basic text of this law, because this is unsustainable. Once again, some geodetic organization will miss that three-day deadline. They won't notify of the inability to do this job. Or, even if you inform on the last day of this 30-day period, again, gentlemen, the question arises – when will someone who gets a deadline from one of his municipalities end up delivering a geodetic video of his facility to legalize within 60 days? You really need to take care of practical things, because you're going to have a lot of headaches. I'm not worried your head's gonna hurt, I'm worried your head's gonna hurt the citizens. The head of the citizens who will receive the solution will suffer, i.e. the conclusion of the municipality, to supplement the legalisation documentation within 60 days. They're gonna hire some geodetic organization to do that geodetic video. The geodetic organization will inform the 30th day that it is unable to do the job. So, what's going on? They will hire another organization, which will again be irresponsible, on the same 30th day, to inform them that they cannot do so. So what? That facility is going down, or maybe on this double tax. Mr. Dulic, consult with the gentleman next to you, believe me, I'm not telling an empty story. Compare these two members, compare the deadlines of this Law on Planning and Construction, which regulates the matter of legalization, and you will see that I am absolutely right. I have no intention of scaring the citizens of Serbia with what I'm saying. It is my intention to draw attention to the need for citizens to take care of it too because, unfortunately, the state does not want to show that it wants to take care of it. Your laws are a letter on paper, unfortunately. It's not just the case with this law. You also boast and boast that the president of this House is being passed with the speed of this "factory" called the National Assembly. Unfortunately, the law of order is passed. We're just distracting you that you should pass laws in the interests of the citizens. I guess the point is to pass the law to make people feel better, at least in that segment of the law. It's amazing how many years we've been trying to teach you that, but somehow it's not working. Here, and these amendments and additions of the law will be in some report as - we have passed another law. I repeat, when we discussed the basic text of this law in principle, I told you, remember, Mr. Dulic, we'll see you in a few months, you'll have to change this law. You smiled, nodded your head like this, that it wouldn't be like that. You're doing the same thing today, Mr. Dulic. Believe me, we'll be changing this law again very soon. I repeat what I said at the beginning: once again, take a good look at it, better to change it, than to have citizens have life problems because of the inapplicable law being passed here and that you are passing a law with such non-compliant members, which are and how they are connected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37510	Ten minutes and twenty seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word is made by MP Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37511	Mr. Minister, don't mind me if he takes your attention, but it's very important that we all understand together the fact that deadlines are important. I got the impression from your presentation that you really have the will and desire to introduce some order into the construction area, whether it's urbanism, construction, planning documentation, cadastre, and this law. However, problems in the field speak quite differently. In order for order to be introduced, as you suggest, into all those spheres that I have stated, it must start from the administration itself and from the people who are in charge of exercising executive power or to enforce the laws that we adopt here. I have to give you an example of the capital of Belgrade - the behaviour of city inspection and urban inspection, the behaviour of the ministry and the humiliation of both you and the ministry by placing lower legal acts above the higher and thus not respecting the orders of the ministry or the court or even the second-degree body in the city of Belgrade, the City Secretariat. So some municipalities gave themselves the right to have those objectives set out in their mandate by the end of their mandate and to achieve, without looking at what damage they would leave behind. I want to give you this example, first of all, because it's a municipality located in downtown Belgrade, it's a Sava Venac municipality, and second of all, because it has personnel from your party. My wish is that we try to solve this problem together, not to make a political case out of it and collect, as you like to say, political points, but to get all the rights, equal rights, according to this law that we adopted, about planning and building, and according to this law that's on the agenda today. Therefore, it is a specific location located across from the building “Pinka”; it is a block one, the central part of the circular flow of Dedinj, where the square is abnormally expensive and for that location tycoons have quite a need. What's a fact is the fragrant data we own, and I've prepared extensive documentation to give it to you, Minister. It is supported by the evidence that I will present here, only that I prove to you how important the deadlines are and how important it is that there is a certain legal framework for a period to end someone's torture as soon as possible and that the law, as-so-called, should be implemented as best possible. Although some times we may not agree with the law, we are in a position to respect the law because it has been passed. Although our amendments have not been adopted, we must respect the law, even force other people to respect that law and be angry with the court when they pass a verdict that is contrary to the law. Here's an example: In 2000 for this block 1 and block 20/4, it's Topcider Hill, the Star, which is, therefore, the green belt of the city of Belgrade, at the request of the owners of existing facilities, an initiative was launched and was paid to develop a detailed regulation plan for these blocks. The plan of detailed regulation was adopted in 2000. He was adopted by passing all that procedure that was in the legal framework at the time. What's bad is that the regulatory plan covers the objects in which it is located. If you could just give me a little attention, Minister, it would mean a lot to me. I won't be long, if it's not a problem, because I think you have such a degree of tolerance and democracy to flaunt MPs and give answers, and that's something that's good. So we have a regulation plan that was adopted in 2000. Within the regulatory plan, there are facilities that are located there. The owners of these facilities, respecting the legal procedure, have filed a motion for legalisation. These objects aren't legalized, not even today. There is also a constitutional decision that says that the regulation plan for cases, blocks, for which I will provide you with complete data, is in force and that the lower legal act cannot change the decision of the higher one. Your ministry has given several orders to the Sava Venec municipality to respect this regulation plan and to complete the legalisation process according to the cases for which they applied. Unfortunately, your ministry did not respect the Sava Veneto municipality. You, Minister, will not be honored by the Sava Venac municipality because it is an extra location. When we have such an example in practice that a central municipality in Belgrade does not respect the law, does not respect the ministry, what should we expect from municipalities across Serbia, where there are no attractive locations? So the court rulings that exist for the benefit of the citizens of these two blocs that I have cited are in favour of their respecting the legal norm. A constitutional decision that says the regulatory plan is in force and that the facilities are included in it also says that it is respected by legislation. What is not legal is that the Sava Venac municipality is launching a new regulation plan, in which the parameters of objects are completely different than they are existing, and therefore it has not been possible to legalize objects since 2000. Mr. Minister, today is 2010. Every day, these citizens are worried about whether a badger will come in front of their house, shop, and if that store will stay. So they have a constitutional decision in their favour, they have a court ruling in their favour, they have your ministry's orders in their favour, and the Sava Veneto municipality is still doing what it does. She hired a private company, Step M, which took an enormous sum of money to make an architectural urban solution. That solution has nothing to do with an existing object. That solution should be paid because it, like, won the competition. The fact that the municipality spends money on such things now is not an interesting item to me at all, but it is that the parameters of that competition are not even close to the existing state. That means someone wiped those people out there with their shops, catering facilities and houses, and simply plotted that there was something that wasn't even foreseen by the regulation plan. In order to legalise this, the regulatory plan was launched at the session of the City Assembly. Seeing the huge impediments to the Sava Venencies, the City Assembly took it off the agenda. But we're afraid it'll be back on the agenda because there's a court verdict that's already annulled one of the city's parliament's decisions. While these decisions are being annulled, lawyers engage, costs arise, the municipality has even introduced one agency, "Strategic Marketing", which surveyed citizens in those blocks whether they want their house to be a mall, market or I don't know what. You, Minister, as I know, some things can only be changed if it's the general interests of the city, if it's a hospital, a fire station or something that has to be there, and that's why things change. So, to change objects that have existed since the 1980s, which can't be legalized for ten years because there's the will of a municipality president, or maybe one city president or city council, it doesn't matter... Breaking the regulatory plan is a violation of the Constitution. The regulatory plan is in force, it can only be changed in the way it was adopted. The city council can't change the regulation plan anywhere. Only the Ministry can do that. The city's assembly can either agree to launch a plan or participate financially in it, but to change it cannot, especially not the purpose of the facility, it is already foreseen by law and framed in the same. So, please, Minister, since I have five opinions from your ministry here, claiming that these people in the legal framework in which the legalisation process had to be completed by 2004... They fit all the laws in planning and building, including this law. They have no right to realize the possibility of a legal framework like everyone else. They're an island in downtown Belgrade. Why? Because it's a green area. Because it is an extra location, the centre of Belgrade – Dedinje, Topcider hill, Senjak, because it is green areas where huge parks are located, etc. I can understand, Minister, that the Topcider Star is making noises and creating a water tank, because water is necessary, water is gone. I can understand that, although some of your party's representatives there were justifying themselves for that deforestation, and no one asked them about it, because it was done by the famous city firm "Monter" Dragan Kopčalic, which is why people are protesting daily in front of the Privatisation Agency, strike and are ready to go all the way. So, in order not to spread the story, I ask you to take this documentation seriously, that we try to solve this problem together, that these deadlines proposed by this amendment have a direct link to what it means to adopt the legal framework of the deadline, which means at all having a deadline on which they have to act. If the court ruling for the silence of the administration has been passed four times and if there is a constitutional verdict, I don't know what more should be done, which legal remedy to be applied in this country to ensure that citizens of these facilities, block 1 at Pink and block 20-4 on Topcider Star, sleep peacefully. That's where they invested their lives. They pay taxes, pay communals, pay taxes, they introduce infrastructure, they don't break any laws. It's not their fault they had used permits, so now they won't legalize them. It is not their fault that they invested in it; they had nothing else; it is their object, their living place, their dwelling place. I don't know what the role of this law is if the central municipalities in Belgrade don't respect it. Someone drew something, someone liked something, and it's no longer valid. When a park is cut and an object is built, I can understand, a tree can't complain, swings can't complain. But when you want to tear down a legal house for someone who's allowed to live here his whole life, then there's a big problem. I don't think we're in a pre-election campaign right now, so we get a variety of promises while the elections go through, and then the problem stays in place. I think this problem is tight on the deadline. All 10-year-old deadlines have been breached. The most important thing is to gain equal respect for the law in both Belgrade and Novi Sad, both in Subotica and Leskovac. If you want to put order in the building area, we need to start with the administration, from those people who are holding it back. You have allowed the formation of commissions (not you personally, but the Ministry) in the municipalities of the city of Belgrade, which should be dealt with whether or not someone has met the legalisation requirements. Then the council members were mostly members of these commissions and abused and crushed the enormous wealth by conditioning people who were legally entitled to additional paperwork, which is unnecessary, to allow them to legalise. This is the positive opinion of the Legalisation Commission, which had its own price list at the Savawedding. It's sad, in the central city hall. I mean, since you're the minister, since you're from your party, you're going to solve this problem. If you want to solve problems in that sphere, you need to get out of your house, then get out in the yard. I support your efforts to resolve it. All documents will be available to you. Any suggestions or any decision you make as a minister will be respected by these citizens, but let those people who have been suffering for ten years figure out if they'll get up in the morning and see a buffer in front of their house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37512	Thirteen minutes and thirty seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment, added after article 12, was submitted jointly by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Judita Popovic, Zoran Ostojic, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic. This amendment was not accepted by the Government. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37513	The President-in-Office, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we MPs of the Liberal Democratic Party have submitted this amendment, which we propose a brand-new member in the proposed law, which would provide that the law on the capital, or other law on local self-government, decision-making in the first degree, as well as the conduct of operations in the first degree of Article 1 of this Law, can be entrusted to certain units of local self-government if the principles of efficiency and integrity imposes it. When we proposed this amendment, we had in mind the fact that the proposed law was in the principal part of the technical nature. Even in the light of the law, it is stated that the reasons for bringing this law into line with other laws, eliminating the conflict of certain legal provisions and defining the deadlines for handling in the Republic of Geodesy. Article 14 of the proposed law is not mentioned. That's the article that makes this law on the agenda today. In fact, this refers to the maximum number of employees in the Republic administration, which is regulated by the Law on determining the maximum number of employees in the Republic administration. Article 14 is in fact an explanation of why the government had to adopt an amendment to the LDP MPs. This article points to the fact that the Republic Geodetic Institute is unable to cope with the difficulties that have arisen at this time when the Law on Planning and Construction is adopted, when the integration of the land book and the catastra of immovableity is under way, when there are so many jobs and the number of perpetrators in the Republic administration is reduced. Therefore, the objective declared by the Law on Planning and Construction and the Law establishing the maximum number of employees in the Republic administration cannot be achieved. It should also be considered to do something to improve the efficiency and integrity of work in administration, administration, or the Republic of Geodesy. The Liberal Democratic Party is of the opinion that decentralisation is also needed in the doing of these jobs, i.e. that a good part of the business is entrusted to local self-government authorities, or the city of Belgrade, the town of Novi Sad and the like. Why do we propose that? As I have already stated, your proposal for a law indicates that the republican geodetic administration is unable to carry out all those tasks provided for by the plan and work of the Republic Geodetic Institute. Legalization, new plans, conversions, right to use, are all difficulties that cannot be exclusively in the jurisdiction of such a centralized system, such as the Republic Geodetic Institute. For this reason, it is necessary, for the sake of the integrity and efficiency of the work of the administration, to allow local self-governments and cities to play a large part in their entrusted business by the RGZ. It's actually the goal that makes us propose that decentralisation, primarily efficiency and integrity. This goal can be achieved through decentralisation. The decentralisation can only be done by including, as I have already mentioned, the city of Belgrade, other cities, or local self-government. For these reasons, it is necessary to adopt this amendment. I would particularly point out that, for example, a regular annual report by the Citizens' Protectors for 2009 characterised the administration in the Republic of Serbia that it was largely turned towards itself rather than to citizens and their rights and to law-based interests, and the need for balance was shifted to the side of the administration when it comes to citizens' rights. When it comes to obligations, therefore, it is the citizens who carry the burden of obligations, and it is the administration that manages the rights and decides on the interests of the citizens. We read in the paper that 85% of the work is done, as far as uniting the land book and the catastras are concerned. How is it, for example, that every citizen can see for himself if he goes to the railway street in Novi Sad, where there is also a branch of the RGZ for Novi Sad, where citizens gather early in the morning and wait six hours to get to their turn to do certain necessary jobs in that catastrophe? The same can be said of both Belgrade and any other city in Serbia, and Zrenjanin, and Subotica, and Vršac and Negotin, so for all the places where one of the branches of the Republic Geodetic Institute works. Therefore, if this law already recognises that we have a problem in limiting the number of officials of the Republic administration, if we already admit that the number is insufficient to carry out the job effectively, comprehensively and rationally, I see no reason why a rational proposal is not adopted by the Government. The proposal is otherwise, as far as the implementation of the amendment is concerned, unscathed with small problems, but can bring great results. So, the Liberal Democratic Party, whenever it talks about rationalisation, whenever it talks about decentralisation, always takes into account citizens' interests, and citizens' interests are primarily about achieving all their rights in the shortest and most rational way possible, without these unnecessary problems they face daily, and because of legalisation, and because of the transfer of property rights and because of the conversion of the right to use into property rights. Therefore, once again, I would suggest to the government that they think carefully about whether we will declare this amendment positively today, or that we will soon decide to include local self-governments in a job currently carried out by the Republic Geodetic Institute, and obviously that it is not able to fully implement it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37514	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Verica Radet, and then a National MP, Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37515	It seems that, Mr. Minister, I was wrong to commend you at the beginning of today's debate, because you did not take part in this debate. We've tried some arguments on our part, but we haven't heard your opinion on it. Then at the end of the debate, in the bad manner of your colleagues, which has not yet been yours, you will comment on everything the MPs have said. Since we have this cockamamie Rules of Procedure, we won't be able to replicate it to you, nor to say something in our defense, but good. It is good that this amendment, where LDP colleagues have proposed that another member be added after Article 12. The State Prime Minister's and Catastro Act has not been passed, and I hope that the assembly majority will not adopt it either. I have not reported that I would in any way oppose or challenge the replicas of my colleagues who have submitted this amendment. Of course, everyone has the right to submit amendments, to express the views of their political parties through amendments and comments of the law. That's why we're here, and that's certainly the right that we don't challenge anyone. I have to comment, for at least one word in this amendment. Of course, and the whole amendment, because it's unacceptable, absolutely. Well, in your explanation, you've found that this is a government job and that this job has to be done from the state level. Of course there are cadastre centers on local self-government. Of course everything that is a technical part of the job can be done in the smallest place in Serbia, somewhere faster, somewhere slower. Last time I asked you how many cadastres you have at a bar that don't even have a dystom, as one of the basic little more modern devices. I'm sure there's still that, but it's certainly no reason to accept a amendment like this. This amendment, in essence, does not mean decentralisation. This amendment, if accepted, could be very dangerous. I don't want to think that the colleagues who submitted this amendment had bad intentions, but imagine how it could be interpreted and who would actually interpret this member if it was accepted, when it was said: “The law on capital, or other law on local self-government, decision-making in the first degree, as well as the conduct of operations in the first degree of Article 1 of this Law, can be entrusted to certain units of local self-government... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” For me, this “separated” has really burned both my eyes and my ears. How can we and how can we in law provide that we give some authority to one local government without giving it to another?- I'm sorry. What would be the criteria? Who would be the one to give himself so much authority and so much right to say it? In this municipality, he can't do it. This is something you can't possibly... I am saying this first of all because of an MP who will vote individually on amendments, because I see that you from the government understand that, that they make sure that no such amendment can be voted upon, because such an amendment would cause chaos, abuse. Neither Luka Belgrade nor the mouth, I don't know what, would be equal to what could happen if we had a member like this. I'd like to ask you very briefly, Mr. Minister, although I won't have, as I said, the right to replicate after that. What pain has caused you to change a member of this law's 198th? In order for the public to know what it is, it is the fact that this member provides that the Institute will comply with the internal regulation and the systematization of jobs with the provisions of Article 197 of this Act by 30 September 2009, and with the other provisions of this law by 31 December 2009. Of course, it is clear that we have already been very clear in 2010, but it is not clear – and I also asked that when we talked about this law in the principle debate, and I don't know if you gave an answer to this question, as I said before, I had to go out – I really wanted to know, how in your service you so recklessly wanted to fire people in the Republic Geodetic Institute? I don't mean the director, I mean the minister, of course. What are the practical consequences, above all, of these jobs and of this information that was discussed by colleague Judita Popovic, how much work has been done to combine the katastres and land books? What it says in the paper is quite unconvincing and something you can hardly believe in. How much of that strike that the Ministry was responsible for because you wanted to rationalize employees in the state administration by firing people from the Republic Geodesy Institute? Why didn’t you think about it in a serious way? I must remind again, for the sake of the public, when we talked about this law, we from the Serbian Radical Party turned our attention to, say, the number of employees in that office cannot be reduced. Of course, now that I'm not spreading the story on the subject, we were against the adoption of that law on the reduction of the number of employees and at the republican level and at the levels of local self-government, but if you already wanted to, and if you already wanted to, then it had to be taken seriously and objectively to see where it wasn't possible. If you knew that such a job was now taking over (or should have already taken over) the Republic Geodetic Institute, you had to see together with the Director of the Bureau whether there was a need for some more people from the profession to be employed at the Republic Geodetic Institute, in order for this job to be really quick, quality done. The people of the profession also know, this isn't a job that ends now and it's over. It is now a large part of the job, until all of this is united in the Geodetic Institute, or in the state diameter and the cataster, it is a large business, but every data that enters the cadastre is living data, which is very often changing. Ownership relations, purchases, gifts, inheritances, upgrades, expansion, change in the purpose of the plot, so as not to list all the competences of the office. These jobs will not be completed when one day we are informed by the Republic Geodetic Institute – as of today, citizens, please all of you go to your catastrases, where everything is tied up, there is your personal map of your immovableity. From that moment on, the intensity of these jobs will not be less. It's perfectly normal. It was therefore quite unserious and irresponsible to touch in the Republic Geodetic Institute, when it comes to the number of employees. In the principle debate, I said that you should not have boasted that the application of this law would not entail any new costs. You know, all state affairs have to cost the state, or citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but there are state affairs where citizens of the Republic of Serbia... I've never heard that they were angry that someone was employed in some catastrous, which receives some kind of salary, which, by the way, is not some high salary, because citizens know it's a place where they must at least once in three months, for this reason or for that reason, turn around. It's a good thing you've extended this deadline, in fact, you've had to, since the deadline provided for by the law has long expired, but (see this however you want, not to say it's a warning) take care of it, Mr. Minister, that this job is done by the end of this year and so we have a professional and qualified Republic Geodetic Institute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37516	Ten minutes and thirty-five seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word has a minister, Dr Oliver Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37517	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I had no intention of not participating in the debate, my intention was just to open up some questions that could be answered. Let's take it in a row. Speaking of the amendment submitted by the LDP group, I must say that the arguments are not only those described in the government's reply, but they are simply arguments because the whole law and the whole concept are written to bring our legislation into line with EU legislation. There is an EU directive called Katastar 2014, which recommends centralising the unique property records and standards that each geodetic institution must meet in order for the motility motifs to function as citizens. When we try to reform this whole area, we follow that directive. Experiences are very bad when motifs are passed on to local self-government because they are created by institutions that are directly under the influence of local political elites. That would cause a lot of trouble. This is a government job and it has to be done centrally and no decentralisation would have happened if some local self-government had now taken over the authority to run the immobility cadastry, so we think we were right when we refused this amendment. As for the Savawedding and the questions asked by the MP Avramovic, of course I know what this is about. I think you've said several times that what the Ministry gave as an interpretation is in accordance with the law. We'll do our best to get out of this problem. You'll give me the paperwork you have and you'll have the answer. As for the amendment submitted by MP Munjic, it is one misunderstanding of the overall work to be done. He's not good for eight days, he's not good for 15 days. We do different kinds of activities, for which sometimes no deadline can be established. It's about different types of fieldwork, geodetic shooting, which is about different conditions and in different dimensions. It's true that you work both in winter and in summer. Sometimes it's impossible to do field work in winter. It's about shooting one catastrian plot, one street, one neighborhood, and that's why a term is used that actually needs to define a supplement, or a flaw that needs to be removed in the embossed work of geodetic houses. You can't define in the law a solid deadline because it can't be special because you have different kinds of activities to do. Some irregularities can be removed, it's true, within eight days, but some irregularities can be removed within a few months. What if it snows in the meantime and it's not possible to do a certain geodetic scan until the snow melts? Serbia is a big country. Serbia has different terrains. In Serbia, when you write one general act, you have to apply it to real life. That's why we couldn't accept your proposal. It is true that for this reason, even the eight - day period was not good, and for this reason it was changed and the term that exists was used. This is not subject to the deadlines that exist in the Administrative Procedure Act because this is not a procedure conducted in an office, so we need to stick to it strictly. This is a procedure that includes field work in addition to office work. You've opened up a few questions that are also very important to us. I think it's a matter of the number of objects in place. On Tuesday, a republican construction inspection will have the exact information regarding all the facilities that local self-government has reported as illegal objects, all cases that have entered legalisation procedures under this and other laws. Then we will be able to know how many objects are illegal in Serbia and how many objects have entered the legalisation process. Then we'll be able to assess how successful the entire legalisation action is. I believe it is successful. I can tell you that she's a success because we've managed to initiate a historic procedure, and we're finally seeing the end. We see the end because the legalization process needs minimal documentation this time. I think legalization is now, as far as the price is concerned, the most appropriate. Now I would like to take the opportunity to call the local self-government again to not take the legalisation process as a way to fill the local register and fill the gaps in the budget, but to understand it as one procedure in which we are correcting something that was bad in the past, which must definitely lead to our country finally being legal. This is just one step in a deep reform in the area of construction and urbanism, which should leave historical results, that we finally try to prevent in Serbia from having mass-building illegal buildings in the future, that local self-governments have no income, that they have no control and that, of course, there is a great urban chaos, which is daily life in Serbia and is the consequence of neglecting planning, as one important area, but also the very respect for certain parameters of construction and urbanism decades ago. It is also important for local self-government in this process to be very effective. I know that the reality in Serbia is such that in some local self-government the legalisation process will be completed in a few months, in some local self-governments this will probably end in a few years. In any case, regardless of what is used as an argument, which still seems to me to be a fear of citizens that there are now some rigorous deadlines, so what if those deadlines do not meet, anyone who has entered the legalisation process, anyone who can legalize their facility in accordance with the Law on Planning and Construction, I am sure that this process will end successfully. I am sure that each of the citizens has a direct interest in delivering the documentation the local self-government requires to complete the procedure. The local self-government is now well organized and I am glad that the largest number of cities are well organized. I'm glad they found very, very good, pragmatic solutions to increase the number of objects that have entered legalization. It is true that in the end, on the last day of some local self-government only assigned numbers, that citizens had the opportunity to supplement the documentation later to enter the process. That's good. We don't want to tear down any object that can enter the legalization process and legalize under this law. We want this project to succeed and we want the largest number of objects in Serbia to finally be legalised. As, of course, our intention is to exercise very strict control of local self-government and not to allow wild construction to take place in the future. As successful as that will be, it's not just the Ministry that depends. I remind you that this ministry in the construction and urban sector has several dozen employees. We can't know what's going on in every corner of Serbia. I know that each of us could find examples of bad practice, but, as I said last time, it's your obligation to try to fight it with us. It is good that MPs send applications to the Ministry, for we, as we try, respond adequately to every application you make. For me, it's also a big question, when we talk about legalisation, which should be opened as a topic, the question of spending money that is the income of legalisation. We would like that money to be spent for the purpose of restoring municipal and other infrastructures, we would like that money to be spent equally and evenly in those regions where they are also collected from the legalisation process. We would like it not to be the revenue of the budget to be spent on wages, pensions, sports events and representations, but rather to be the revenue that will be spent to improve sewers, waterways, streets, lighting and everything that citizens need daily for better quality of life. We hope that local self-government will understand that, but I repeat, it is no longer in our hands. We can't be responsible for everything. We've initiated one procedure. It is now up to those who are running local self-government today to carry out the procedure. I am sure that the issue of legalisation, the issue of legalisation prices, the issue of efficiency, how the whole legalisation process is organised and the question of spending money which is the income of local self-government from legalisation will be one of the parameters, the criteria when citizens decide in some local elections for whom they will vote. It is an invitation to all, if they want to be effective and good, to meet their citizens and voters – to complete this legalisation process properly. Finally, the question of tax, double taxation of illegal objects, their removal, that is, the question of the destruction of illegally built objects - I have to repeat something that I stand behind, none of us like to tear down houses. I think it's the saddest thing that can happen to anyone, that they're involved in the process of destroying any object and any object, but it has to be done sometimes. I wanted to see how ready we are as a system to participate in this. The best parameter for that was how much local self-government this year planned to remove illegal objects. The data is disappointing and shows that there is still no awareness of our local self-government that the removal of illegal objects is one of their obligations, which they will have to implement this year. For example, the Ministry provided significant resources. It envisioned in a new systematization that it formed a enforcement department, which will only be involved in this business. We want to show that the law has to be respected, from top to bottom. When someone asks me a question – here, we have an example of not respecting it... We know that this is happening, we know that many things are happening that are not in accordance with the law, and we are aware that law enforcement, law enforcement requires a lot of time, energy and patience, and a lot of good manifestations. That's what we're doing right now. We're trying, as Ministry, to show that we respect the law we've passed and we're asking every local government. There's a lot of problems, there's a lot of resistance. Several times when I was here in the National Assembly, and many times in the media, we talked about how many people exist in this country whose interests are directly opposed to the Law on Planning and Construction being implemented, and because of the issue of removing illegal objects, and because of the issue of the conversion of the right of use into property rights and millions of sums that will be the direct income of local self-government and the Fund for Restitution, and because of the acceleration of the authorisation process and because of the legal obligation to bring in planning urban acts, which will finally reduce the minimum amount of arbitration of administration and corruption. These are all things that many don't respond to. We will insist that the job is done by the end of this government's term. I don't think it would be a good idea to give up that job. As far as we're concerned, we're not giving up on that job. This requires the support of every political party. This isn't a job that's being done on the orders of an ideology or a single policy. This is a state-of-the-art job. I said last time – and if you came to power tomorrow, whoever, you'd have to do the same thing again, do legalization, insist on the adoption of urban planning acts; you'd have to insist on speeding up the authorisation procedure. These are all preconditions for increasing our competitiveness as a country for attracting foreign and domestic investment, but, more importantly, for improving the quality of life of our people, because the largest number of procedures that citizens lead, which concern the Law on Planning and Construction, are procedures that are conducted by an ordinary citizen in each municipality. That's why we insist on all this. Efficient implementation and completion of the legalisation process, on the one hand, and the insistence on the no longer taking place of wild construction and parallel adoption of all the necessary planning and urban acts that should define exactly where, what, the urgency, how busy the surface is, can be built, which are the conditions of municipal enterprises, all of this stands ahead as one document that is publicly available. I am sure that this will lead to one day treating these issues as everyday and ordinary issues, in which there are not too many problems and that everything you report as situations today (and we are aware that they are happening on the ground) will be only at the level of the incident, and not at the level of the rules, such as, unfortunately, in some municipalities this case today. Last time in the debate, many of you warned of a concrete violation of the law. I told them - submit to the D.A.'s office, file a police report, file an inspection to correct these things. Each of you must also be a citizen executive, each of you must be someone who will participate in the construction of a better, fairer and more efficient system, because it is an obligation for each and every one of us. I know that maybe some MP today will warn me that on the territory and in those municipalities, that's what's happened, and that's what's happened in the last year and a half, since we came to the Ministry, and before that, we've had roses, and before that, we've had a Scandinavian planning system, and it's never happened to build any object or some local self-government or some official in the local self-government violates the law. Guys, that's been going on for decades. For decades back, planning was neglected, creating a feeling that construction and urbanism could do anything. For decades back, every local self-government, every government, every party - and all parties on the political scene today were in some local self-government in power - allowed or looked through the fingers of those who build without permission, or no planning documents that were required to be issued without problems. We're all accomplices to the problems we're facing today. I think this is a good start to get out of these problems. I thank you for your constructive discussion, thank you for voting, I'm sure most of you will. To say in the end, the number of amendments that we as the Ministry accept is absolutely not about who comes from which party, but only about their direct implementation into something that has been an idea since the very beginning when we entered into law-making. We have also proven this by the number of amendments we have accepted in the amendments to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37518	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The word is Mr. Stevanović Dragan. (Dragan Stevanovic: Replica. ) I stick to the order reported, as was the application, then Mrs Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37519	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have listened carefully to the previous speakers and Mr. Minister as well. I don't think we got along very well. In the amendment of the Liberal Democratic Party MPs, the key words are "decision in the first degree". What does that mean? This means that if the first-degree decision is entrusted to the local self-government, it's only the first degree. That means that after the first one comes the second degree and, of course, there's the Republic Geodetic Institute to decide in the second degree. Other key words are “trustable. ” What does that mean? That it can be trusted, and we will use the following key words: “If the principle of efficiency and celebratory requires it. ” What does that mean? It will not always be trusted, but in accordance with these principles of efficiency and integrity, and all in the interest of the better and more efficient work of the state administration. Therefore, there is no word here on any possible abuse. This would only simplify the procedure in the work of the Republic Geodetic Institute, with assistance and local self-government. Unlike these key words in our amendment, the key words in the explanation of Mr. Minister when he explained why he considered this amendment unfounded were that "we cannot know what is happening in every corner of Serbia". I truly believe him that the Republic Geodetic Institute, or the Government, or the Minister, cannot know what is going on in every corner of Serbia, but it is the amendment of the Liberal Democratic Party that shows how much life is, because it provides solutions to how to avoid the situation so as not to know what is happening in every corner of Serbia. In particular, you're probably thinking about what's going on in the branches of the Republic Geodetic Institute in local self-government. That you really don't know what's going on and the fact that there's a lot of traffic in front of every magazine of the Republic Geodetic Institute, that these crowds are such that people wait for hours. I don't think anyone from the Ministry is in line in front of some desk of the Republic Geodetic Institute to wait for a list of immovableities. But citizens and how they get in line. So I really don't see any reason why they would give the government an alibi not to adopt this amendment. In an explanation of why this amendment was rejected, the Government stated that it was a state business, that it should not jeopardise the interests of private agencies dealing with geodetic affairs, and also take credit in fact condition that there are no significant conditions in doing such a serious job as has been taken over by the Republic of Geodetic Institute. None of these arguments support the reasons for the refusal of the amendment. State business is a serious business, but don't local self-government live, don't they exist in this country and do government jobs? They could be performing in the first degree, and the Republic Geodetic Institute would decide in the second, if it considers that there have been any irregularities. I don't think we can really accept the argument that private agencies dealing with geodetic affairs can be threatened by the fact that local self-government would take over part of the burden of doing what should otherwise be done by the Republic Geodetic Institute. Taking loans – I really don't see why these loans would in any way be of any effect on the fact that local self-governments are doing something for the general interest. As far as the Republic's administrative fees are concerned, I think it largely contributes to the cost of legalisation provided for by the Law on Planning and Construction. I don't think only local self-government can be held accountable if the organization is a little more expensive than the one being propagated and spoken of. I think that the republican administrative tax can also be greatly reduced, if it really wants to carry out legalisation, which is normally needed by Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37520	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37521	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for including you in this way, although you have spoken little of the objections made by the MPs; you have extended the subject more, which, of course, doesn't bother us, but God forbid Mrs. Komic was sitting behind you, you would hardly get away with it without warning. You have commented on the amendment of your colleague, Munjic. I guess we didn't get along so well. Of course, it is clear to each of us that geodetic works are done on the ground and that it is work outside; we also know what Serbia's configuration is; we know how long winter is, how much snow is, etc. But we also know how these geodetic works are done technically, and certainly there is no part of Serbia, for example, where geodetic imaging cannot be done at some 60-day interval, without stopping. When I spoke about this amendment, I drew your attention – if you do not want eight days or 15 days, fit into what the General Administrative Procedure Act provides, please fit in within 60 days. You say - all citizens have an interest in delivering the supplement. Of course they have, on behalf of the citizens, that's what we're saying, but the problem is that there's no way for a citizen to force that geodetic organization to do that, if you leave a deadline that's undefined. We wanted to help you and the citizens, especially the citizens. Leave a 60-day deadline, it's a maximum deadline for the ZUP. You must certainly meet that deadline, regardless of the rain and the snow. This is where the General Administrative Procedure Act applies and no longer than 60 days, right? That's right. That's right. The citizen will certainly make every effort not to wait 60 days, but to do it in six, if possible. In that sense, it was our intervention. You mentioned, or in response... I asked you if you had any information on the number of reported objects. I found something interesting, you said in a few days, in fact, that the Serbian public would have information on how many legalization facilities were reported and how many facilities were left for which they did not apply at all, i.e. which will continue to be called illegal objects. If I understand, Minister, this sentence of yours, you have a list of all the objects built on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. If that's the case, that's a good thing. I hope that list includes all those illegally built buildings in the territory of the Zemun municipality, which I was telling you about the other day, which began to build intensively since the change of power in the Zemun municipality. You also mentioned the question of spending money on legalization, so you say – we would like to spend on this, we would like to spend on it. Well, there's nothing to love. First of all, you, by the law of supervision, as Ministry, can in some way influence it, on the one hand, and on the other hand, you know exactly how you can spend funds from a communal account in each local self-government. So there is this account defined and the funds that go to that account must not be spent on anything, but on the municipal infrastructure. If you think someone spends it on wages somewhere or does something the other way around, then it's not just a financial offense, not just a violation that is subject to financial control of a budget inspection, it's an offence that goes to prison. It's really good that you said that publicly, and here, and on our part, an invitation to the authorities to deal with this problem. So every penny that a citizen gives under legalisation must be returned through municipal infrastructure. Maybe not on that street where that facility is, maybe there's nothing wrong with that street infrastructure, but that citizen where there's nothing missing he's connected to both the plumbing and the sewers, so that money's going to go to that street where there's no communal infrastructure. Of course, you said you expected all of us to help you, let's say conditionally, in the application of this law. Yes, we will always help anyone, Mr. Minister, who in any way fights corruption. The application of this law and that Law on Planning and Construction, but consistent application, is also a fight against corruption and, of course, in that respect, if it really works out, we will not say anything against it. You say -- any of you come to power tomorrow, you'll have to do legalisation, you'll have to do a plan act, etc. We have been saying years ago that legalisation must be done seriously in Serbia. Years ago, we've been saying that the reason for building buildings without a building permit, perhaps one of the biggest reasons, is that local self-governments didn't do the planning act and that people were forced to build without a building permit. So, I don't know who you were talking to, since mostly we from the SRS talked about it, but I really don't know what's going on here, as far as we're concerned. Yeah, legalization needs to be done. Legalisation prices must be suited to today's economic status of Serbian citizens. You said legalization shouldn't be seen as just filling the municipal budget, and that's true. Of course, some funds must be allocated because those people who received the building permit had to pay some funds for certain infrastructure connections, etc. It's all true, but don't complain to us, but here you are, using your right of supervision as a competent ministry to have and take care of how prices are formed and how those money is spent. You said that in some municipalities this job will end in just a few months, I mean legalization, and in some municipalities in a few years. Minister, this law has been in effect for seven months and hasn't even started to apply. So it's hardly going to end within six months. If you come out with information that at least in one municipality in Serbia in six months all requests have been processed and completed, here, we from the SRS will publicly commend you. But that's not the point. It doesn't matter whether this job ends in a year or two, it's been waiting this long; it's important that this job is really done and it's important to make sure that in local self-government, the inspection is engaged so that the construction is stopped. If this job is not done, we “painted free, ” because what you are about to come out of the data... Yeah, you've passed the law, people have filed demands, these demands will be resolved maybe not in three years, in five, but they'll get rid of, they exist out there in the archives, they'll be resolved, but if the building process without a building permit continues, none of that work. It will continue unless the deadline laid down in the law is respected, not this one, but the planning and construction, which refers to the drafting of the plans. You realize for sure that's actually the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37522	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The time foreseen for the debate of the SRS Parliamentary Group has expired, unfortunately, Mr. Munjic. Mr. Stevanović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37523	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wanted to comment on the amendment tabled by fellow MPs from the Liberal Democratic Party. I think Mrs. Radeta is right when she says this shouldn't be accepted. And you're right when you say you shouldn't be accepted. I don't see their evil intentions, of course, but our concept and approach to that decentralisation that you just mentioned is diametrically opposed. We don't think that would represent any kind of decentralisation. I'll tell you later why we see it that way, when I comment on some things that directly concern the local level. You said you needed the support of all parties. The Serbian Radical Party has actively participated in the process of adopting this law, and it seems to me that with the proper number of constructive amendments we have proven it. After all, if they had been accepted then, this debate would not have happened. We have now participated in the debate through amendments to the SRS, or in discussions on amendments that were proposed by our party at the time. At this point, we believe it is the only possible contribution from the SRS, at least at this level and in this home, to participate in supporting the country's possible or alleged definition of introducing order in Serbia's space. I have to comment on two categories you mentioned earlier. I have no doubt that we are different attitudes, that is, when it comes to these things, which are European directives and local political elites. That's two categories that are incompatible. Until the government in this country shows that it is ready to deal with local political elites, from whatever parties they come from, and from yours and from another, there will be no order in the room. Of course, dealing with local political elites depends not only on your ministry. The space is something serious, space, i.e. adequate treatment of space implies sublimation of these sectoral policies, whose application in some space would give certain effects. This certainly cannot be reduced solely to the Ministry of Planning and Construction, but almost all ministries in the government of the Republic of Serbia. While in all the ministries of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, such as the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, the Ministry of Trade, the Ministry of Finance, does not recognise the will to deal with local political elites... I don't mean in the sense of political reckoning, but to seduce order in these municipalities and that everyone knows what place it belongs to. You know, you can try, but because of these facts, it's hard for you to convince someone after that, no matter how hard you try, that the garbage is not waste, but capital, which I fully support. It's hardly anyone in Serbia will understand, accept and support it when they meet daily with a bunch of office problems on the ground, in practice, and see where it can turn in the state and ask for assistance, help, to seek support for a thing that is definitely used by law or, I would say, by public interest. What I want to ask you is, it might not be bad for you to answer, since the adoption of the Law on Planning and Construction, when it comes to... We have expressed concern that the Law on Planning and Construction will fall into the shadow of legalization. It seems that's what happened, but when it comes to legalization, there was even talk that the government would try to secure loans for legalization. Legalization implies, you know what. We are only interested in whether money, however high legalisation fees, or the amount of legalisation in certain local self-governments, will be sufficient for the state to comply with all the obligations it will make through the legalisation process? That, for example, is one question that you could give an answer to – what is the assessment and what is it going to be? Will the interest of the state in this whole story be realized and realised specifically on the ground or will it be left without an adequate treatment when this process is brought to an end? You see, these amendments you've accepted... I think you could have accepted this third one, but, I say, we are pleased, the Serbian Radical Party has thus shown that this topic and these things are really of interest. What is a problem for the SRS is that today's space in Serbia has not yet been given an adequate position, adequate treatment by all those who deal with the area. Unfortunately, and unfortunately, all the laws that are adopted today in this assembly, and you boast that you are harmonising them with EU directives, 75% of them have a direct application at local level. When it comes to these laws that we're talking about today, as far as planning and construction are concerned, they definitely have a problem because they're applied specifically at the local level. Therefore, he is concerned about the amendments submitted by LDP colleagues. This is being brought into context with those political elites we were just talking about. The reasons for the unpreparedness of local self-government to deal adequately with all of these are both subjective and objective. They're objective because today you have local self-government that solutions to construction administrations type on typewriters. You have local self-governments who can't write projects that will apply for money at your office or another ministry without talking to some other funds, where at this point we have the right to access. You have local self-government that, for subjective reasons, doesn't want all this to be implemented. Whatever our political relationship is to the law you're making, the law, which most people adopt, should be respected. You have local self-governments who don't want to do it, or do everything they can to get around regulations and find holes in that law. There is no law that does not try to put political insolence into place. Here, the law that is once again related to this, which is the law on the maximum number of persons employed at the republican and local level – see what local self-government is doing, that is my experience: a local self-government, where space and this area really deserve attention, using local leadership or political elite, which you were talking about earlier, has used the law to remove everything that is in professional and quality terms, and in terms of planning and urbanism, from the municipality. They did it by relying on the law. It's only been five or six months, and that same local self-government has applied to the National Employment Service for a project of public works and asked for two employees to be employed with a seventh degree of professional training in the legalisation of facilities. Top experts, people who have had years of experience, have participated in the development of planning and urban documents in local self-government, have been kicked out of work because of the interests of local political elites, so a few months later, you are asked to be allowed through public works projects by the state to engage two or three people under contract for a certain period of legalisation procedure. As a citizen, do you, as a minister directly responsible for all this, rely on such local self-government? Of course you can't. You can show as much as you want effort, will, and determination that things are done in an adequate way, in a way that prescribes procedures, we really don't trust that something like that will happen. We don't put it personally on you, but these are the weaknesses this government is showing. We can't share responsibility here, you in the government have to look at yourself, see who's doing what any of you in the government are prepared to do. There's no compromise. That's what we talked about a few days ago. Not everything can be allowed when the power needs to be formed, and when the government is formed, then we all participate. I'm not running away from everyone showing a part of their responsibility; traces behind individuals who are in politics these years, whom you have called upon, are still visible. Someone showed their will, and then someone comes along who wants to dissipate it, and, imagine, individuals are above the state. Whenever you show the will to stand up and deal with such, you will have support; I am not talking about the level, but for such things you will have the support of people who are committed to the public interest, who want order in the country and those who believe that everyone in the country will benefit from that order. The Serbian Radical Party, I repeat, believes this is very serious. Mr. Minister, we don't want to diminish your will and commitment, we know what the problems are, but roll your sleeves, bend all those who are your subordinates, if I can put it like that, you won't mind me, whip into my hands and force them into the field. If you don't put order in the country, everything else is pointless. If there is no order in the space, in the state catastrus, all the stories of the European perspective and the progress of this country are meaningless. This is the point, everything else is a farce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37524	Thank you, Mr. Stevanovic. The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37525	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll use the MP's time. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the principle debate on the amendments to this law, we have made several dilemmas – do you have the power to apply these laws and whether you own it; the second dilemma was whether this law was in line with the other laws in the Republic of Serbia. So we didn't get those answers from you at the beginning of the principle debate, and I am obliged to warn you, for the sake of the public, one fact. Mr. Minister, we understand that the amendments to this law are not in accordance with some laws that have been passed before, but what if we were to pass some law as was the law that we discussed two days ago and which is still in the process, and in the beginning is not in line with this law that you are proposing? Apparently the minister can't listen to me. So, you wrote in the light of this law that your ministry expects increased scope of affairs and active participation in the upcoming denationalisation and restitution procedures, i.e. the return of property, as well as the comprehensive digital application of the 2011 census. You see, Mr. Minister, you're talking about restitution and return of property, and two days ago, we had a law that speaks exactly the opposite. I'll remind you of article 110. The law of savagery and hunting, and I ask you to listen carefully to me, Mr. Minister. The second point of view of this Article 110 states: “The so far-called beneficiary of the hunting ground who, after the entry into force of this law, is not assigned a catch on land, as well as the so far-called beneficiary of the hunting grounds who has not been granted the right to manage the hunting grounds by public advertising, has the right to compensation for unamortised parts of the non-amortised hunting and hunting facilities built.... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” Mr. Minister, have you figured out what this is about? You're talking about restoring property, restitution, and your colleague is talking about taking hunting and hunting facilities. What's this about? Is there any co-operation between your ministry... According to the portfolio, your ministry should be dealing with this kind of problem. Obviously, the minister doesn't listen to me, and this is a very important topic. It's about dozens of objects, who knows how many surfaces, the hunting homes, who've worked for years. Despite the declaration of Mr Oliver Dulic's campaign for denationalisation, restitution, return of property, someone will take away hunting facilities and hunting-technical facilities by one move. Can we get an answer from you, Mr. Minister, if that law is in accordance with this law of yours? Shall I ask you a question again? You didn't hear? Is it that you are in favour of restitution and recovery of assets and denationalisation in accordance with Article 110? The game and hunting law? I read you that article. (President: Mr Dimitrievich, I very reluctantly have to interrupt you and tell you that we are discussing an amendment proposed by the MPs to add a new Article 12a, which has nothing to do with denationalisation or legalisation, only by decision-making. So the administrative procedure is also a proposal for him to get a little classy. That's the darkness. Please connect now with the amendment, because it's according to the Rules of Procedure. ) In his previous presentation, Mr. Minister spoke of the harmonisation of this law with other legal acts in the Republic of Serbia. I'm saying it's not like that, and I expect Mr. Secretary to answer these questions for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37526	Thank you. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final word, or do we consider it already done? Thank you very much. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I would like to thank Mr Oliver Dulic, Minister, for the successful completion of the debate in detail on the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Crossing and Catastrophe. We move to the 15th item of the agenda – Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on cross-border transport in the company (single) pursuant to Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, has called for the session to be attended by Milorad Ilic, an assistant minister for infrastructure, to be present in particular on the 15th item of the agenda. You have received amendments to the bill submitted by MPs Milan Avramović, Bojan Mladenovic, Sreto Peric, Mirko Munjic, Radiša Ilic, Vladan Jeremic, Nikola Savic and together Zoran Shami and Milan Dimitrijevic, as well as the Transport and Connections Committee. You have received a report from the Committee on Transport and Communications and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. I would like to inform you that the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Serbia -- Unity Serbia will represent the authorised representative, Mr. Djordža Milicevic, that the authorised representative of the Democratic Party of Serbia -- Dr. Vojislav Kostunica, Dr. Zoran Shami, and the SRS parliamentary group will represent Mr. Vladan Jeremic, as an authorised representative. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic, who wants a word. Mr. Jeremiah, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37527	Thank you. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are still in the debate that we led here a few days ago in the Republic's Parliament to find that this area, although seemingly does not gather more attention to the public and MPs, and how important, or legal regulation that should accompany all the changes and additions of the Law on International Transport in Road Transport, which, just to remind us, are from that original law passed some 12 years ago, here, for the fourth time, with minor changes and additions, in front of the Serbian Parliament. I think we agreed that the consequences of everything that has been going on over the past year, and as far as the global economic crisis is concerned, may have been the most felt by carriers dealing with the international transport of goods, taking into account the reduced volume of trade in goods, the difficulties in the collection of debts, the facing of domestic carriers by the competent authorities, the limited contingent of permits. So these are some things that absolutely need to be regulated by legislation. Our wish was to try to make a certain contribution through a number of amendments that we have submitted as the SRS Parliamentary Group, exclusively in order to make an even more qualitative and constructive view of this matter. One of these amendments is the one that I submitted to article 1, in particular, item 1, where it was asked to finally add the words "under equal conditions". It is, in fact, about the addition of the Law, by providing for the terms: permit, individual permit, time permit, CEMT permit, special permit, travel log, travel document, driver license, etc. Data are their meanings, and in this particular case it refers to a permit for international transportation of passengers or things. The explanation is that it is a document allowing a foreign carrier to access and move on the territory of the Republic of Serbia and a domestic carrier to access and move on the territory of other countries. What we wanted with the amendment to sort of fix is a formulation – on equal terms. We were exclusively guided by this intention, given the fact that domestic carriers face many difficulties when it comes to customs authorities of other countries, formalities carried out etc. It is known that a lot of time is lost and that all of this has certain repercussions to perform this work. So we felt that it was necessary in some way, at least through this amendment, or the bill, to enable work and domestic transporters under equal conditions. I think that the promoter, or government, did not interpret this amendment in the way we wanted it, because it was not accepted for the reason that, as it stands here, "the solution proposed in the amendment, which is aimed at equating the customs authorities of other countries to domestic carriers and customs authorities of the Republic of Serbia to foreign carriers, is not subject to the regulation of this law. Therefore, the amendment cannot provide the same conditions for domestic and foreign transport operators to carry out international transport in road transport. “ I’m sure we’ll agree that each country absolutely wants to have control of the transport carried out on its territory and, of course, tries to put its own interests first. That's where all the problems with the contingents of licenses and everything else that follows. So, for that reason, and because I mentioned earlier a time that can be lost during some formalities, and a submitted amendment, to try in some way, at least through this form, to allow equal conditions for domestic transporters in case they carry out international transport of goods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37528	They've been used three minutes and thirty seconds since authorized. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Transport and Connection Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. The Transport and Connection Committee has not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Transport and Connection Committee has not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37529	In order to clarify, the amendment was submitted to Article 2(3). The bill, where the word "French" is added to the word "Russian language". We felt that Russian is also one of the official languages used in this communication, especially as the largest part of the transportation of our carriers is currently being carried out with the countries of the former eastern bloc, where Russian is dominant in practical application. We believe that this is indeed a meaningful amendment, which will only make it easier to do this job.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37530	National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Transport and Connection Committee has not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37531	It's about the same story here as the last amendment. Therefore, it is again requested that Article 3, more specifically in the new Article 4b item 1 point 4) be added after the word "French" and the words "Russian language". I can only express my satisfaction that the government has expressed its willingness to include this amendment in the bill. The explanation is identical to this earlier one: therefore, it is absolutely necessary and appropriate to translate the labour contract into Russian in a specific case because it is an official world language, and most of all for this reason which I have stated, which is that a large part of the transport of our carriers is directed right towards the countries of the former Eastern bloc where the Russian language is absolutely in use.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37532	Thank you, Mr. Jeremiah. Here, another similar or identical situation. The People's MP Radisa Ilic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. The Transport and Connection Committee has not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has Dr. Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37533	Mr. Chairman, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, on behalf of the Democratic Party of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to which Article 5... The two new members who are an integral part of that Article 5 states the provision: ‘It is prohibited for the domestic carrier to carry out international public line or out-of-line transport of passengers by other vehicles other than by bus. “ We asked that it be completed with two words: “or a minibus. ” A colleague from the ministry explained that this was covered by the term “bus, ” because everything that has more than eight plus one seat, as I understand it, belongs to the bus. However, the law does not read laymen, who do not have to know what category it belongs to. I don't think it hurts to insert the term "minibus". Yet in everyday life, in our daily speaking under the bus, we usually mean something that is a big bus, so to speak. I think it should be a lot of insistence on having that minibus ride, too, so to speak, regular. That way, on the one hand, many wild rides, so to speak... They are related from Central Europe to cities in Serbia, once a week minibuses drive passengers, usually full, without talking about some shorter relations between Bosnia and Serbia, etc., where they drive daily, so our idea was to make it clear to everyone that transport by minibus is also legitimate and legal transport. That's the meaning of this amendment. I don't see why he wasn't accepted, I think he could have been accepted very smoothly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37534	Thank you, Mr. Shami. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Transport and Communications Committee, submitted an amendment to Article 7. The word is Mr. Gjorge Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37535	Mr. Novakovic, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the amendment proposed by the Resolution Committee, I am convinced, is also the result of a quality debate which was held in principle on this extremely important legislative proposal. I would really like first to express my satisfaction that the resolution committee in one qualified, quality, professional and competent way considered everything that was discussed during the debate in principle. Why did I answer that? Because I was one of the initiators in the debate in the principle that they felt was necessary in a particular context, just as it was proposed by this amendment proposed by the resolution committee, to change certain things when it comes to art. 13a, 13b. In particular, Article 7 provides for compulsory training, without any possibility of release, for responsible persons, i.e. directors and managers. Bearing in mind the fact that the original proposal neglected knowledge relating to regular education, knowledge of the highest degree in the field of traffic (among other things, there were words), knowledge gained through work experience, as well as the fact that compulsory training created unnecessary costs, the proposal was in discussion in the principle that the Ministry would consider and, if possible, suggest that the resolution committee propose that conditions be created for the Ministry to release the examinations of persons who already possess knowledge, which would be verified in the exam, as well as that training be optional, but optional. We consider this to be done by this proposed amendment, that is, the amendment proposed by the resolution committee. We appeal to the Ministry's representatives to accept this amendment because, once again, I want to be clear and precise to point out, it prevents unwarranted costs for transport companies and prevents the national education system from being questioned in a certain way. I want to believe that the representatives of the ministry will reconsider and accept the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37536	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37537	Amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37538	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Mr Avramovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37539	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, in the principle debate on this bill, we from the Serbian Radical Party have presented some information for which we have asked for confirmation. What we've explained is not to repeat now, but the documentation we've prepared in support of this discussion will have to be presented to you now. You agreed with the discussion of the MPs of the SRS, you said we shouldn't go back, but the practice at the ministry hasn't changed. That is why this amendment has such a role, that I would not accuse you, but perhaps Damir Hadzic, Mrs Zekovic, or others, should stand, at least in this law, although the Law on State Administration defines it, according to some laws, the powers should bear only the ministries, and not the minister himself. Otherwise, you'll be guilty even though you're not. Now I'll tell you why. I received information about the license to carry out transport and things in domestic traffic for a foreign carrier, more specifically cabotage, for "Zagreb trance", from the Ministry of Capital Investments since 13 January 2005. Then I received information from the Trade Court, which determines the temporary measure that Eurospedu from Zemun prohibits trailers attached to brand vehicles and the ownership of another company, the "Zagreb trans" can be carried out, and there is a temporary measure to the legality of this solution. Then I received a complaint from the Trade Court in Belgrade from the company Bora Kecic, which was sued by the Ministry and received 164.360 euros in compensation because this ministry granted permission to cabotage to a foreign factor, and there was a domestic factor authorised for this kind of transport. We talked about transformers, I don't want to go back to them, but the contribution to that is the documentation that the same people are sitting in the Ministry today. In order not to cheer for the currents in the ministry, there are so many currents that Tesla can't manage, between Nenad Ivetic and current Commissioner Demir Hadzic, I have to give you just some information. Mr Nenad Ivetic himself provided some information in support of the manipulation of the distribution of CEMT permits, but we will discuss it in the further part of this discussion. I would first ask one question, which is very important to me, about the functioning of a foreign factor in our country. I'm going to give you a concrete example: Holeman is a Romanian company that works with us, registered to a Romanian citizen, who is there in considerable conflict with criminal law, and here he opened a company, in Albania, in Austria, in Moldova, in all those countries where manipulation can be easily done. The Holeman company was tasked with transferring baggers bought from Germany to the Shipar government in Kosovo and Metohija. These badgers were supposed to serve (and serve) to dig Serbian ore in the Trepca and Obilic mines. The transport of these badgers went from Smederevo port to Pristina. The transport was carried out so that the contract for the job was written in Temisvar, because we do not have payment traffic with the Shiptar government and paid more than 300,000 euros, and Serbia remains damaged for the tax. I ask you what you will do with the Romanian company Holeman, which deals with manipulation? What does he do with manipulation? I would not like to speak without proof, but I have in front of me the paper of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia", which is notified by the Ministry of Infrastructure and State Secretary, Mr. Aleksandr Cvetanovic, on a very fresh date, on 6 May 2009 – an application for urgent action to exercise the jurisdiction of road protection under Article 48 and Article 49. The Law on Public Roads states: “The Orderly Control, ” and the Law,“ 28. In April this year, at 6:15 p.m. on the territory of Smederevo municipality at the Smederevo payment ramp in the presence of the traffic police, it was found that ‘Holeman Transport’ DOO from Belgrade, the opposite solution’, then the number of solutions, ‘issued by JP ‘Serb Roads’, the tow vehicle of the registration mark’, is not important now to read, ‘connected vehicle’, is not an important number of tables, ‘for the transport of the working machine significantly overloaded the permitted axle load and the gauge of vehicles, and the excess based on the maximum mass is as much as 20 tonnes and 450 kilograms. “ What did he do? He made the record under number 208587: "The unauthorized transport listed, contrary to the conditions in the issued solution, 'Holeman Transport' DOO and the responsible person, the director, tried to steal the state budget worth thousands of euros", it found that JP "The Ways of Serbia", "hested and damaged buildings and August construction times worth tens of thousands of euros, threatened traffic security and left the place of exclusion of the vangabarit cargo concerned". So they shut it down when they were in control, he set the truck on fire and with the cargo fled to Kosovo. A company like that doesn't have to work here anymore. Such a company has done damage to the state and such a company and today works within its jurisdiction and receives CEMT's permission from the ministry. The merger for this company is Demir Hadzic. But in order not to talk so that this looks like I'm loaded with individuals, I have to give you the following information. I'll start chronologically, and that's about the CEMT licenses. I have a 2009 list and a 2008 list. When I compared the company's size. The companies got how many licenses on which number of trucks, clearly it's about manipulation. I'm not going to say now that there's been a breach, that the licenses were revoked without being withdrawn, so customs detected an irregularity, so they wrote you a memo that the licenses were cancelled in application, that some of the owners of the truck were reporting to the MUP that their licenses had been stolen, that their trucks had been robbed, and those permits were in transit. The monopoly thus works quite well, especially in those companies that officially negotiate on behalf of the driver with the ministry, and this table shows that they have a priority. In addition to the claim that a monopoly is telling the fact that those with few trucks have more permits, and those with multiple trucks have no licenses. Then trade between them must go so that it knows who can drive across Croatia, so it goes out to Europe and who doesn't. I'll document it for you now. For comparison and for the sake of the public, I will tell you only one thing, for example, because the table is a little dense: the concert "Serboexport" DOO, Belgrade, Obrenovac, Zabrežje, received six more permits than in 2008; "MB Transcop" DOO, Novi Slankamen; "MB Transfrigo", Novi Slankamen; "MB Trans", Novi Slankamen, compared to last year they got less. "MB Transcopy" DOO, Slankamen - three licenses less, "MB Transfrigo", Novi Slankamen - received eight licenses less (now has by category of vehicle E3, E4) and "MB Trans", Novi Slankamen (so these are all licenses that have been changed) - he got two licenses less. On the other hand, Malešić Transport from Ruma received seven more permits; "Partner Trans", Novi Sad - last year received eight permits, and this year 16, so double. I also have to see this difference, that on 38 trucks the total "Partner trans" got 16 permits, so eight more compared to last year. Why? Because "Partner trans", Mr. Mandic, a participant in an agreement with the ministry that licenses will be shared. He got his company eight licenses over and then everyone else didn't matter. Now I'm going to document it, because he has vehicles E4, E3, 11 and 27, so, a total of 38 trucks, and he got 16 permits, while, on the other hand, "Serboexport trans" from Obrenovac has 98 trucks, and he only got nine permits, and 16 licenses got the last time. So, that manipulation exists, Mr. Minister, whether you want to agree to it or not. What matters to me is: "Unitrag" DOO, Užice, "Pizon", and a larger number of trucks, he received 16, this year 15 and last year 6, and this year 7 for Užice and Belgrade; although there are 44 trucks together, he received a total of 15 permits. So that I don't waste my time reading this, I can deliver this to you, and I assume you have this, too. This is proof to you that the monopoly regarding the permit is still in effect. But I don't blame you for that, Minister. You know that when the exchange of CEMT license, the Ministry has the right to have 3% split aside. You know, when the software you use at the Ministry was changed, two and a half months were frozen state for individual CEMT permits. You know the situation well. To stay out of your business right now, I'm telling you that we're going to oversee the further development of the CEMT license in 2010, especially for those companies that got CEMT licenses, and they're not longer than three years in the business register, and there are. You have a company that's been in the business register for two months, and it's got a CEMT license. It can't. That I would not take anyone's bread out of my mouth, because the economic situation in the country is so bad that even those who have a CEMT permit have nothing to drive and where, but are saved by... They have to return the loans they took for vehicles to comply with the standards, because trucks in Europe cannot be over six years old. Huge loans were taken and driven for Romanians, for Bulgarians, and I don't know what relations, all outside our country. That's how they save themselves, that's how they try to preserve infrastructure and survive this economic crisis. If you make a monopoly, that whoever has 50 trucks gets five licenses, and whoever has 10 trucks gets 15, it makes sense that they'll have to be changed, but those changes cost money. I have here a record of police administrations, which reported the theft of a CEMT license that appeared at the border. I'll give you the license number. So, days 30. 3. A meeting of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport was held in 2009. Transport representative, in light of the growing irregularities observed in the work documentation presented by the transporters to the Ministry... It's that strike with the blockage from SIV to Arena. On this occasion, on the basis of an oral order from the minister, a commission (without any official solution on forming) is formed from the part of the carrier; I have cited what carriers are, therefore, close to the head of the cabinet of Snezana Zekovic. The commission brings the record, which I own here, on the basis of which the Secretary of the Ministry of Slavoljub Vukicevic gives a written order to the employees of the Ministry's department to delete existing requirements for the distribution of permits, so it is contrary to the ZUP, to re-distribute the annual distribution of permits to transporters; thereby creating a legal basis for the part of the previously issued permits to remain in the possession of carriers. So that's what's obvious. This makes up the first part of the divided annual licences to be doubled, spare copies are issued, and the originals, already divided and not withdrawn from use, remain with the carrier. To warn the abuses, the department he's running and who's been reporting to the secretary of the international conference CEMT on replaced permits, there's a contribution here to what it looks like... I must point out that the report is only sent to the secretariat, and all member states are about to follow the changes on the site. That's a bit of a problem, because the guy at Customs can't run to watch the site and see what the license looks like. However, since the crossover of EU borders has been simplified, the use of a replacement permit is, in the view of those who have granted the replacement, extremely trivial, because almost no customs officer at the border crossing is checking the CEMT Secretariat's website. That makes sense. The aim of such a multiplication permit was to create more permits than regular and offer and distribute to carriers. On the other hand, knowing the existence of the report, they felt that the regularity of the issue of reserve licences was not questionable. Thus, redistribution was repeated and solutions were reissued in the administrative procedure. However, the warrant now appears, by fax sent from the cabinet of the minister, I don't know if you know about this fax, that the permits that have been withdrawn to the carriers who are excluded from the distribution (I also have this contribution to give you, which are carriers) based on incorrectly presented data on the rolling stock, are issued to companies not listed in qualified enterprises. I also have that contribution, if you need it, I'll give it to you. Among the companies on the list are even a company that is only two months in the carrier register. The company is called "Vektura", Belgrade. People come for CEMT licenses because they're told to report and make demands for the same. I have this request here, a copy, I'll give it to you after the discussion. As an irregularity has been identified, predicting suspected illegalities, individual ministry employees, who have been removed, refuse to give a solution. Then comes the new idea of members of the commission and Mrs Zekovic, which is to allow replacements among carriers, the company's firm. I own here the demands of these companies, who made a request for permission to whom and who informed the Ministry. I note that under the Law on international transport in road transport, licences are intolerable, i.e. It can't be passed on to a third person. Carriers qualify for certain permits by their route of work and it is impossible for someone who works exclusively in Italy to replace permits with someone who works Greece. This goes so far that the originals are not taken from the carrier, but are issued as replaced by the original. That contribution and the tripling of individual permits I have in hand and I will deliver it to you. Of course, the behaviour and activities of the carrier and the work of the ministry are recognised as, we can say freely, criminally by the neighbouring states and the CEMT Secretariat, because they reacted. Warnings from neighbouring countries and CEMT secretariats are beginning, first warnings from our neighbouring countries and then European ones. All warnings present evidence of abuses of licenses with the same numbers, permits which have been published as lost and the permits reported in our report as destroyed. So this is a manipulation that exposes the entire functioning of individuals in the Ministry. It is asked by the state authority which has issued permits to take urgent action (I hope you will inform me which actions have been taken by the Ministry), procedures and measures to prevent further repetition of abuses. Furthermore, an emergency report is required, which was our obligation under the assumed right of participation in CEMT, to determine in the Ministry what measures will be taken against the perpetrators of the offence. They recommend, in this respect, full application of the CEMT resolution, which is a ban on access to such CEMT licences for at least two years. I don't know what the Ministry's reaction was, and I'd be happy if you could give me an answer to that. At the annual meeting of the CEMT Working Group in Paris on 10 December 2009, which our delegation was not accidentally sent to, even the representative of the Serbian Embassy in Paris was not present, following several publicly addressed criticisms from a pay phone from the Republic of Hungary, Croatia, Germany, the measure of the state of Serbia is being set. The measure is the ten-piece I've got. An urgent report is required on what was taken according to perpetrators of the violations during 2009. For the next year, 2010 requires, for the first time and only Serbia, in relation to all the other members, to issue a report on who, with the name of the company, has issued a permit, who has issued and with which restriction it has issued a travel log accompanying the CEMT permit and with which corresponding number of the diary page. So complete documentation is required of Serbia. I must underline the fact that this measure by the state of Serbia is one step away from Romania's syndrome, which is reflected in the fact that, following repeated errors by Romanian authorities, the CEMT Secretariat decided that, directly Paris, as the CEMT administrative centre, granted permits to Romanian carriers. It is, we must all agree, a huge slap for Romania, but the same slap follows Serbia, if the report on the abuses of businesses they have done is not sent to the CEMT Secretariat in Paris. It can be concluded that the measure taken towards the Republic of Serbia deeply degrades, degrades and compromises the country's status, which was just a few years ago one of the six countries (of 42 members) selected in the CEMT working group's sub-group to promote, innovate and propose a ministerial conference of its proposals. From this order, the CEMT Secretariat has so far done nothing and nothing has been launched. On the contrary, knowing of the measure set for Serbia, part of the carrier with the cabinet chief is taking action to repeat the same procedure this year. Therefore, Minister, I ask you to engage in these events, because you are the successor of these actions, although Mrs Zekovic has come along with you, to examine the credibility of these allegations, to check the facts recorded and archived in the premises of the Ministry of Infrastructure, SIV 3, New Belgrade. For all further clarifications, I will be available to you. Taking into account that Nedjo Mandzic, "Partner Trans", and Dejan Tomaševic, "MB Trans", and all others who were members of the Commission and who negotiated on behalf of the drivers went well in the distribution of the CEMT licence... I don't want to appoint others, so that there are no abuses in the next assignment, because this is the state of Serbia, but I ask you, Minister, that you carefully comb the table with the number of unlicensed permits, so that the companies that abuse our own state and our budget and our paths are severely punished, that this Romanian firm that I have listed to you, which lobbyist support has found at Demir Hadzic's, "Holeman Transport", must be punished. If I get any other concrete data on abuses and damage to Serbia's budget, "The Path of Serbia", because this record has been working, the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia", not the MPs of the SRS... I will always, on behalf of the SRS, give you support for any kind of law that follows the trends of solving and regulating the granting of CEMT permits and solving the transport problems in our premises. Until then, until these problems are solved, I won't wait for the new ones to be created, so I'm going to ask you in writing to let me know, if that's possible on this kind request of mine, what have you done in this discussion of mine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37540	Thank you. Twenty minutes and ten seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The minister has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37541	This was an amendment to Article 7, if I understood correctly. You were talking about some things that had nothing to do with the amendment. Your amendment is to put the ministry in charge instead of – the minister in charge – jurisdiction, but you yourself are ultimately denying yourself for half an hour. Now you're asking to support this problem, and here you're criticizing the Ministry's work, but that's the second point. We refused. Why? Because the solution set out in the draft law is in accordance with Article 23(2). The State Administration Act, which has been prescribed that the minister adopts regulations and solutions in administrative and other individual matters. So much for the amendment. I understand this story of yours as the marketing of your party, which has a former minister, who could explain to you how the ministries work in these cases. I'll just set two things aside. First, as minister, I have the right to choose my associates and defend them. All the lies you've told against my associates serve you honorably. You're a young man and a shame on you. Secondly, no one in the Ministry has ever responded, nor has there been any disciplinary reports. That's another lie. Thirdly, as long as I am a minister, I will take care of the interest of the Serbian economy. I'm responsible for everything that's going on here. You file every application you have against me, and the carriers are honest, honest people. The division you're trying here in a perfidious way to launch doesn't exist. These are the people I communicate with week and day, alone, not through one of these people, my associates that you were talking about. Because I'm protecting their interest, I think it's done well in 2010, which you're not talking about, and in 2009, when there weren't any of these problems you're talking about, I don't know what period the government was working on. I'm saying none of these carriers have abused anything. Personally, every young businessman who starts to do this hard work I approve, exactly, from that 3% you're talking about, and find a carrier who has a relationship with me and who I communicate with in the way you're talking about. This second part you've brought out, taking it as a cheap political marketing of your party, please leave it to me; and on Monday, tomorrow or Sunday, you can go to the Ministry, whenever you want, to explain yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37542	Thank you, Minister, I'd just like to ask that, regardless of your temperament, which we respect, you still have to compare the dictionary a little bit. I don't see that there have been offensive words on the other side, and political marketing is, my God, we're in the Assembly, and it's an integral part of the lively discussion that's being held. Mr. Avramovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37543	Mr. Carrot, I don't understand your kind of nervousness at all. This is proof that my amendment is right. In order not to accuse you, I have accused the Ministry you inherited. I wasn't talking... If you have personal sympathy and emotions for Mrs. Zekovic, I will not go into it, it is your private creation, but I have given you the name and name of the enterprises that have committed abuse, based on the minutes of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia". It is not the Serbian Radical Party invented it and it is not a party promotion. This is a record that I am prepared to make available to you, it is no longer a secret; I have read the record of what is damaged in the state of Serbia. If that's the problem, you won't accept what's damaged, as kind of your inability to exercise control at the Ministry, that's another question. You have no right to be angry with me for telling the truth, that's my right. As for the division of the driver and that you worked in the interest of the driver, I have no doubt that you will work, but the monopoly that exists in the Ministry for the last ten years cannot be eradicated by your arrival of half a year or a year. You must be aware that you are not alone, so the minister should not represent the ministry. If you want the minister to represent the ministry, then answer for the Ministry's abuses. I accused the individuals and told them at the beginning that I wouldn't cheer for any electricity within the Ministry, which is so much so that Tesla couldn't handle it either. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, the data I've given you is so transparent, and I've offered you this insight to overcome this problem and solve it, not to attack you. It is the purpose of this amendment, to fence you from this, but since you want to be responsible for the ministry's work, then it is your direct fault that the Romanian firm has done damage in Serbia, because you have put yourself in that context, to defend drivers. The regulation prohibits a person and company who has been out of the register for three years from having the same rights as a company that has been in the register for 15 years. You can force whoever you want. It's your personal right, every minister who comes to your post. And that minister before you, and the one before, they all had their vision and they all had their regions from which they came, and priorities. It's not a side effect anymore. I told you you had double permits. There's evidence for these double permits. I've got documentation that the CEMT Secretariat sent you a memo saying that they're angry that you've got double licenses. They will ask you for Romanian syndrome and will implement the situation he has implemented in Romania – that they will be responsible for the distribution of these permits, not you. That's why I wanted to protect your ministry, not attack you. That's why I don't understand your anxiety. I repeat again, if you want to solve problems, let me talk to you in an argument. I've given you the number of solutions, the number of suggestions, the number of memos, and I've even suggested that I give you all of them. You accused me of lying because I told the truth. Did the company get 164,000 euros in court because your ministry granted permission to cabotage transformers? How could you give (not you, but your ministry) permission to cabotage a foreign factor when there is a domestic who can drive it? You can be mad at me, but it's true. That's one thing. The second thing is, if the Romanian company, which was founded in Belgrade, which is driven by BG tables, has charged 300,000 euros and some euros from the Cypriot government because there is no payment traffic between Serbia and them, via Romania, and is driving Belgrade, Serbian, whichever roads you want and has been determined by inspection that it has exceeded the axle load of over 20 tonnes, and the gauge, not to speak, has done damage to both the tax and the times and everything else, and you say I am wrong... So if you're sensitive to Mrs. Zekovic, I don't want to go into it, respect you as a neighbor, but if you're sensitive to their money, or something I didn't even mention here, or prove it, or want to argue about it, that's another question. I'm telling you, if there's a repeat practice in 2010 that CEMT licenses are shared in the way they were shared, that by means of software that a fifth person maintains, you make a selection, a vacuum, who can get a license and who can't, or by means of an invalidated license that you didn't withdraw or by means of an enterprise that reported to the MUP that his license was stolen, what are you going to do with that company? Will you take any action against this company? After all, what are you going to send to the CEMT Secretariat in Paris as a report? They asked you to, it wasn't the Serbian Radical Party. Why would the CEMT Secretariat ask you if everything was legal? Why would he threaten you with Romanian syndrome if everything was going well? Is it the marketing of Serbian Radical Party or Marketing Ministry, which does not know who was given the license, or does he know who was given the license, but won't admit it? That's the essence of my discussion. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, don't take it personally, but my amendment had a role to protect you from individuals in the Ministry. Just because you brought some counselors doesn't mean they're good to everyone. Maybe they're good to you and maybe you're doing a good job. We're just gonna grade that. CEMT licenses are a problem in every country. And CPC licenses are a problem in every country. On the Auto-Moto Alliance site, we have a CPC license and a full study of how much it costs and how drivers should be educated. The CPC license in Europe hasn't been requested yet. Who's gonna control that? The SRS or the competent ministry? If you've found yourself called, I'm glad, it's just proof that I'm right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37544	You've received a kind invitation to bring in all the documents, to speak to the minister, and I thank you both for that. We're going back to the agenda. Members of the 10th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milan Dimitrijevic. The word is Mr. Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37545	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If you agree, since this is the same amendment, I will also talk about our amendment to Article 10 and Article 11. Of course, I won't talk later. It is two members who define the authorisation procedure by speaking in Article 10 about the issue of these permits, individual and time permits. Article 11 refers to the allocation, i.e. the allocation of foreign licences. We asked for a new attitude to be entered into both members. Article 10 states: “The Ministry of Traffic Affairs is obliged to call a public competition in due time for the issue of individual and time permits for the following year,” with Article 11. I happen to know this matter, the problem of issuing permits is the greater problem. It's been going on for as long as such permits exist. It is also related to many of our bilateral and multilateral relations with other countries, on the one hand. On the other hand, there's always less permission than there are interested. By the logic of things, someone will always be damaged. It is therefore very important that the entire authorisation procedure be open and transparent to the end. In this context, we have also proposed a public competition, in which, of course, the Ministry can also specify precise conditions, rules of play, etc., all of what those interested in obtaining permits may be interested. Of course, it also gives the possibility to those who think they are damaged because they did not get the permission or the number of permits they asked for; then they can, referring to that competition, eventually determine that something was wrong or that they were damaged, etc. I don't think this is something that in any way complicates the procedure that the Ministry normally has to implement. I think it's correct for a public competition to appear. After all, you know, I can become from today to tomorrow a new carrier, I don't have to be familiar with all the rules of the game, and then it's my right to know what the rules of the game are and to be warned on time. I expected our amendment to Article 10 and the amendment to Article 11 (practically the same, both in terms of and with the idea) to be accepted. A little while ago, a colleague from the Ministry told me they had a problem, that they were going to be late in some sense. It is understood that what we are about to write will apply to next year; for this year, it is likely that the licensing procedures are already started, perhaps even completed, in the largest number, so it is understood that this applies for 2011, before it can be applied. However, I ask you to consider accepting this amendment. We have another amendment, it's practically the consequence of this amendment that I was talking about earlier, and there's no need to explain it specifically. Since I have no intention of answering any more, allow me just a few more sentences. I also said in the debate in principle, this is a correct law. It is in a certain way and extorted by having to accept those rules of play that apply in our environment, i.e. in Europe. Traffic and transport do not know the limits and it is clear that the alignment of these rules of the game, which so far for understandable reasons is not in line, is in some way our obligation. In that sense, I think that, with these repairs brought by the amendment of my fellow MPs (I hope you will also accept these), it is an entirely correct and acceptable law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37546	Thank you, Mr. Shami. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Mr. Lightning has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37547	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, this is one, I would say, an easier amendment and I hope that, if you listen carefully to the explanation of this amendment, you will accept the same. In fact, we asked that Article 19, paragraph 1, “the Federal ” be replaced by the word“ Republic. ” We have often stated here in the congregation debate that sometimes someone who is involved in writing the text of the bill does so by copying certain parts of some of the earlier regulations. It happened sometimes that the termology used in certain draft laws that come here in the congregation procedure was even unadjusted to Serbian, that the termology did not correspond to Serbian, that it was taken over from the language of some other peoples, and that there were good and adequate terms in Serbian that could be used. I am not saying that this is a case, far from that, but it has happened in one member that the fines from 400,000 to 750,000 dinars will be fined by a domestic or foreign car carrier if, now, I quote: "it is carrying out international public transport of passengers without permission for international public transport issued by the federal authority responsible for traffic operations". Mr. Minister, honestly thinking that this is an unintended mistake, we have submitted the amendment not to stand "the federal authority", because it is no longer there, but a "republic body", which only exists and that is the only appropriate term in this case. However, the argument given by the government really goes beyond that tolerance threshold that says that it may be accidental or that it may be a mistake. The government says the amendment is not accepted for reasons of Celebrity, beware, "because new laws are being prepared to regulate international transport in road transport, and in which, among other things, appropriate terminology will be applied." With this explanation, Mr. Minister, the promoter simply underestimates reality, underestimates sound logic. I don't think whoever wrote this really needs the opposition very much. Be careful, for reasons of generality, it was difficult to change the word “national ” into“ republican ”! It's really a little unusual, but good, what's there. So why, for example, in Article 15(5), did you replace the word “Yugoslavic ” with the word “Serbian ”? Or why, for example, did you predict in point 12 that a foreign carrier carrying out international line or extra-line transport would be prohibited from moving on the roads of the Republic of Serbia against the provisions of this law? How could it be predicted here - on the roads of the Republic of Serbia, and not something else? So somewhere it can say "the federal," and that, as you say, will be changed to some other regulations when other laws are passed. However, not then, accept this amendment and the word "state" simply replace the word "republic". It's the only possible in this case. You, Mr. Minister, are the one who knows best when it's better to do something right now. This is where we need to do it right now. You're a man who knows very well that it's always better three hours before the deadline than one minute after the deadline. So, Mr. Minister, delete this "the federal" and put "republic", as it should be, so that we are all satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-19-0.u37548	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly has concluded a debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 85(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Tuesday 23 March 2010, starting at 12.00 hours, as the day for voting on the agendas of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Thank you for your cooperation and have a nice weekend. I invite you to be exact on Tuesday. Thank you.
