ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e24	Since the increase in the legal fee has been specifically addressed on the basis of Ot.prp. No.10, I find it in place to make some comments in line with what I said during the treatment of the Justice Budget earlier in December. I have been looking at the evolution of the amount of the trial fee since the 1993 budget, and I find that there has been a variable increase – a relatively small increase of 10 kroner until it was 15 kroner last year, it was not an increase, until we reach the large increase this year, which is 70 kroner. This is a significant increase, representing revenue to the country of 145 million. kr. This increase shall include, inter alia: to the collection of increased pay for judges, the development of a new system of procedure before the courts of first and second instance, and an increase in the remuneration of lawyers. Last year, a majority of the Judicial Committee, all except the Advance Party, prayed, ‘The Ministry of Justice shall examine to what extent the amount of the legal fee may have an exclusive effect on the ability of some persons to avail themselves of the judicial system’. The Ministry of Justice came back in the budget proposal this year, with a quite thorough review of the scheme and its impact. The Ministry's conclusion is that: ‘The amount of the legal fee appears to be limited to excluding citizens’ opportunities to avail themselves of the legal system’. This conclusion has been taken into account by the majority and is in favour of the proposed increase. At the same time, we ask the Ministry to follow closely the developments in order to really identify the consequences of the increase, possibly to confirm that the department's conclusion is in place. I assume that one at next year's government budget will comment on this again. The reason why the Workers' Party finds it necessary to take this up again is that we've got input into the Workers' Party, which doesn't make me absolutely sure that the Department's conclusion is necessarily the right one. If that is the case, it is extra bad seen in relation to the purposes I initially mentioned the fee increase, among other things. must go to. I assume that the Council of State and the majority of the Committee have the same intentions as regards the function and effect of the legal fee in the Norwegian judicial system, and that the thickness of each individual’s wallet should have no influence on the democratic right of individuals to take care of their interests in the Norwegian legal state.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e47	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 199]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e61	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 199]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e75	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 25 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and the representative Mikalsen 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a change of lines with up to three lines with replies after the contributions of the main speakers from each party group and after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e86	Lottery law has been widely discussed in the Judicial Committee and the parties which have shared the objective that the law should have the best possible content. This is primarily because the Lottery Act is a law that affects many people who have their work in teams, associations and organisations, but it also affects the interests of certain industries in certain areas. In addition, the law contains regulations around the customer circle, whether you're a small player or a big player on a winning machine or in a lotteries. And in that context, everyone has to recognize that it's the players that are the main source of income for many social organizations, teams and associations, and that's the way it's going to be in the future. Without those who volunteer to play through games, there would have been a bad deal for many interest groups, whether it's a national lottery or a local bamboo otter. The Committee assumes that there are many interests to be safeguarded in many areas of the law, and the Lottery Act must also have a clear design to that effect. It is therefore necessary to provide guidance on unambiguous legislative designs that do not provide the many possibilities for specific regulations that flourish today and create complications for the players covered by the Lottery Act. There is no doubt the greatest challenge here for responsible legislators and bureaucrats. Now it is true that this odelstningsproposition lacks some of the facts that are not mentioned but that the Judicial Committee has ensured that its comments are taken into account in the further consideration. For example, I can mention games on board ships and ferries and lottery tickets for the operation of local radio. An additional proposal with draft new legal text is expected to be sent back for treatment in Odelstinget, and for my part I hope it will come back in the first half of the new year of the new millennium. The Committee's comments form the basis for the return of the proposal to the Government for further processing and call for the promotion of new lottery laws in line with the position we are discussing today. As the rapporteur, I would like to touch on a number of aspects of the Lottery Act, and would like to focus on, and as a starting point, the views of the majority and the views of the Progress Party. The Committee sees that in the overall market there are not only private games but also government games. And everyone in the committee thinks it's important to see government and private games in the context. In the Progress Party, we believe, for our part, that both private games and state games should be equal and regulated within the same law. The restrictions proposed in the proposition are aimed only at private games, with the result that there is a high risk of market changes resulting from the loss of land by private games compared to public games. Initially, slot machines and state games have essentially the same market place. However, the Committee agrees that a lottery monitoring should be established. The disagreement arises as to whether a lottery ticket is to be created in addition. Here the Progress Party is alone, we do not want it to be a lottery of its own, which is also in line with the opinion of the Hearing Officers. But Komi teen agrees that a joint lottery supervision should be established for both private lotteries and state games. Furthermore, we believe that it is important that supervision should enforce common guidelines for all policy frameworks and standardised control procedures at all stages of the implementation of all types of lotteries. Therefore, the Committee will ask the Government to consider whether there should be common legislation for both private and state games and whether it is most appropriate to bring together all overall governance in one department. The Progress Party is the only party that concludes that we think it is best that this organization be placed under the Ministry of Justice. In particular, the Committee supports the tasks intended for the control of lotteries. The establishment of a central register of lotteries and the recognition of organisations, teams and associations by supervision shall be in the cards. We will also stress the obligation of the lottery inspectorate to carry out information activities and that supervision should also have a role which is important to point out in the public context – it should be a service body to those served. The progress party is towards the creation of a separate inspector's corps with 150 local inspectors on a national basis in so-called part-time exposures. A rolling agreement with external suppliers and the purchase of external services is preferable in our view. Furthermore, the Committee took note of the fact that the Government would not propose a separate board of directors for the supervision but a case-by-case board of directors. The Committee considers it important to have overall control over the follow-up of overall policy objectives. The size shall be the design of the regulatory framework and the Lottery Authority shall record and enforce the regulatory framework. The Party considers it particularly important that a separate board of directors be set up for the monitoring of lottery activities. The Management Board will be a forum that can be independent of the supervision itself and that can oversee operations. The composition of the Management Board may have different solutions. In the view of the Committee, increased competition in the market should not result in a more stringent practice as regards the assessment of who should have access to the lottery market than the practice in force today, without first being submitted to the Stortinget. Conditions must be provided to enable sports teams, associations, clubs and non-governmental organisations to continue their important functions, especially in the various districts, by allowing the lottery activities to continue whether they are small lotteries or vending machines. A minority would point out that current schemes favour State games, which, through active marketing, can attract additional market shares. The state games are many and have an increasing turnover. This is clearly a very serious competitor for the private lotteries and games. The Party considers that as long as an applicant is found to be lotteryd by the police and/or the lottery surveillance, there should be no requirement for absolute sales frameworks. It should be the individual keeper himself who establishes frames for the purpose of the lottery, whether it be traditional small lotteries or larger lotteries. This will also lead to simplified procedures for the approval authority. It's just a shame that in this area it's the Progress Party that's most liberal to private games. The Committee does not agree that the scope of lottery activities should be determined by the lottery supervisor in relation to the market share of organisations and other voluntary purposes before the Stortinget has also laid down here the framework and scope of the lottery market. The Committee does not wish to restrict the overall lottery market, but does so as a result of policy guidelines from the Stortinget. The Progress Party now believes that the time has come to consider the introduction of BingoLotto and that this should be seen in the context of the Lottery Act. In our opinion, BingoLotto is a mature introduction to Norway as well. We believe that such a game should be allowed in competition with the State games, when the aim is to strengthen the local voluntary cultural work. The party concerned disagrees with the introduction of market-based criteria as long as the applicant itself considers the market to be of interest. It is not necessary to provide that the authorisation authority should use public resources to test the needs and regulate the detail of the lottery. We don't want a roof on the number of vending machines that are deployed, as long as you stay in stores, kiosks, gas stations, etc. responsible for day-to-day supervision. We don't understand the argument that income can get so big that you have problems with consuming it. There are major shortcomings in the Norwegian welfare community today that money can find its way to. There's no problem, so we don't share the department's concerns in the area that too much money can come in. We would also stress that all non-governmental organisations working in the field of health and rehabilitation in the country can today apply for funds for defined projects. It is important to confirm that organisations should continue to have the possibility to receive funding from the Extra game for different projects. I am also thinking about the conditions surrounding the Extra game, for other issues relating to rehabilitation, and that there is no legislation that disapproves of the possibility these people have today of getting funding for given rehabilitation projects in the area of health and social affairs. One of the major discussions has also been the distribution of turnover. The Committee's view in this area is that the profit share remains at least 25 pst. today, and giving the most freedom to organisations and, if they wish, raising the profit rate. The Committee therefore does not support the working group's wish to practise a limit of 15 pst for lottery tickets. in operating costs and 50 pst. in winnings. Such general practice would seem unreasonable and could result in the closure of the lotteries of different organisations. We see it as important that as much effort as possible goes to the ideal purpose for which the lots are sold, but the rules must be such that different humanitarian and social organisations have the chance to compete with the state games and lotteries, such as Norsk Tipping and Norsk Rikstoto. We propose that the minimum requirement for the profit share of the national lotteries should be kept unchanged at 25 p.m. Another issue that has also been discussed in the Committee is the setting of age limits. There are three underlying options. The majority want 18 years, the Right wants 16 years, and the Advance Party wants there to be no age limit because we don't want any discrimination between state and private games. For the state games today, there's no age limit, just so it's said. The Committee cannot see the existence of satisfactory research in Norway as regards the development of gambling addiction. The ministry is constantly expressing this with gambling addiction and putting too much emphasis on it, and one is aware that we do not have research results today that show the extent of gambling addiction in Norway. Combating gambling dependence must be based on research results and not on visualisation. It does not speak for the benefit of private lottery organizations. The Progress Party opposes the introduction of the age limit for gambling, so that the same conditions apply to private games as to state games. We would like to stress the importance of distinguishing between controlled leisure activities and what can be described as some people’s problem of gambling dependence. Problems may arise in relation to gambling addiction, regardless of whether there are private lotteries or state games. We would like to point out that there is no legal basis today that prevents children from wagering their pocket money on state games about money. It is very important to point out that scientific knowledge needs to be developed with credibility about the issue of gambling addiction before it can be seen that there is an increase in gambling dependence. We believe that the question in that case applies not only to private games, but also to state games. The Party considers that the regulation of 28 August 1998 imposes unnecessary requirements leading to excessive costs. What I am looking for is the replacement of approx. 25 000 auto feeds at an average price of NOK 50000. This will amount to approximately NOK 1.3 billion for the industry. The Committee considers this to be unreasonable. There is very much doubt that organisations are in charge of such impositions as the new regulation here requires. The main reason for such a requirement has been the criticism of people’s gambling addiction by the Ministry. The part of progress is doubtful about such characteristics without a credible investigation, investigation or analysis of the so-called problem. It also has to be seen in relation to the benefits that slot machines represent, the joy the public can experience in games, even if it's private lotteries and games we're talking about. With this I would like to address the minority proposal, which is set out in the setting. The minority proposal is the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e135	Jørn L. Stang has taken up the suggestion he himself referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e140	It is strange that the Progress Party, which in this room is a specialist in providing dramatic examples of how terrible it is in the Kingdom, is unable to see problems with gambling addiction and has no examples to show. There's a lot of them. And if you had only made an enquiry to those who are involved in treatment, the representative Stang would be able to confirm some of the problem here in Norway as well. But the Progress Party is taking a different approach to the problem. They say they don't want any age limit, they don't want any roof on the number of vending machines that are outsourced, and they want to open up for casinos and introduce BingoLotto. It can't be the answer to the challenge we're facing – it only has to be if you don't understand where the problem is. Now the party trap of the representative, Mr. Stang. Simonsen, formerly today described the government's support players in this assembly as servous "cosy animals". I want to be careful to describe someone, even though the idea of something in Scripture is quite nearby. There was a snake that bit someone in the foot so that they would be spoiled by the poison they got. However, I do not want to describe the Progress Party as such.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e147	Otherwise the president will also be careful to describe others with expressions, but if it has hold in Scripture, it can certainly be justified.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e150	I'm not going to go into saying if there's hold in Scripture to make such claims. But I wonder at this statement by the Christian People's Party, which I actually thought had the same starting point as the Progress Party, namely that they would have the same conditions for state games as for those behind private games and lotteries, precisely because we know how important these revenues are to private organisations, teams and associations in terms of the efforts they make both humanitarianly and in other areas, and that includes Christian organisations – if it were to help the representative to have a different position. In the case of gambling addiction — if you think it is so important to focus on it despite the fact that there is not enough research in Norway today, but that you rely on research from abroad — it is just a question of who can be characterised as ‘game dependent’ or ‘game mad’, in order to use a more popular expression. And that there should be some difference between Norway and other European countries in that area, I am very doubtful about that. With that as a starting point, and the other thing I have said, we don't see it as crucial that the number of vending machines – that's 25 000 – should be fixed. If the organizations themselves think they need income for good purposes, I think they should have the opportunity to go beyond the ceiling that the Christian People's Party is trying to continue. I also wonder at the views of the Christian People's Party, because if they think that so many suffer from gambling madness, they should propose, in the name of propriety, the introduction of a total ban on all games, because there is no difference between paying 1 DKK or 10 kroner on government games versus the corresponding amount on private games.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e161	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e164	While the Stortinget puzzles with some minor changes in the lotterilova, our evenings become filled with more and more stupid lotto, bingo and scratch lottery programs for the gamblers and licensee's account, wrote the Evening Post in an article on Saturday 11 December. That for the evening post, it's puzzled what we've asked the government to come back with, to take care of the evening post. For the Workers' Party, there's a lot of big things we've asked the Government to deal with, that's the debt, etc. to assess what are humanitarian and societal objectives, whether there should be a lottery law in the future for both private organisations and state games, and whether we need to have a review of the state playing its place in a common market. Yes, it's part of the many things a collecting committee has asked to get back to the Stortinget. The Committee has also asked for an assessment of the number of government games in relation to the private humanitarian and social organisations that can be offered to the people. The Labour Party wants to have a political leadership on how many games and lotteries the TV companies can market and sell their channels through. We don't want the "scraper in the sofa hook" to grow, as we see today's trends. Everything on Wednesday night starts what finally peaks at Saturday night. We do not want to prioritize so that the most important thing in the leisure time of the Norwegian people will be to follow in whether we have won the big lot, or have been a different millionaire as a lottobillionaire. There is no doubt that after the 1994 Lottery Act, we have had an explosion of state games, and not least a large, uncontrollable slot machine market. For most people, this is incomprehensible, and many people prefer that we ban most. They do not understand that the Red Cross and the Rescue Company’s old “knipsekassar” are not happy, where one sends a crown or two after the shopping tour at the store or on board a ferry in a forgotten Western fjord, where everyone felt that it was a good thing, and they were all content with their own efforts and the work of the organizations. And if we look back to 1994, it was quiet about this business as long as the serious, nation-wide organizations were alone in the market. The Committee points out that it is important to clarify the overarching objectives of gambling market regulation. It is important to have regulated the private gambling market, and, as I said, it should be considered whether the State also should be subject to the same law. The Committee considers it important that a lottery monitoring should be established, as requested by the Stortinget in Innst. O. No 9 for 1994-95. The deposit will now give the Government the power to implement this establishment and to decide on the location at the same time. The Committee only reiterates that it should not be established in the same locality as Norsk Typing today is administered from at Hamar. For the Labour Party, it is important that we have an open and controllable gambling market, where we see that the funds recorded go to the humanitarian and social tasks, and that we can control those who operate in this market, whether it is the local owner or the entrepreneur, who is the helper for all the different organisations, or the good purpose. This will be the main task of the new lottery commission. The Ministry is now authorised to organise the implementation and, when the Stortinget receives the new law for handling and it is agreed, the lottery inspection should also be operational. At the same time, in the Labour Party, we will protect children and young people from playing about money until they are 18 years old. In Norway, we have not today regulated any age limit by law, and the Labour Party, with the majority in the Committee, wants this regulated for the future. We have also asked that it be assessed whether it should be introduced age limit also for state games where the prize is in the form of money. For the Labour Party, as I said, it is important to protect children and young people from becoming gambling addicts at an early age, and the Working Party therefore sees a greater need for control and guidance for those who are involved in this market. As mentioned above, the lottery market has grown enormously since the Stortinget opened up to local social organisations in 1994. We look at the amount of letters, e-mails and phone calls we have received to the Committee and as individual members, there are many voluntary teams and organisations in our country working at different levels of voluntary teamwork, which depend on getting funds to do it through the ATM market. As a result, the Committee wishes to return to the Stortinget for debate as to what is a lottery purpose. The Committee has set up a number of posts in relation to the priorities for the work of the nation-wide organisations and other voluntary organisations, both humanitarian and social. The Labour Party sees the great value of what these organizations are doing for their own countrymen, but also in the wake of disasters and famines, and both in front, during and after wars internationally, an enormous effort is being made to facilitate the presence of people in distress. In addition, the Labour Party wants sport to be aligned with all voluntary work aimed at children and young people in the fields of culture and leisure. The Storting has previously asked the Government to assess the launch of BingoLotto linked to the market sharing between private and state games. This has not been assessed in the proposal for a law that Stortinget has for its handling, and that is also one of the reasons why the bill is sent back to new handling. For the Workers' Party, it is important that income from any BingoLotto can be distributed between the voluntary and humanitarian organisations and, where appropriate, that one finds out how to reduce the need for automatic receipts. The working party is aware that today’s total automatic market will not grow, rather be reduced, and that it also wants the best possible means to be distributed for the purpose. This is also the background to the fact that the Labour Party wishes to evaluate a state-owned entrepreneurship company that can provide assistance to all teams and organisations to deploy and service the machines and control the funds. In this case, any surplus in the company should apply to the voluntary organisations. I think of Finland, which has such a system, and which has also received approval through the EU system as a legal entity. The Committee has pointed out and asked for the Government to take a closer look at all games offered on the Internet today in the context of a re-examination of the lottery. It is difficult to regulate an international market, but Norway should work towards common international rules in this area. In the meantime, we should look at how we can secure people through card usage and gaming accounts and protect children, so that they can't access the web. A large committee theme has been the design of the machines. The Department has asked for a change to be made to new machines that no longer have the same game appeal to users, in order to reduce the game problem between people. With these new rules, it seems that there is evidence that one will not record the same amount of funds. The majority of the Committee therefore points out that the most important thing in the design of new regulations is the use of money, gain and silence. In addition, Komi teen is also busy with these slot machines being set up so that they can be controlled, even if they are located next to the local buyer, in the gas booth, in the big centre or in the cinema room. The committee is very sceptical about the use of arcades and arcades, as they are described in the proposition, but has said that we do not object to the concept being tested. In the Labour Party, we are afraid of creating an environment that can be a meeting place for gambling and petty criminals and for illegal drug trafficking. I noticed that the Drammen City Board for a while didn't want gambling halls in its city. The Labour Party has noted the letter sent by former Minister of Justice Aure on 5 February 1998 on casino operations. It was stated that the Government would assess this after the development of the legislation and a lottery monitoring had been completed. With this in mind, the Labour Party of the Government is asking for an assessment of casino operations in Norway and to return to Stortinget in connection with the assessment of the total gaming and automatic market. Any surplus of this activity should be allocated to voluntary organisations and thus reduce the level of revenue from slot machines. In the past, the Committee has pointed out in several respects that ships and ferries leaving between Norwegian and foreign ports should generally be allowed to operate under equivalent international conditions. One of them is to be able to offer games on machines and in casinos. In the past, Stortinget has opened for dispensation in relation to today's lottery laws. This has been practiced by the Ministry, not without problems for the companies concerned. The Committee therefore calls for derogations to be made to the laws governing this operation and for it to be annexed to international terms and conditions to be amended. For the Workers' Party, it is important to safeguard the jobs and to advertise good Norwegians at the same time through the marketing carried out by these companies. This provides ring-tone effects both for hotels and other tourist attractions. As I said, there is a joint committee asking for a full review of the lotterilova and thus a wide-ranging debate on who is lottery, and that the state must adapt to a common market and exercise its activity with the same ethics and control that we demand that all those operating in voluntary and humanitarian organisations should do. The government has got a big job from Stortinget, but I'm going to say that it's a value question of the big how we clean up at the moment so badly regulated gambling market. This should be a matter which the Government accepts with the greatest joy, in order to have equal rules of play and at the same time to give equal relations to those who run this market, and also to make demands for control. It will give those who drive seriously today new strength and at the same time make the same demand for all. This is how I hope that the Storting will not get a new draft bill that will clean up in the conditions we see these businesses struggling with today, and that ordinary people don't quite like the evolution of.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e203	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e207	Short to 18-year-olds. I can't believe that the Workers' Party may think that there is a difference between a Norwegian and a Danish child or youth, because in Denmark there is no age limit, but it is up to the lottery itself to introduce a possible age limit, which is also added by the Advance Party. So the Labour Party does not want freedom there. I also want to discuss a different relationship. Traditionally, there have been three parties operating in a lottery relationship. It is the organisation/association, the contractor and the local owner. This tripartite ratio is particularly prominent in the operation of vending machines. The Labour Party says in its comment that they stand alone, that they want to «ship an owner-occupier company, e.g. on a line with the Finnish "Pension Association" providing the entrepreneurship services to teams and organisations. I want to ask the Workers' Party if they can clarify what they're really looking for in this area. Is it desirable that there should be no entrepreneurs on the market? It is for various reasons that there is a dependency between the actors. Organisations, associations and associations often need to use contractors, such as: arranges emptying and maintenance, has contact with the police for requests for a drawing permit, or with the future lottery control and agreement with the local authority. But the larger organizations that have been in the market for a long time tend to have their own entrepreneurship. So the Workers' Party's proposals will create problems for the small lotteries who depend entirely on entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e219	When it comes to young people in Scandinavia, I don't think there's any special difference between them, and I think they can be exactly the same game addicts. For this reason, it is important that some countries should be able to take the lead and show the way and say that we are taking care of our young people, and in order to avoid gambling dependence, we do not want them to be allowed to play on machines that give money as a win. And I would like to point out that if we don't like to compare ourselves with Sweden these days, Sweden, for example. an age limit of 18 years. So that's the background of the Workers' Party's 18-year limit. When it comes to entrepreneurship, I would say that it is a little surprising that the Progress Party, which wants to compete, is not part of that proposal, which is the basis for giving other entrepreneurship competition. It is also important to have serious contractors who exercise the services for those layers that are so small that they need help to deploy the machines, service them and empty the funds – there are actually trusted funds they hold on behalf of those who have outsourced the machines. Then I would like to refer to page 14 of the setting, because where actually the Progress Party points out that ‘the quality of the work of contractors, for example, has a direct impact on the size of the revenue generated by the purpose’. In other words, the Progress Party writes that there are some entrepreneurs who provide services to some small teams and organisations that do not have the quality they should have, in relation to the job they are trusted, simply to manage trusted resources for noble purposes. I think it's important that we manage to get a competition that in turn gives them the opportunity to choose an entrepreneur they trust.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e231	It is very important that a majority today say yes to the Government's proposal to introduce the 18-year limit for gambling on vending machines. We therefore recognise the need to protect children and young people from the possibility of developing gambling addiction. When this has come up as a topical issue, it is not least due to enquiries and descriptions from those who have experienced the problem on a close basis. Kids steal at home, they steal in stores and nap bags to get money to play for on vending machines. And what's perhaps even worse: Children and youth are prostitutes for the same reason. It is therefore absolutely necessary that we intervene with age limits in order to stop such a development. That recognition is shared by the humanitarian and voluntary organisations by the majority of the Storting. Yes, some have themselves gone ahead and introduced the age limit on their own vending machines. It serves them honor. The Christian People's Party had assumed that there would be an agreement in the Committee on the introduction of the age limit for games on vending machines. It is therefore surprising to note that the Progress Party does not share this view. It can hardly mean anything other than that the Progress Party does not see the pressure and unfortunate development to which too many children and young people are subjected. When the machine operators themselves see the problem, why does the party not accept this and show the necessary care? This disappoints me, but of course it is far more dramatic for those who are weakened by the Progress Party. The problem of gambling addiction is not limited to private games, nor is it just about children and youth. It is therefore absolutely necessary that the State and the rest of the games also be lost in the seams. It will surprise me if the Storting will not treat these in the same way as the private ones we are talking about today. Certainly we can agree that there is so-called aggressive bait in light, sound and image on the auto food. But there is no less aggression in the marketing of the lottomillionaires who are not like other people, or in the extra bottle you can have by winning 20,000 kroner each month for 20 years to come. So ran and bought Lotto and Flax! I have information from the social office that tells me that large groups of immigrants from countries where gambling is not common spend a lot of money on gambling in Norway, and I have self-esteem found it to be true. But we also don't have an overview that tells us about the development of addiction among our new countrymen. In order to provide a scientifically sustainable overview of the extent of dependence as a proper basis for discussion of the principle of gambling and the need for treatment, a population survey, for example, should be carried out. under the authority of the State Institute for Alcohol and Drug Research. In Sweden, a study shows that 9 pst. of the population represents 52 pst. of the sales of the game, and that 3 pst. stands for 33 pst. of the spillage. It's probably in this group that we find those who play from "garden and land". Tragedies are being created here, not least for the close relatives. At the beginning of the big meeting today, I submitted a private bill to the Stortinget to include the gambling addicts in the public treatment offer. It is absolutely necessary that this problem be taken seriously in serious treatment. For those institutions that already offer treatment, there is a great deal of searching. It's also said to be such a good goal achievement that 75 pst. of the processed products, the problem is eliminated. Most people will most likely be able to be treated outpatiently, and thus do not need permanent hospitalisation. However, I would suggest that it would be right to switch off, for example. 2 pst. the placing on the market of games for research and treatment of gambling addiction. Thus, I am promoted at my second main point in the post, namely the consideration of the revenue of the organisations. The Christian People's Party is also pleased and appreciates the great humanitarian and voluntary efforts made by most of those who get income through today's lotteries and vending machines. We're not looking to ‘struggle ’ the income opportunities of serious and valuable social actors, but we're seeing a high-market gambling market and some victims that account for the majority of money use. It's an ethical conflict. In that context, the Christian People's Party is looking for the solutions we think are the right ones. The introduction of the age limit, the establishment of lottery surveillance and some modifications to the vending machines will undoubtedly result in a decrease in revenue for the organisations. Can we compensate for this loss of income in any way? Hardly for everything, but we have to be willing to look at the distribution of revenue from the entire gaming market again. This should also include revenue from pure entertainment games and, where appropriate, other games without money gains. In the case of the automatic market, there is also a black market, which future vending machines must prevent. These include: on mechanical counting devices which can be manipulated today to register only every other crown placed on the machine. This gives rise to the black market and the avoidance of funds that would otherwise have gone into the lottery. In the case of machines with mechanical counting devices, the tell-tale may also be switched off, so that the tell-tale records turnover only in parts of a period. This means that the machine can be used for example: record legal income for the half month and black income for the rest of the month. There is also a device in the market capable of reversing the counter delivered on machines with mechanical counting devices. Other methods are also used to discard black income, but we have full confidence in the serious humanitarian and social non-governmental organisations. Therefore, it would also be beneficial for these that, after a transitional period, the market consists only of new type-approved automatic counting machines. The last point I choose to mention in my post concerns alcoholic beverages as a gain. Only the Christian People's Party has a note at this point in the setting. Someone will probably suggest that it's because we're fanatics. We're not. However, the party’s representatives in the Judicial Committee have knowledge and experience of people who have just received the puff for ‘walking on a crack’ through the Friday winery at their place of work. What people do in their private lives, we won't sit down as judges. But the Christian People's Party does not want to open up to the possible interpretation that lotteries of alcoholic beverages as a gain are allowed in workplaces. This leads to unnecessary pressure on those who are not allowed to get alcohol between their hands because in that case they are going wrong. It is against, forces and humiliating explanations to say that I do not want to buy lots when the surplus goes to social measures for the employees. Then you're associal, and it's only those who have recognized their problem and got help for it, which then dares to say. Now it's called correct in Ot.prp. No 84 propose a change to the Lottery Act to bring the rules into line with the Alcohol Act §8-6. There shall be a technical adaptation and shall mean that alcohol as a gain is permitted in a private context. But this is not the way the proposal is perceived. In the evening post of 11 December Gunnar Magnus comments on it as follows: ‘The majority also opens up to legalise all wine lotteries around Norwegian workplaces. ‘... This says the Christian People's Party that we don't want to be on. As at the age limit for games on vending machines, we will, through no to alcohol lotteries in the workplace, protect the most vulnerable party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e268	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e271	I'm recording once again that the Christian People's Party is stressing very 18-year-olds. But I think it's on the edge when, in order to show how many people suffer from gambling addiction, in their argument for an 18-year-old age, it becomes clear that there are so many who play farm and land. I didn't think it was possible for children and young people under the age of 18 to play from their farm and land. Here the cards mix something huge, and you can put a question mark on why you do it. But the representative has actually given the answer to it himself, as I also mentioned in a reply reply, that Christian corpse People's Party would have preferred to have seen that there were no games, either state or private. I've come to understand that you're going to have the same perception of state games as of private games, so that's what has to be the result. I would like to stress that it is important to distinguish between controlled leisure activities and what can be described as some people’s problems with gambling dependence. Problems may arise in relation to gambling addiction, regardless of whether there are private lotteries or state games. Once again, I would like to point out that there is no legal framework that prevents children from wagering their pocket money on state games about money. Here's something that's not entirely in touch. Finally, in this reply, it is also very important to point out that credible knowledge needs to be developed creatively on the issue of gambling addiction before it can be detected bombastically that there is an increase in gambling addiction. The Christian People's Party is also involved in stressing in the unanimous comitology that there is no satisfactory research in Norway regarding the development of gambling addiction. Nevertheless, the representative of the Christian People’s Party claims that there is a major problem with gambling addiction in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e280	Yes, in fact, it is a big problem in Norway. I myself am in charge of a business that deals with people with gambling problems. It's a big move, and we're operating on waiting lists. It's happening not only from the people themselves, but from around the families, who are desperate, and who in that way make sure that we get more information about the scope than we would otherwise have recorded. I fully agree with Mr Stag that we need a proper scientific study. That's what I said in my article. I believe that the State Institute for Alcohol and Drug Research will be a very good player in this context, because it has experience from studies of a similar character in relation to drug dependence. It has great knowledge and great experience, and I think it'll be able to do a job that could form the basis for the fundamental discussions that we're going to conduct in the future when we have an actual scientific basis to assume. I have not said that they are under 18 years of age who play from the farm and land. I first said a lot about those who are under 18, and then I said that we have a big problem among those who are above this age group. Although there appears to be not so many with this problem, because they do not appear in the media, we see what is in contact with it through the substance of treatment in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e292	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e295	The Justice Committee will send the Lottery Act back to the Government. At the same time, we support the establishment of lottery surveillance and the introduction of age limits for gambling. The legal text will be returned because the Committee will be absolutely sure of: guidelines and framework conditions for non-governmental organisations shall be stable and foresee that the revenues of organisations maintained important activities are not affected by regulations of the Ministry not supported by the Stortinget A law with extensive use of powers shifts the legislative work and power from the elected legislative assembly to the departmental offices. Some powers are appropriate, provided that the Board of Regulators is never used to conduct a minority political course or the course of a department of a department. I trust that a Left Justice Minister is concerned about this. Here we have a common ideological thought product. That is why I believe that the Minister of Justice will make sure that the Department loyally stick to what is the view of the Storting and is in the position. I say this, of course, because I have been informed that a member of the department post-proposition staff informed a volunteer organisation that the work in the department continues with the aim of making Stortinget change its mind. If this is right, it's outrageous. During the committee's delivery phase, when the department's political leadership told the members of the committee that arcades would not mean that the machines could not be in the same locations as today, a deputy director in the department went out on radio and said the exact opposite, namely that today's petrol stations and local shops could hardly be used as a location. A similar episode we had the last arrangement with the casino on the passenger ferries was up for treatment. From the department it was then expressed to the ferry companies that there was a majority to stop the scheme. In Stortingen, we had clearly supported the plan to continue. This isn't quite good. It is also detrimental to trust that should be between legislator and practitioner, if we cannot feel fully confident that the climate is such that the regulations and their practice are in line with Storting's intentions. I would like to stress that this is not a general criticism of the Ministry of Justice, because it is only in the lottery case and in relation to this subject that I have such experience as I have given an example of. On the contrary, the Ministry of Justice would like to emphasise itself very positively by just following clear signals from the Committee. The Committee's signals in this setting include, inter alia: that the gambling market consists of both State and private games, that these must be seen in the context, and that we want a comprehensive review of state and private games back to the Stortinget. I believe that there should not be an age limit for organisations' gambling without at the same time setting the same age limit for the entire gambling market. In addition to the creation of common legislation on private and public gambling, they should also be subject to the same department in order to ensure equal treatment and equal treatment as a whole. With regard to the definition of what is to be considered a social or humanitarian objective, the Committee does not accept that restrictions are being imposed here at the top of the Storing and the actors. The Committee clearly states that no more stringent access to the lottery market can be granted without first being submitted to the Stortinget, and large and small players must be treated in a non-discriminatory manner when the criteria for whom lottery is to be considered are designed. The gambling market in television is dominated by public games today. The Committee asks the Government to propose how to share this market between State and private games. The Committee has previously asked the Government to assess the initiation of BingoLotto in relation to the Lottery Act. That mission has not been carried out by the Ministry, and a unanimous committee therefore asks the Government to return to the Stortinget with such an assessment, together with a proposal for a division of the market between State and private games. The number of vending machines is currently estimated to be between 33 000 and 35000. The Committee does not authorise the ministry to reduce this number. Furthermore, licences for lotteries should be granted in accordance with uniform and non-bureaucratic criteria. In particular, due to the fact that the lottery supervision is financed by fee revenue from the actors, it is essential that good standardised application forms are established, which do not require extensive and costly application procedures. I'm sure the Council of State will follow up. The Committee rejects the possibility of increasing the profit share of the lotteries and of setting a maximum operating cost ceiling of 15 p.m. because, inter alia, competition from State games make sales of lotteries increasingly difficult and therefore it is absolutely necessary for humanitarian organisations to use professional operators for sales and operations. The Committee states that the allocation gap between the purpose, operation and the local authority should not be changeable without the consent of the Storting, as this is a crucial framework condition for the actors. Children’s gambling addiction must be combated, especially those most vulnerable: boys between 12 and 15 years of age. It is good that the voluntary organizations themselves have wanted a limit on the age of gambling. Most recommend a 16-year limit, while Redd Barna wants an 18-year limit. For me, it is impossible to defend the fact that the State, at the Ministry of Justice, sets age limits justified by gambling addiction on the part of others and, at the same time, omits its own – the state – which also has a significantly greater scope. It's a double standard we can't be familiar with, and I assume, of course, that the Minister of Justice, when a new case is promoted for the Stortinget, determines that there will be an equal and fair age limit for all gambling, including those of the state itself. For me, it's far more important than whether the limit is 16 or 18 years old. Due to the age limit being introduced, there is no need to make the machines ‘slower’ to play on, rather on the contrary, as long as we assume that the revenues of organisations will be maintained. The regulation sent out by the Ministry on 28 August 1998 to make all vending machines less attractive by 1 April 2001 should be withdrawn. The Committee clearly states that: ‘no requirements must be imposed in the regulations requiring the replacement of the machines or reducing revenue for the organisations’. ‘The Committee asks the Ministry to review the regulations in the light of these assumptions. ‘... These are quotations from the setting and cannot be omitted. It is very worrying at this point if you send out signals from the department that you intend to continue as before. The Committee is informed that the downgraded machines do not record as many revenues as before. That's why we say in the setting: «For the Storting, it has been a premise that the revenue should be somewhat at the present level. ‘... And on the other hand, ‘The majority believe that the need to reduce the number of machines is now less important. ‘... It does not help that someone has already adjusted according to the regulations and paid money to make the machine less attractive with response time, sound and light flash. Those who have done so are quite clear in their recommendation to us: the new machines are recording significantly less money, and it is essential that the regulation is recalled before even more people spend unnecessary money on a costly downgrading of the machines. It is still good until 1 April 2001, almost 1 1⁄2 years, but it is now time for organisations to be informed that they do not have to incur this cost. Of course, it's okay with a volume button on the vending machine, so that the store can cancel, etc. the Committee supports the limit of effort and profit, but we do not support the regulation of 28 August 1998. The Committee is sceptical about gambling halls. We agree that playing boxes can be tested, but crystal clear that there is no requirement for the use of arcades. In addition, it should be possible to continue to use today’s stands. These are often at gas stations and in kiosks where the holder has a view of the vending machine from the box. This gives you equal opportunities for supervision as large machine collections in an arcade. The majority of the committee opens up casino operations and will have a case for Stortinget to do so together with an overall assessment of the total gaming and vending market. The majority believe that the surplus can go for humanitarian and social purposes, and in Finland we know that the legalisation of gambling casinos led to the liquidation of illegal ‘gameballs’ run by criminal communities. It was a significant positive side effect. In the case of passenger ferries travelling abroad, access to as well as casino-based vending machines is maintained. The majority will now have this into the law, so that we are absolutely sure that the signals are being followed up. The government estimates the cost of lottery supervision to be 45 million. kr. There is a lot of money, and even if it is not to be taken from the minimum fraction of revenue for the purpose, it must be taken from a place. And if the operating costs of money games increase, it becomes to the seventh and ultimately less to distribute and less to transfer to the purpose. I therefore assume that cost-effectiveness opportunities will be a key criterion in determining the scope, detailing and geographical location of the lottery surveillance. These things that I have mentioned, it was important for the Storting to preface before the further legal work. I trust that the Dørum Government Council will follow this up with its department, so that local sports teams and humanitarian organisations do not have to worry about new and worse framework conditions for the revenue to ensure the fantastic value of the work these organizations do.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e383	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e386	It is good that we can complement each other, because the right affected a number of areas that I did not have time for as rapporteur-in-chief. Among other things, I have hang me up in the following quote: ‘The Committee’s plurality, all the non-recognisable members of the Progress Party, or else it considers that the primary purpose of private commercial activities should not be credited with lottery criminals. ‘... Furthermore, it is said that it has been 'great increases in the number of entrepreneurs'. And on the other hand, ‘Multiannual’ – except the Advance Party – ‘asks that any proposed change in the distribution between the objectives, the contractor and the owners of the localities be submitted to the Stortinget. ‘... My question goes to the Right: Is it the way to want fewer entrepreneurs, and that if in the long run the lottery suffers from a disadvantage, depending on what is put in ‘ugstig’, the Right can help ensure that the larger lottery organisations, once again a competitor of the small organisations with lottery purposes, take over the entrepreneurial business? Does the representative from the Right not see that there is a situation here that might lead to the opposite, of what she as the representative of the Right is initially looking for when it comes to the distribution of funds and profits?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e401	I think the representative, Mr. Stang, can take it quite calmly. The first relationship that was raised was whether to use lotteries to generate revenue for private commercial players, or, as the Right and the majority said, the lottery revenue should primarily go for humanitarian and social purposes. It should be clear from the sun that it is all the great work done by the private, voluntary humanitarian organisations, which is the reason why they are allowed to operate in the lottery market. It has never been the intention of the Right that general business operators should be allowed to run business in the lottery market in Norway. It is in order to fulfill the amazing tasks that these voluntary organisations are doing, that we will give them framework conditions on the lottery market. That's probably where we disagree. In the case of point two, if the Right will stand in the gap to change the distribution key between the purpose, the contractor and the landlord/local holder, the reality is the opposite. By taking part in that comment, we ensured a majority of what is important here, namely that changes should be made to the distribution key, then the Stortinget shall, on a proposal from the Government, so that all actors can be consulted through the ordinary consultation round, and that no one can change their framework conditions without having done so after a democratic process in which everyone has been heard. That was the right thing to do by being part of that comment, and it should have been with respect to notifying the Progress Party, so that they too should have been on the note.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e409	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e412	When Odelstinget today deals with the present setting, we also get in place the necessary tools to regulate an ever-growing private gambling market. For the most part, time has been over-ripe in order to ensure a sound distribution of the revenue from games and lotteries and to ensure that the maximum share of turnover is socially useful or humanitarian. Competition in the gambling market has become considerably harder in recent years and sales have increased. Developments in slot machines have taken place at a high pace and the machines have become more advanced. The aggressiveness of the game has increased. The same is true of the attempts at gradual circumvention of the rules. The expenditure related to the lottery settlement has increased as a result of expensive lottery devices and professional assistance requirements. This has resulted in net income falling and organisations receiving too little share of turnover. The current organisation of the lottery management has provided a small opportunity for overall transparency and control. Market developments require increased public governance, including: must take account of a socially sound distribution of the revenue from lotteries. In the Central Party, we have consistently argued that the purpose of the law should be to ensure that the distribution of games and lotteries ensures revenue for social and humanitarian purposes. The issue of the establishment of a lottery control has been on the agenda since 1994. The Committee supports the Ministry's proposal for the establishment of State Lottery Supervision. Furthermore, the Committee has made it clear that it is important for the Ministry to return to the Grand Duchy with a comprehensive review of State and private games. It is also worth noting that the Committee asks the Government to consider whether there should be common legislation for both private and state games and whether it is most appropriate to bring together all overall governance in one department. The Committee supports the Ministry's proposal that lottery supervision should be located outside the Ministry and independent of the Norwegian Tipping AS premises at Hamar. In the Center Party, we are concerned that the Government is using this opportunity to place this function and the 35 full-time positions in District Norway. It will also be in line with the Government’s localisation policy, which says that new government tasks should, as a general rule, be located outside Oslo, and that location to the capital must have a very special justification. With regard to who will have access to the gambling market, the Committee is clear in its formulation that conditions must be provided to enable sports, associations, clubs and voluntary organisations to continue their important functions, especially in the various districts, through the continuation of lottery activities, whether small lotteries or vending machines. In addition, the Committee supports the Ministry's proposal that smaller lotteries with a turnover of DKK 100 000 be exempted from the authorisation requirement, but subject to reporting obligations to the police. One of the proposals in Ot.prp. No 84 for 1998-99, which has been the subject of the highest attention, is the introduction of the 18-year age limit for games played on vending machines. The central party has always supported the government and, among other things, the government. Save Barna’s view that it is unfortunate that children and young people are given access to gambling on vending machines. I am therefore very pleased that a majority in the Committee, all parties except the Advance Party and the Right, are in favour of introducing the 18-year age limit for games on machines. The Committee has come to the conclusion that there is a need to investigate more matters before the adoption by the Stortinget of a new Lottery Act. However, it is important to establish that the Committee has given its agreement to the Ministry in some important areas. This concerns support for the establishment of State supervision in line with the Government’s proposal, which also gives the Government the freedom of action to prepare for the establishment of a lottery supervision and a complaint. Furthermore, the majority of the Committee supports the Government's proposal for an 18-year age limit for slot games. The Committee has endorsed the testing of a concept of controlled gaming landscape. The Committee also supports the Government's proposal to open up gambling on the Internet under framework conditions provided by the Stortinget. I believe that the agreement reached in the setting, and the leadership given to the Government to investigate more matters before the Storting finally adopts a new lottery law, will help to give players in the gaming market the security and predictability they need. They deserve that, in the light of the sacrificing and social work they do.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e446	When the Judicial Committee now proposes that the proposition be returned to the Government, we in SV suggest it. We see well that there are several issues that need further processing, so that Odelstinget can decide on a new lottery bill later, and then we will also address the proposals that are available. Nevertheless, there is a problem I would like to have answers from the Minister of Justice already today, and I challenge him because I am not so optimistic that I think I am reaching out in the change of line. A majority supports an 18-year-old age limit for gaming on vending machines, and it receives full support from SV. But we're a little worried if the fact that the case is sent back means that the 18-year-old age limit will be postponed. There are so many issues the Committee has asked for an investigation that it will necessarily take time before the Government can submit proposals for a new law. I would therefore like to ask the Minister of Justice: does he now understand that he has a mandate from Odelstinget to propose the 18th anniversary limit as soon as possible, or will he wait for the whole law to be re-examined? If the latter is the case, here and now I'm going to signal that SV will, with the first, present a separate proposal on the introduction of the 18-year age limit on slot machines. That's how serious we're looking at it. We believe it is very important that the Government contributes to more research on gambling addiction, because, as many have said, there is not enough material in this field in Norway. However, a recent study from Norsk Gallup and NTNU in Trondheim shows that 3,000 children and young people under the age of 18 are at risk of developing mental dependence on automated gambling. The study shows that 5 pst. by children and young people playing on vending machines four to seven times a week. Several examples of children under 18 years of age who have fallen into gambling debt and committed criminal acts to cover that debt have been identified. The parents are worried, and in Åsane Township in Bergen, mothers went to action against slot machines earlier this year. Although we do not have much research here in Norway in this field, it must be reasonable to assume that conditions can be compared with those in the other Nordic countries. In Sweden, a large study has been carried out on Swedish gambling culture. It shows that, in addition to the 18-year age limit on the machines, other measures to protect children and young people need to be taken. The Swedish survey shows that children are up to seven times more affected by gambling than adults. One of the conclusions of the Swedish survey is that strict controls must be carried out on the location of the vending machines so that children and young people under the age of 18 do not have access to them, that proper supervision must be exercised, and that attempts at illegality must be severely reduced. What is the difference between Norway and Sweden is that there are at least three of us here if not several times as many vending machines as in Sweden. In the light of research in Sweden, I think it is with respect to report that the Committee has too little problematised what gambling causes – at least as I can read the setting – not for the many who play at times, but for the few that gambling addiction has serious consequences for. I think it is particularly worrying that a justicomite who knows how to support tough instruments in the fight against crime, troubles gambling addiction to such a small extent – again as I can read the setting. Of course, that criticism goes to the Progress Party, but also to the rest of the Committee. In March, the Evening Post presented alarming figures about children’s gambling madness. The police notice that more and more children and young people are explaining the issue and theft with the need for money for automated gambling. I think it's quite alarming that the committee will open up the possibility that the aggressive machines will not be replaced by 1 April 2001, as the Department's regulations have been, because, as I can read it, the nice machines don't make the same amount of money for the purpose. SV does not want to hit the voluntary organisations and sports teams that get income from these games, because we see that they do a lot of good work. But children and young people are, after all, an important target group for the organisations and the sports to which they are going to work. I want to point out that in order to secure revenue for these, the Storting has decided that 10 pst. the revenue generated by public games shall go directly to local cultural and sporting activities, i.e. to local organisations working for children and young people. With these comments and some criticism, we support the Committee's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e472	I want to associate some comments with the relationship between private games and state games. Several representatives have already been involved in this topic, and I would like to stress that the Workers' Party fully supports the need for a comprehensive, comprehensive review of the state and private games in a context. I assume that the Council of State and the Ministry of State work following today's treatment will carry out a thorough review of the relationship between State and private games, including an assessment of whether there should be a common legislation for State and private games/lotteries. Today, the 1995 Lottery Act regulates private games, while state-controlled money and toll games are regulated by their own laws and have their own control bodies under the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Agriculture. Much of the discussion about the proposition we have to deal with today has been about slot machines. This has in many ways led to a far too narrow debate around what has to do with lotteries and games. The discussion has focused on the number of vending machines, the location of the devices and not least the age limit for playing on them. The majority, the centre parties and the Workers' Party are already entering today to introduce the 18-year age limit for gambling on vending machines. The motivation and importance of introducing the age limit are at risk of developing gambling dependence and/or gambling abuse. In this context, perhaps one should be cautious about the concepts of a user, and nuance the concept of use somewhat. A natural consequence of the motive behind introducing the age limit for games on machines is that we need to assess the age limit issue in relation to the overall gaming market, i.e. both for state and private games. There can be no difference between a developer’s gambling addiction compared to, for example, a player’s gambling addiction. a State Totalisator Game, or whether it occurs with the use of vending machines. The outcome will be equally tragic for the person concerned. In the context of the possible introduction of BingoLotto, for which several NPISHs had a wish, a majority of the Judicial Committee earlier in that period concluded that a decision on the introduction of a new TV game had to be considered in connection with the presentation and treatment of the Lottery Act. As the representative of Krohn Devold has already mentioned, the Department did not come forward with any proposal or assessment in relation to BingoLotto, and therefore we ask that this be done now, and that the Department take a decision on this in the new case of lotteries which the Government now has to present to the Stortinget. What also makes it necessary for me to mention this now is that, in the meantime, new government games have been introduced on the television screen, preferably through large advertising campaigns. Then it is perfectly understandable that there will be some frustration among the actors who want BingoLotto. At present, the Workers' Party is included for the first time in a majority opinion for an assessment of the introduction of casino activities. I stress that we do not now say that we will go in for casino business. What we want is an assessment of such activities, provided that the surplus goes for humanitarian and social purposes. The introduction of casino operations in the other Nordic countries may indicate that legal casinos in controlled forms can be far on the road with the illegal and illegal casino activities that are likely to take place in and around criminal environments.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e493	The next speaker is the State Council Odd Einar Dørum. State Council Dørum has a speaking time of up to 10 minutes. The President sees that the Council of State seems surprised, so if he wants to be present in a shorter time, the President appreciates it, of course.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e498	It is approaching Christmas, so I was pleasantly surprised at the speaking time. Thank you, President! In Norway, we have long traditions that allow social and humanitarian organisations to drive lotteries to income for the voluntary efforts that benefit us all. Through a long political life, I also believe to have shown that the union of volunteering is one of my heart issues, and there is a broad consensus in the Government to improve the basis of the voluntary organizations. Games and lotteries are a political topic that gives rise to great commitment. It is traded in this market for approx. DKK 18.7 billion per year. years. Authorities are trying to regulate this in order to ensure that organisations receive their legitimate share of the revenue. It has also focused on gambling addiction among both young people and adults, as well as on related illicit gambling activities. Therefore, a new Lottery Act must take more account of: 1st@item: inlistbox The revenues of organisations from the market must be maintained and a fair distribution of income opportunities must be ensured.2. A new law must protect the player, both by providing a guarantee of good security in the game and by preventing the risk of gambling dependence. 3rd@item: inlistbox In addition, a new law must prevent the breeding ground for crime and ensure that a maximum share of turnover actually goes to the social or humanitarian purpose. These considerations may conflict with each other and taking a stand on the right balance point has been a difficult task both for the Government and for the Judicial Committee – as I read the Committee's intentions and comments. The Justice Committee has come to the conclusion that the Government must investigate more matters before the Stortinget adopts a new lottery law. However, the Committee has supported the establishment of State supervision, in line with the Government’s proposal, and will provide the Government with the necessary room for action to prepare the establishment of the lottery supervision and appeal subject. This is an important and positive signal to all players in the gaming and lottery market. The establishment of lottery surveillance and the obligations imposed on market players would indirectly give greater legitimacy to all those involved in the lottery and gaming markets. I am pleased that the Committee also supports the Government's proposal for an 18-year age limit for gaming on winning machines. I agree with the Committee that there is also a need to assess the age limits and the marketing of state games, as well as to see the private and state games in the context in general. We will therefore launch an overall review of the framework conditions and the market distribution between the state's own games and the private lotteries. Let me make a few comments about this, because it is not the Ministry of Justice or the Minister of Justice who alone is looking at this. As you know, the games are distributed among different departments. However, on behalf of the Government, I choose to take this as a challenge to the Government to look at the context on behalf of a position of the Judicial Committee, and to ensure that it is properly presented to the Storting. I will probably carefully consider not whether to do so, but how to do so without coming into conflict with what the Stortinget has actually asked, namely to get to a lottery monitor as soon as possible, and at the same time to get some other practical conditions up and up. But that sort of thing I'm taking, and I'm actually going to go to the step of saying that it's almost a historic day when in the Stortinget you can get such a wide mark that there's a need to look at the context. This relationship does not go beyond the good ends or the good intentions, but draws attention to how the state, the NPISHs and the various entrepreneurs actually act, how the revenues are distributed, and how the final result of the seventh and last benefits the good purposes. So the overall assessment you're asking for, I think myself is a very exciting and right political challenge. The government has considered it important to establish controlled gaming landscapes in connection with winning machines. I'm glad the committee agrees that the concept of controlled gaming landscapes – I use that word because there are obviously some people who have read the word arcade as meaning gambling hall – can be tried out. This is important for the implementation of the control measures on which there is broad agreement. I would like to stress that it has not been the intention of the Government to reduce the size of the lottery market. I believe that the Justice Committee supports maintaining the ceiling on the number of vending machines on the actual number of permits per year. today until the lottery control is in place and all the vending machines are registered in the planned vending register. But I am also aware of the comments that relate to the regulation of the scope and the challenges we have been faced with the automatic regulations themselves. I'll come back to it a little later in the article. I am pleased that the Justice Committee has seen the need to strengthen the control of the lottery market. The Committee supports the proposal for the authorisation of contractors and local holders. Similarly, the Committee agrees that legislation must ensure that the social or humanitarian activities of organisations must not be mixed with their own activities as entrepreneurs or local owners. The Committee also supports the proposal to strengthen the accountability and audit obligations and insists that supervision should have the necessary powers to carry out effective control and infringement of the law with appropriate responses. I have, of course, also noticed that the general rules of the game that will apply to the market are matters in which the Storting wants to engage. Considering that this is a field that has been too rarely raised to broad political treatment and discussion, I regard this interest as a healthy and strong interest that I share in full. I believe that the committee's proceedings give both myself and the government a very good chance to do something about this and present it as a matter for the Stortinget. The Committee supports the principle of testing and type-approval of all vending machines in accordance with fixed criteria, but asks for an assessment of the automatic regulation, specifying different options, based on the need to ensure the revenue of organisations. I want to start a review of the current 1998 type-approval regulation just over the New Year. However, the criteria to be laid down when leaving the 1998 regulation need to be carefully considered. A first step may be to extend the transitional period in order to allow the market to act while this assessment takes place and the Storting is given a chance to deal with the matter which they are to have. I am concerned that the debate on the regulation of the automatic market is not just about revenue from the machines. I would like to consider alternative measures to compensate for any loss of revenue in the automatic market, and I have already signaled to the organisations that I would consider softening the sales and profit limits of vending machines, land lotteries and bingo. But in any case, these different questions about the automatic regulations and thus the framework conditions for games and the various games should return to Stortinget as soon as possible. In addition, the Committee supported the Government’s proposal to open internet gambling under framework conditions provided by the Stortinget. I would also follow up on the Committee's signals to assess the market for TV lotteries, and identified the need for casinos as an instrument for providing new revenues to the organisations. The revenue from the lottery market must have legitimacy in the broad sense of opinion. The debate must therefore focus on the instruments that, overall, provide the best return for the objective within a socially sound framework. With regard to the establishment of lottery supervision and complaints, it also has a budgetary side. The State budget for the year 2000 allocated NOK 27,5 million, but provided that the expenditure is covered by fees, partly by fees for which the current Lottery Act does not provide the basis. I will therefore carefully consider how to proceed and come back to the question as early as possible. Let me then make a couple-three other comments. I am glad that this emphasizes the importance of an age limit, and I say that even if I have read, or not read – I kept saying – what we have of research. Sometimes one faces falling height issues, and one must then make an ethical assessment. And politics is also about that. All policies are not about research. At the end, it's about the point of intersection between the life experience you have, and choices that populaces are probably fit to make. And I'm glad that the majority in Stortinget, I think primarily by the reason that the height of the fall can be too large if you don't establish an age limit, have decided to mark it, and at the same time asked us to look at it also for types of games other than those associated with the vending machines. When it comes to the ministry, I've noticed the different statements that have fallen. Let me say the following: I'm the department – it's so far – so critical comments of course fall on me too, and I take it with me. The size can be absolutely certain that I know how to manage my department, and can assume that the department is going to act in an appropriate way. It's always like that, and it'll always be like that. But even though I was in the slightly special situation that I listened to the nuances, and with the background of a long political life, I have to repeat: I'm the department, I'm the secretary. And of course, it's what I'm drawing for -- I don't know if I'm drawing for what people are saying at the city -- I probably don't, but I'm drawing for what's said in official contexts, and I'm drawing for what's said in written questions to the committee. I will make sure that what is available in the committee setting is understood, and is included, because it is my responsibility to provide for it. Then I got a question from the representative, Valle, whether I have been authorised to establish an 18-year limit freely. No, I don't think I have it. Legislation does not take place in such a way. I've been authorized to prepare it, and I've been authorized to prepare it as quickly as I can, without falling into the other considerations that the committee has asked me to consider. It's a challenge I'm going to try to get back to as quickly as possible, in line with the other issues raised by the Committee, on a fairly broad basis during its committee position.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e550	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e553	There were actually some merry tones to hear from the Council of State. I think it's very positive compared to what's in the odelsting proposition. We also know – large sections of the Committee – what negative experiences many actors have with the current regulations that apply today and that it seems that Odelsting wants to continue. But I hear that the Council of State will do a little differently. I want to show you two relationships. One is the Working Party on Lottery Law, which does not find it advisable to recommend the establishment of a Board of Lottery Supervision. That seems to be a pity to the Advancement Party. We think it is particularly important that a separate board of directors be set up for the lottery supervision, because the board will be a forum that can be independent of the supervision itself and that can oversee the operation. And it's also important to point out that the lottery agency has a wide-ranging board of directors. When that matter comes back, we will propose it again. It is necessary to seek to avoid a situation in which state loyalty, state-owned loyal bureaucrats make decisions at the expense of private organisations, teams and associations and firms operating in the market. That's our basic attitude. The Ministry of State of the Council joins the Working Party’s recommendation that no Board of Lotteries should be set up because, as is stated here, the sustainability of the lottery supervision indicates that market players are not directly influenced by the decisions of the lottery supervisor through representation on a board. Then I'm going to make it clear that here you have the solution to create a state in the state. I'm very surprised that a government council that has resigned from the Left Party, which at least in party speeches says that they want solutions that are closest to the users, now leaves this principle.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e562	A government council from the Left knows very well what Sverdrup in his time said about where all power would lie. And when the Storting then wants to draw up the framework for what is going to happen, it is a government's task to follow it, and its right to set the agenda. In that case, the administrative bodies to serve this distribution of power, whether anchored in the treatment of the Stortinget or in the authority of the Government, must also have clear guidelines to deal with. So it's full in a liberal spirit and tradition, and I'd like to sharpen it to: it's an advantage to have clear lines, so you know who to assume responsibility, right? If you want to draw a government council into charge, then the Storting knows how to do it. And if the Storting itself wants to make decisions of any kind, the Storting knows it. It's very important that the lines are clear. Then it's quite clear, and I want to repeat it: I'm responsible for the odd thing proposition that has been put forward. But I see one thing, and I'm going to like to put words on it. The Judicial Committee has seen its cut – and I think it is positive – to note that there has not been a disturbing broad debate on games and lotteries combined. They have simply used the opportunity to straighten out what I think is actually quite a lot of the responsibility, and then they have been invited to a fair trial to rectify this. I personally think it's very exciting. I commented on it in my post, and I'd like to repeat it, because that's exactly how you create a context. And in that context, I'm going to defend my secretariat. I don't think I'm doing anything wrong when I say the following: I don't think everyone who knows about the diversity of the Ministry of Justice has always had time to dive into the lottery cases. Now I'm a pretty activist person, I think, so I've appeared in it, and I'm going to continue not only by coming down, but also by sticking up again. And with the challenge that Stortinget has then given, to make sure that this is defined and discussed on a broad basis, it has created a constructive climate for what may have had to rest among bureaucrats who have done their utmost to do a fair job, but have been forced to suboptimize because it has not been a broad political debate. They are given a chance to become good bureaucrats, and the Council of State and the Grand Council are given a chance to make a good law for the benefit of the people and for the non-profit institutions to have the revenues.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e571	I asked the Minister of Justice a question. It may well be that it is because it is late in the evening – at least the day has been long – that I have not understood his answer completely. I am very pleased that the Minister of Justice stressed that research is not always needed to be sure that the right measures are being taken. And when it comes to introducing an age limit, at 18 years, you can rely on experience. I am aware that the Minister of Justice cannot propose an 18-year-old just like that. That's not what I meant either. What I asked about was whether he has realized that he has a mandate from the committee to propose to the Stortinget 18 years old as soon as possible. Or will he wait and come back to it in connection with the processing of a new law?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e581	Through this procedure, the Justice Committee has given me a very exciting challenge, namely through the treatment of the Government to contribute to a broad discussion of all kinds of games and lotteries. I guess most people will agree that if I do it first, I have to wait a long time before I can do other things. So, regardless of what I do, I can do what I've been told, and I'm happy to see what I can do to set up a lottery surveillance with related bodies. I can also, regardless of that again, look at what I'm going to do with that part of the gaming market that concerns vending machines. Regardless of that again, I can look at what goes on on other questions. So it's my job to sort this out in such a way that I can get sensible things in place, but so that there's law and order in it. That's the core point, and that's my challenge. I tried to comment on that in my article. Of course, I have been given a mandate to do a lot, but I have to make sure that I do it in a neat way in relation to how I read the Committee's position. I feel that the committee has given an instruction that creates opportunities, and I have said that I will come back to it. As the Council of State, of course, I have at any time the opportunity to challenge all parts of voluntary organisation Norway to set up on a voluntary basis a game scheme that also establishes an 18-year limit as a confidence building measure, because it has been given an overwhelming expression. But I can't command you. You can only do that when the law is in place. I'll think carefully about how I communicate, among other things. because organisations and their contractors are required to be tidy and transparent. In particular with regard to NPISHs, I am aware that through the committee setting, I have been given a moral authority to talk directly to them about how to introduce an age limit. And I'll be able to make use of that properly, regardless of the legal work I've been given a mandate to do.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e592	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e597	In the end, I would just like to point to two aspects that are behind the majority of the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Right. This majority say in the section on passenger companies, ferry companies and slot machines that they want to give companies greater predictability and the possibility of better framework conditions in the Lottery Act itself. The starting point must be such that the competitive situation should not deteriorate in relation to foreign companies carrying on board. The majority believe that this new law should indicate that Norwegian ferry companies should have this as an offer that helps to maintain the current route structure. The majority are concerned that the gambling activity is part of the entertainment offer expected to be on board by guests on cruise and passenger ships and ferries. Removing the slot machines will reduce the quality of today's on-board offers. The majority consider local radio activities to be highly socially useful. In line with the ministry, the majority do not consider the form of the company on the radio to be essential for any lottery licence. Nor is mixed ownership considered problematic. Thus, there should be no requirement for the lottery of the individual owner, as long as the radio as a legal entity meets the requirements imposed by law and regulation in order to be defined as socially beneficial. The majority consider co-ownership from other local media to be positive by the fact that a radio editorial can be strengthened. The majority consider that a separate regulation for local radio lotteries is required and that such a regulation shall oblige the radio to attach the statutes that any surplus shall be used for the operation of the local radio. Finally, I would like to state that the majority assumes that the transitional arrangements introduced by the Letter of the Ministry of Justice of 15 March 1999 are maintained until a new regulation, possibly law, is in place, and that lotteries to local radio for the calendar year 2000 are practised in line with the observations of the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e610	Once again, I am delighted to say that I fully agree with Minister of Justice Dørum. He said in his post that this is almost a historic day, and it is. It is also a joyous day, for today the government is going on a swindling defeat to the hymns of Christmas songs and cheers from a whole Norwegian organisational life, which is getting a solid Christmas gift from the big crowd. Several of the most serious attacks on their revenue from slot machines have put a final stop to a majority of the Judicial Committee through the Committee's comments. First of all, the Government's desire to force the slot machine to be replaced by less profitable machines. Most importantly, however, the department is deprived of the possibility of adopting regulations contrary to the wishes of the majority. That's exactly what happened in connection with the Arms Act. The least extensive and at least controversial proposals were included in the law, while the important details, which have proved most controversial and most incisive to users, came as regulations. That shouldn't have happened. Several of the regulations should have been incorporated into the bill, so that they could be subject to democratic control of the Storting. It is very gratifying that the entire Judicial Committee has learned from this and now demands that several of the rules of the Lottery Act be included in the legal text to be discussed in Stortinget. It is a victory for the Stortinget, and in political language it is a defeat for the Minister of Justice, but in normal language and in reality it is primarily a defeat for the bureaucrats in the Ministry of Justice, who are deprived of power and influence – and it is good.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e619	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 200]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e633	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 200]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e647	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs, Culture and the Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated by 5 minutes to each group. In addition, the President will propose that there should be no repetition after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e654	In the Law on Retired Pensions, the Government has proposed a sub-pension scheme for the combination of pensions and labour income based on a so-called pro rata principle. This means that the pension is determined according to the level of labour income. For example, if labour income were to be: 65 pst. of previous income, a pension equal to 35 pst is paid. of full retirement. When the income data for each calendar year are available, it will be apparent whether the individual has received too little or too much pension. A settlement shall be effected either in the form of arrears or as a drawdown in future benefits. If the total amount on an annual basis is less than NOK 4000, it shall be excluded from the post-employment benefit and there will be an opportunity to ask the social security office to adjust the current pension over the year if it appears that the annual income will vary by more than NOK 4000. The Government’s proposal to amend the law is to limit the possibility for the AFP pensioners to have a higher disposable income when their work activity is reduced than they had as fully active. The government does not think it must be more profitable to take out a pension than to continue working full-time. Under the current legislation on the combination of pensions and work in the AFP scheme, the pension is to be curtailed by 50 pst. of the income above the basic amount of the social security. The sum of income and pensions shall not exceed the amount of previous income. When a person takes into account tax benefits and AFP supplements, a person may in many cases receive higher income from sub-pension than from continuing to work. This is a little lucky and not intentional. Work should always be more profitable than retirement, especially when retirement is voluntary. In the same proposition, the government proposes that the age pension from the population benefit for all between 67 and 70 years of age be curtailed by 40 pst. of labour income exceeding the basic amount. In the treatment of the 1997 welfare notification, a more favourable system was introduced for the shortening of population protection in relation to income for all who did not withdraw the AFP before the age of 67. This scheme means that non-AFP pensioners are reduced by 40 pst. of income above the basic amount and there is no limit on the amount of the total pension and income. Those who take out the AFP, after 67 years, also get the curtailment of age from the population by 50 pst. income on the basic amount and the total pension and income shall not exceed the previous income. The aim of these two different rules is to stimulate higher retirement ages. On the other hand, it is unfortunate and administratively difficult to have different rules for old-age pensioners in the social security system. The two proposals we are considering today are supported by the Committee on Early retirement. This sample was in favour of a pro rata system, and the majority of the sample considered that all pensioners between 67 and 70 years of age should have equal curtailment rules, i.e. that everyone should be curtailed according to the most favourable rule we have today. The hearing bodies which have delivered their opinions have supported the conclusions of the Pre-Retirement Committee both with regard to the proposal for the introduction of a pro rata system and that there should be equal curtailment rules for all over 67 years. On the other hand, some consultation bodies have supported the conclusion of the minority sample that the pro rata principle should also apply to old-age pensions in the population population aged between 67 and 70. The government agrees that there must be the most uniform rules in the pension system, but that it is important to distinguish between pensions before and after the age of 67. In the government's view, it is reasonable that the old-age pensioners in popular security get somewhat more favourable terms than those who have the AFP. It is important to stress that, in addition to the fact that we will now have equal rules for all age pensioners in the population population, we also encourage the 67-70 age group to take income-generating work by also providing those who have taken out the AFP with a curtailment according to the most favourable rules. In the committee section, the Government has received support from the Progress Party and the Right for its proposals on these adjustments. In fact, both parties clearly state in their comments that they are in principle opposed to the AFP scheme, but support the proposals for adjusting the existing scheme. The Labour Party and the Socialist Left oppose the Government's proposal and point out that they have not been promoted in agreement with the social partners, but the matter is that there has been no agreement on the curtailment rules in the case of partial retirement. However, I note that none of the two parties argue against the concrete amendments either. On the one hand, on the part of the majority, the proposals are aimed at correcting the impact of the tax rules on the AFP system which has obviously been unintended but which is useful and logical. That should be indisputable. On the one hand, it is also a simplification which is clearly beneficial to the AFP pensioners and which will in addition stimulate the retirement pensioners between 67 and 70 years of age to take up gainful employment. I also refer to the comments in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e682	As indicated in the setting, the Workers' Party cannot accept the amendments proposed by the Government in this case. The background for that is in principle. The AFP system we have today has been established through cooperation between and with the social partners. The proposals for changes and tightening of the arrangement promoted by the Government have not been drawn up in agreement with the parties, which would be natural. The case should therefore be postponed and the cooperation restored in line with the assumptions of the income policy agreements concluded between the parties and the Government. The party cannot participate in any unilateral change in the contracts of the authorities concerned by the employer. That is why we have not made any concrete assessment of the changes proposed. The case has been handled by the Government, we believe that the AFP system must be continued under the contract. Looking back on the decisive impact that income policy cooperation between the authorities and a responsible trade union movement has had on keeping order in the Norwegian economy while reducing unemployment, it is very disappointing that today's government does not seem to appreciate this cooperation. In the context of the draft State budget for 2000, the Government has challenged the trade union movement by engaging in indirect attacks on the AFP scheme. And as if that wasn't enough, the government has also created uncertainty about the waiting pay system. In the budget position, both the Progress Party and the Right have attacked the housing loan scheme for government employees, which is a scheme for the benefit of the employees of the State. The two parties want to wind up the entire waiting wage system. These are very bad signals to send out to the parties authorities should have as good relations as possible. We believe that the government is wise to take seriously the strong reactions that have come from several trade unions. That's not how it can actually go on from the Government's side. The Workers' Party is seriously concerned that the Government's position on important agreements may have a negative impact on income policy cooperation with the social partners. Although the Norwegian economy today is good and unemployment is very low, there is no reason for the authorities to neglect the cooperation. There is no guarantee that we may not once again, and quite quickly, use a trade union movement that sets up and takes responsibility. Without income policy cooperation and solidarity, we would certainly not be there today, either in terms of unemployment, competitiveness or price development. We are convinced that the Norwegian society is best served by the fact that the trade union movement is not only the counterpart of the authorities, but also their counterpart. The Labour Party has noticed that the Government is concerned that participation in the profession is falling, and that the Government believes it will be a major challenge to prevent this. We do not disagree with that, but we do not see that the answer is to go into unilateral attacks on pension agreements entered into. We do not disagree that the pension scheme should be further developed in order to achieve greater flexibility. We agree that high participation of older people over time will be important both for well-being and for value creation. However, instruments other than changes in the pension scheme need to be considered in this context. According to the views of the Workers' Party, for example: the minimum deduction of employee income, agreed between the Workers' Party and the Government Parties, contributes to increasing the motivation to participate in the labour market for those who, for example, can combine work and retirement or social security. The Workers' Party is convinced that, in cooperation with the social partners, it will be possible to identify several constructive measures that can keep professional participation at a high level. We find reason to warn against the view that increased participation in employment can only be achieved by weakening the social security system and the AFP system. On this basis, the Labour Party will vote against the changes proposed in this Act.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e710	As a result of a previous post, the Progress Party has never concealed its principle of contractual pension. We have always been very sceptical and restrained in terms of selective schemes, regardless of who and what they had to be directed to. The Progress Party believes that contractual pension is just such a selective scheme. This is a case of significant retirement benefits that can benefit only some workers. Personally, of course, I see the idea of early retirement as good for some employees. Here I am thinking in particular of workers who have been working physically hard throughout their lives, something that health may bear the mark of in addition – without qualifying for, for example, disability benefits or other benefits. This may be especially true of women who have been in heavy care for a long time, it may be the shift worker who has worked inconveniently for 30, maybe 40, years, and who, in addition to it, may have had hard work physically. Here, I believe there needs to be a focus on more flexible pension schemes. This, of course, needs to be adapted to the economic level, but, as has also been said, there is cause for concern when we record that the expenditure increases to the AFP over the 1998 state budget were 304 million. NOK and these costs are expected to increase to SEK 437 million. NOK 2000 If one sees these figures in the context of an overall increase in the proportion of older people in the population and an increase in pension benefits, we see what challenges we will face in terms of financing these ‘mandatory’ pension benefits. Many workers already have supplementary pensions. These have been taxed for some strange reason. Perhaps a greater degree of consideration should also be given to such agreements when targeting any early retirement. Here, the authorities, the social partners, must show the willingness to view this as an investment in being able to stand out fully on the labour market because of the reasons mentioned above. However, the Progress Party believes that 67 years should be the current age limit for withdrawal from working life. As regards the Government's proposal in Ot.prp. No 60 for 1998-99 on a new sub-pension system for the combination of pensions and labour income based on a so-called pro rata principle, the Progress Party will support this. This proposal will determine the pension in proportion to the reduction in labour income. The Progress Party believes that it should be right to restrict the possibility for AFP pensioners to have a higher disposable income when their professional activity is reduced than they had as fully active. Here, of course, the principle that it must pay to work has to be given its rightful place. It was this that struck me when the representative Fossum made his contribution, because I seem to remember that the Workers' Party had a slogan that said it had to pay off to work. Now the entire post of the representative Fossum was about the trade movement and the social partners. I want to challenge the representative Fossum in relation to that, because I actually believe that the social partners, and not least the employees, have a great deal of understanding of such a change that is being made here. I don't think the employees or the social partners are interested that there should be different arrangements, and that one should earn more on going away with retirement than if one had been in work. I also find it a bit strange that the representative Fossum once again brought this forward with housing loans and waiting pay arrangements, and in this case the AFP, in particular aimed at the principle view of the Progress Party and the Right. For the purposes of the representative from Fossum, the social partners are in fact responsible for determining the expenditure on the State budget. Furthermore, the representative Fossum makes it sound as if it is only the Workers' Party and no one else who has a dialogue, and a good dialogue, with the social partners. It has to be completely wrong. I believe that the government that we have now has had a useful dialogue with the social partners, and I believe that the Progress Party does. I also think it's a little strange about what she's saying about what's being done here, because there's actually never been an agreement here. LO did not make any statement on this, because there was no agreement, and then it is strange that in this case she talks about the social partners and talks about their case. The Progress Party will therefore support the proposal that is in place, but will continue to emphasise our position in principle, that we are opposed to the whole of the AFP system.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e731	Unlike the representative Grethe Fossum, I want to talk about the matter we have to deal with here now, not all the other things that were part of the state budget, as a discussed earlier this week. I would like to make it clear that the Right has been and remains against the AFP system. We've been there ever since it was introduced. The scheme has proved to be far more expensive than the parties initially expected. Expenditure on AFP over the State budget in 1998 was 304 million. kr and is assumed for the coming year to be approx. 437 million. kr. We believe that it is in principle wrong that the state makes a significant contribution to a early retirement scheme that benefits only parts of the workforce. This is all the more wrong when we know that Norway is facing a trend where the proportion of older people in the population is increasing, which, in combination with higher average pension benefits, means that Norway is facing a trend where the burden of caring for the active population will increase considerably. The fact that in such a situation people are encouraged to retire earlier through the AFP is to send the wrong signal to the labour market. In the 2000 national budget, the government has estimated that the cost of old-age and disability pensions will increase from 8 p.m. of GDP in 1995 to 15 p.p. of GDP in 2030. And when we look at the number of AFP pensioners, it has also increased sharply in recent years. In 1998, the number of AFP pensioners increased by 60 pst, to 21 600, and in the first eight months of 1999 this has increased to 25 000, of which 12 000 come from the private sector. We in the Right therefore believe that any step that can contribute to tightening up the AFP system is positive. We will therefore agree with the Government's proposal, which will help to eliminate obvious injustices in the scheme. I would like to refer to the article that Mr T. Lånke made, and agree with what was said there. At all events, I would like to say that we support any proposal that can contribute to a tightening of the AFP system, and that is what this proposal does. This will give it the Right hand support.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e746	It was interesting to hear that the Right Representative considered this to be a tightening of the AFP system. The current AFP scheme is the result of negotiations and agreement between the social partners. We therefore disagree – to put it mildly – that changes occur without it coming as a result of negotiations between the parties. It has not been said that SV is opposed to changes, but the case should have been postponed until the parties could say so, and changes must come as a result of negotiations. SV believes that the possibility of early retirement is a well-being that needs to be safeguarded and strengthened in some areas. I have received a letter from the Association of Workers, which supports this very thing. I have lived for many years in Kvam, where the Bjälvfossen is located, and know the laborers that a lifetime has been shift workers at Bjälvfossen. I'll quote from the letter: ‘The AFP scheme is a scheme negotiated in a previous tariff settlement. In recent times strong voices have claimed that the system is too expensive and too good for those who can benefit from it. This is with respect to report a little thoughtful. The fact that older workers, after a long and arduous working life, will have the opportunity, within a reasonable financial framework, to leave the labour market and enjoy the rest of their lives while they still have it, is not irresponsible, but on the contrary, reasonable and fair. ‘... That's this right SV will defend. We still see, as I said earlier, that there may be a need for regulatory changes that make it more attractive for older workers to participate in the labour market. However, this must be done in an open manner in cooperation with the employee organisations. And we assume that changes do not conflict with the AFP regime in line with the agreement. In Norway, we have the highest professional participation across Europe. This is especially so because Norwegian women have almost as high participation as men. Full employment has been and will be important to maintain and further develop well-being. Maintaining high levels of professional participation is a political challenge. But this challenge does not only apply to older workers. And I think there's reason to think about why older workers want to retire earlier, whether this can be an expression of an increasingly greedy working life, which requires more and more of them. However, among the unemployed, and especially immigrants, who are kept wholly or partly out of the labour market, and part-time women, there is a potential for increased participation in the labour market. SV has made a number of proposals that would have promoted increased professional participation and thus increased value creation. I mention the liquidation of cash support, increased investment in action areas to bring unemployed and disabled people into ordinary employment, information and action against ethnic discrimination so that more immigrants could get the work they want, and increased minimum deductions, so that it would be more attractive for low pay in part-time jobs to increase their working time. These are proposals that would help keep more people in work and thus increase the value creation and security of welfare systems. SV will vote against the proposed changes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e773	The government wants to keep a good AFP scheme. However, there is reason to ask questions about legislation, as it is today, which overstimulates older workers to withdraw prematurely from working life. The proposal adopted today by the Stortinget is one element of the 1998 NOU:19, the suspension of the pre-pension selection. When it comes to the historical development of the AFP scheme, I refer to the distribution in the proposition. However, I note that until the settlement of income, when the AFP scheme was extended to 62- and 63-year-olds, it was a condition to take out a private-sector pension that individual employees end up in full in the post. It was so very unusual to be able to combine work and retirement. In the spring of 1997, however, it was opened so that enterprises can enter into written agreements with employees in a full-time job on part-time retirement, so as to enable them to step down their professional activity by 20 or 40 pst. The current rules for the combination of pensions and labour income are governed by the public benefit law and are not directly regulated in the contract. As can be seen from Ot.prp. No 79 for 1996-97, the parties stated that these rules could have an unintended distortive effect, but they were not known about new rules, as foreseen. The question of any new subpension rules was thus left to the legislator. On this background, the AFP Statutes were at the time only provisionally approved pending new rules. The Jagland Government brings down a selection in the autumn of 1997 to assess the various forms of flexible retirement to achieve a higher retirement age. In this proposition, the government of Jagland stated that the question of abbreviation rules in the AFP should be considered in this context. The early retirement selection came with the option NOU 1998:19, Flexible retirement, autumn 1998. The distribution has been heard, and is now being followed up. I refer both to the proposition being dealt with here today, and to the government's reference in the national budget. The background for Ot. pp. No 60 for 1998-99 is that, in some cases, one of the current rules of the AFP scheme may receive higher income in the case of partial retirement than in the case of continuing full-time work. It may also pay to reduce the activity by two days per person. week before one day. In my opinion, it's a little lucky, and it's not intentional either. In the law on contractual pensions, the Government proposes a new sub-pension scheme for the combination of part-pension and labour income based on a pro rata principle. This means that the pension will be determined according to the amount of income that will be reduced. The aim is to prevent a higher level of disposable income when the professional activity is reduced than the retired person had as a full-time job. Today there are two sets of curtailment rules for age pensioners between 67 and 70 years of age in the population. I mean that all old-age pensioners in the public world should have the same abbreviation. The proposals are based on the results of the selection of early retirement for flexible retirement and have been based on separate hearings. The hearing bodies that have expressed their opinion are in favour of the proposal for a pro rata system in the AFP system, and that one should have equal curtailment rules for all age pensioners between 67 and 70 years of age in the population. The Norwegian Land Organisation has not spoken. I would like to make it possible for older workers, too, to benefit from their experience and competence for as long as possible. It is positive that one at an increasing number of workplaces now sees the value of a good senior policy. I want to counteract a development in which healthy, workable people will experience relocation and freezing because they are approaching 60 years of age. At the same time, there shall be good arrangements, so that those who feel tired will have the opportunity to step aside from an active life of dignity. Labour shortages and major pension policy challenges mean that we must dare to follow up alert assessments when selections are reduced. That's what the government is inviting today. I share the opinions that several people here have given when it relates to the value of income policy cooperation, but I am surprised that a minority in this room is going against this proposal and will thus hold on to a system that actually pays off financially for active workers to receive pensions rather than to continue working.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e796	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e799	I'm not going to go out the debate for a long time, but I have to say that I'm being provoked by a couple of things, that is, first of all, what the Council of State says about overstimulating the use of the AFP system. The Labour Party believes that employees assess whether the scheme is appropriate for them according to the conditions they have at work and according to their own health. I think we should believe that, and not believe that we are overstimulating the use of the system. The second thing that provokes me is the representative of the Progress Party, Sandberg, who, in his speech with great boldness, claims that the Progress Party has a good relationship with the workers. Yeah, that's possible. It's possible that the Progress Party is talking to them instead of talking to them. It is also possible that there are workers who do not want to have an AFP scheme, it is possible that there are workers who do not want a waiting pay scheme, and it is possible that workers will have a lower sick pay, and for example. have qualifying days, and it is possible that there are workers who do not want to develop their skills. I think the government will notice that the people it is supported by in this case are the Progress Party and the Right, who do not want the AFP system to do well. Right-wing representative Trond Helleland says directly that this is to weaken the AFP system, and I think the government should notice it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e808	In fact, it is striking that Grethe Fossum is provoked by a claim of overstimulation, when the actual ratio is such that attitudes at different workplaces for older workers can be seen as a hint that you are now beginning to approach an age where you are able to benefit from an AFP scheme. I actually don't think Grethe Fossum either is forward because that's what it is and that's what it is. Fortunately, there is a change going on, and there are employers, the social partners, the government, and also many others busy with a wide range of tools. But then, at the end of 1997, the parties – LO and NHO – expressed that the current curtailment rules can give unintended distortive effects, especially in relation to partial retirement. The Igland government followed up and said in the context of the establishment of the Prep Selection that the curtailment rules should be assessed in this context. This is the bounded piece that will be followed up in this context. I have noticed that the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party are not setting up, and it surprises me when it comes to a limited part, where one actually adopted a temporary scheme after the income resolution. Of course, I have also noticed that those who set up and work for multiples here are two parties that are in principle against an AFP scheme. I would like to stress that the Government will last a good AFP scheme, but we have also asked questions in the national budget about certain elements, such as the early retirement selection, for example. in relation to the grant pension, and to the partial pension, which we are raising today, depending on whether this is the right tool if we want older workers to have better opportunities than today to stay longer in an active life, while at the same time maintaining a good system for those who work hard, who must be allowed to retire with dignity.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e818	Again, the representative uses Fossum for a whole 3 minutes to try to produce himself and the Workers' Party as the workers' hottest speakers. That's directly wrong, is my claim. When has the Workers' Party been talking about the framework conditions for employees in terms of taxes and taxes? There is only one way to go, it is to increase the tax and tax burden on employees in Norway, and there are at least we spokespersons for the employees. There the Workers' Party has not contributed anything. On the other hand, the Labour Party has contributed in a very negative way to its old workers, for whom they have spoken so hotly, who have gone into retirement. Because in 1991-92, the Workers' Party actually made the big effort to reduce the pensions of its former workers, for whom they spoke so hotly. They have something to take care of there. And as I said in my post, and as the representative of Fossum totally distances me from, I have more faith that the workers in this country have the sense of justice and do not want selective schemes that take out some groups that should have advantages, for example. in the case of residential loans. In fact, I believe that the vast majority of employees in the country generally wanted a lower level of interest on their mortgages. But Grethe G. Fossum wants only a few to have it. I think that the workers in general would have wanted everyone to get it, so that's where I think I'm in line with the employees. As far as the pension scheme is concerned, I think I am in line with the employees, because I believe that the workers themselves will regulate and have the freedom to take out pension insurance. But Grethe G. Fossum will tax these pension schemes, so that they do not have the opportunity to take out own pension insurance and reserve the right to decide for themselves when to retire. That will be decided by the representative of Grethe G. Fossum. In the case of other conditions, e.g. The freedom of choice will be completely removed by the representative Grethe G. Fossum and by the Workers' Party. Now they will add up to an AFP scheme – and strengthen it in relation to the ordinary pension scheme – which will become so expensive in the long term that it will have to increase taxes and taxes again to add to the state fund to pay out the AFP to an increasing number of workers. Finally, it will be the same as in 1991-92: they will have to reduce pensions for all. Today, perhaps Grethe G. Fossum and the Workers' Party are speaking warmly to these workers, but when these workers are going to have their pension, they are doing the trick of reducing it. I think, therefore, that the Labour Party and Grethe G. Fossum should be a little careful with their statements in relation to who is in line with the employees. I also think it is a little strange that the representative Fossum says that ‘it is possible’ that there are people who agree with the Progress Party. Now we are the second largest party in the country, and it would be strange if it were just the unemployed and not some workers in this country who voted the Progress Party at the last election. After all, there were 400,000 voters who voted for us, and among them I think we have good support for what we say – including among the Labour Party's voters, I think.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e831	The President must ask that you stick to the matter. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Footage, see page 200]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e847	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 201]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e861	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 201]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e875	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 202]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e889	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 203]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e903	The President will pay tribute to the Business Committee for the rational handling of cases.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e906	I'm sorry I'm a little late, but it's beyond expectations that it could go so fast. This matter applies to two relationships. The only thing is whether or not to require an establishment test to start serving establishments. The second is, if one is to have an establishment test, whether one is to be able to charge for the test from the municipalities’ side. Sixteen years ago, in 1998, it was agreed that one should have an inaugural test, but the implementation of this law clause was postponed because it was not clear. Then a proposal for regulations was sent out on the phone. There were different statements coming back on it. Some went further and had a strong view of how the regulations of the establishment trial should be, and raised the question of exceptions to the general rule. Others had a strong view of whether this could be imposed on the municipalities. KS went very high on the path and said they would oppose this. And if they were charged it, they would at least be able to charge for it. This led to the Government making a proposal to set up a voluntary test for municipalities, i.e. They could have it, but they could also not have it. They didn't think this had any particular negative sides. What was a pity about the proposition was that the employees’ organisations were strongly opposed to this and had great faith in an inaugural test, and that parts of the employer’s website – the main organisation of commerce and services – were also very much for a test. As we all know, this has been a business where there has been a lot of black work and a lot of crime, and it is good that the industry itself is trying to clean up. They thought that an inaugural test could be a way to clean up. After a little discussion in the committee, the majority, the Right, the Advance Party and the Workers' Party, have found that the etab leather trial may be a way to improve the sector. An inaugural test shall ensure that the controllers in serving locations have the basic knowledge of financial management and the legislation with which they are contacted when serving locations are operated. The main test should be to ensure that the controllers are aware of the duties of the trader towards the public. The majority argued that this also includes legal obligations in relation to the addition and the audience. The majority now see, as I said, positive that this is being done. Therefore, a supporter would like it to be an establishment test, that it should not depend on whether a municipality considered this to be advisable or not, but that it should be fixed for all. We do not believe that the need for such a test will vary from municipality to municipality, and it will have some distorting aspects of doing so from municipality to municipality. Therefore, the plurality will maintain the legal paragraph that is already attached, but has not been implemented, and we suggest that the regulations are designed in line with this. As I said, it is positive that the industry itself is addressing the problem and trying to find solutions. It should only be lacking that the powers of government do not follow up and support this. The regulations are to be formulated, and there will be strong points of view from the parties. I would like to point out that the plurality will allow close cooperation with the parties to design these regulations. There is a strong view of the regulations, and we think it is important that they be designed in cooperation with the parties. That doesn't mean that a complete proposal is made as a broadcaster on the listener – that's not what we mean by cooperation. The majority have also referred to exceptions to this general rule – we believe that regulations must be designed to allow directors who, through their education, can document the knowledge we are after, to be exempted from the requirement for an establishment test. We then think of managers with hotel high school and managers with a degree in current subject area who can document the electoral profession in established knowledge. There is simply one – I think it is – four hours of nationwide electoral education in this field in secondary school. We also ask the Ministry of Economic Affairs to contact the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research in order to assess whether it would be wise to make this choice of establishment compulsory. All the attempts that were made to improve the situation, we appreciate. We think this proposal is one of the good proposals. We hope that the industry itself will find other good proposals, and we ask for an evaluation of the system of inaugural examinations after two to three years. When the local authorities have the right to charge for this establishment trial, a single committee is to make it possible. We want it to be imposed on the person who is searching, to pay for the additional work this does to the municipalities. We hope that with this we can help the industry clean up a very important industry for Norway, which has major challenges in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e937	The case spokesperson has now done a good job for the history of the serving law, and I'm not going to say that much in addition. The government's starting point is always the time to make arrangements for 'Simplify Norway', and the suggestion that municipalities themselves can choose whether the controllers at the serving locations have to take the establishment test was an attempt to make the laws more flexible and adapt the situation where the serving location is actually located. But the plural will do something else. Many think that we have too many laws or arrangements that are adapted to Oslo and densely built strips, but that are inappropriate, or at least superfluous, in other parts of the country. We don't want any more such laws, but we note that the majority want uniform and mandatory arrangements. The Centre believes that a voluntary arrangement with the possibility of financial compensation for the collection of fees will be the best proposal, and I therefore make my proposal to the minority – from the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e948	Anita Apelthun's seal has taken up the suggestion to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e951	The right is pleased that there is now a majority who want to have an inaugural exam in all municipalities. It's pretty important to have it, because it's the industry itself that wants it. The National Association of Travel Companies, LO – i.e. those who really have a rush to get this law – wants to have it in all municipalities just to deal with a part of the crime that has entered this industry. Those who, to the extent proper in this industry, or at least trying to do it, want to learn a part of them that comes straight in from the street, and that just starts going on. There's also one of the reasons why the Right is happy that there's been a majority for exceptions to this test. It would be a wrong signal if people from Norwegian high school, who have taken the highest education we have in Norway in this field, had to go up to an inaugural test afterwards – within the subject they themselves are going to pursue. It's crazy to have such a system, and it certainly doesn't stimulate education. Therefore, it must have been a mistake the time it came into the law that it should not be an exception. That even those who have completed four years of learning have the opportunity to start a business within the subject in which they have been trained are good. It was just supposed to be missing! If we wish to have people with vocational training in this country, we must also ensure that something is achieved with this vocational training. It's going to be crazy if people are going to come straight out of the street, take an inaugural exam, and put them in line with those who have taken college, and with those who have had four years of apprenticeship. I am very pleased that the majority has now got this clear and clear in this position, but there is also a new proposition we have to settle in. It's the knowledge test that goes on the same thing, but I'm not going to take it now. We're going to do that next time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e960	The introduction of an inaugural test for operators at serving sites is primarily an instrument in the fight against economic crime, which has been a serious problem in parts of the food industry in recent years. In order to avoid unnecessary arrangements and regulations, however, the Government and I believe it is right that it should be up to the individual municipality to decide whether it is desirable to require the administrators at the local food serving points to take the inaugural test before a serving grant is granted. I therefore submitted in my proposal in the proposal that the individual municipality should either choose to introduce the inaugural test for all the serving points in the municipality, or none. I also proposed a permit for the department in the regulation of the establishment test to allow municipalities to charge a fee from the person who is to take the test. The amount of the fee will be laid down in the regulation. However, the majority of the business committee considers that the test should be mandatory for the municipalities. The idea behind the government’s proposal was that a voluntary scheme would become less bureaucratic, because the individual municipality itself would be able to assess the need for the test. It is the municipalities themselves that know the local conditions best in the food industry and are therefore the closest to knowing the need for the body. My proposal was designed in line with the principles of government policy for a simpler Norway and increased local autonomy. I note that the majority of the Committee does not emphasise these principles in the same way in this matter. Of course, I will take this into account in the further work, and at the same time I will stress that the most important thing in spite of everything is that the inaugural test will come into place now. The Committee agrees that municipalities must be able to charge a fee to individuals for the examination and that the amount of the fee is laid down in the regulation. The introduction of the fee also indicates that the test could have been carried out on a voluntary basis. With a fee option, the costs will not be decisive in not introducing the test if the municipality otherwise considers it necessary. With regard to the possibilities of exemption rules from the requirement for the establishment test, this must be reserved for specific training groups, such as: Norwegian hotel high school. In any case, I assume that the possibility to lay down such rules is provided for in the regulation of the serving law, and in such a way that the requirement to pass the inaugural test can be demonstrated by the training. An evaluation of measures to reduce crime in the industry should be carried out after both the food law in general and the inaugural trial have been particularly effective for some time. This can be done in an appropriate way by carrying out an evaluation of the entire food law after a three-year period of operation of the law, as a result, by the end of 2002.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e977	I'm going to try not to do this debate, but I just want assurance from the Council of State that he wants to cooperate with the parties when these regulations are to be designed. Because that's where we get the materialization of what's the goal of this decision, it only gives us an opportunity to work out regulations that seem to be the industry. And I really hope that the Council of State will take the recommendation to cooperate with the business partners in the process in order to get the regulations as good as mature play. I actually think that this, like so many other places, is so that those who wear the shoe know a lot about how it is to wear it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e982	Jan Johnsen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e987	I meant to take a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e994	The President will let these posts go as usual, assuming that the Council of State will come back.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e998	I was a little pulled up when the minister said that a derogation from the requirement to hold the inaugural exam could be granted on condition that Norwegian hotel high school can prove that they have the inaugural exam inside the syllabus. I have to ask the Minister directly: does the Minister think that we have a Norwegian hotel high school in this country, which lasts from two to five years, which does not have within the curriculum what those who come straight in from the street and from all the countries of the world will take a test of an hour or two? That this school does not have it in, is a direct under-recognition of education in the hotel industry. And I think the Council of State should be too good to express that. I think the Council of State should say clearly here that in the case of Norwegian hotel high school, it is quite obvious that it is doing this. And in the case of those who are going to take a diploma, we ask the Ministry of Church and Education to add this to the education, so that there will be no questions about it there either.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e1003	I first want to assure the representative Starrfelt that of course I and the department will listen to everyone who has something to spend on the regulation that is to be developed here. And there can be no doubt that it will be as good as possible. With regard to the last post, with a high temperature, I would like to say that the minister has nothing to believe in this context. The Minister has something to do with knowing that those who have an education that gives the same competence as that required for the inaugural exam are to be recognised, whether it be the Hotel College or other education. Unfortunately, I'm not here to believe anything about any education in Norway. But I'm going to make sure that those who can prove that they have the necessary competence will get it approved. Now I don't see any reason to express myself either about this school or about any other schools in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e1010	Several have asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 204]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e1025	The case concerns a central register for recreational craft and small boats, established in the Law of 19 August 1994. The Committee has examined this matter as a result of proposals by Kenneth Svendsen and Ulf Erik Knudsen. They proposed the repeal of that law and that it should be done without delay. The Committee has examined the various aspects of the case, including the fact that there was previously such a state register in Sweden, but that this was closed by the turn of the year 1992-93. Among other things, the answer given by Minister of Finance Gudmund Restad in letters of 12 October and 29 October 1999 to questions put by Mr Steinar Bastesen is included in the vote. Following the examination of the Committee, two proposals have been made in addition to the Committee's proposal for a decision. That is proposal No. 1 by the Right and Advance Party, and proposal No. 2, from the Left and myself. These proposals are included in the vote. The Committee refers to Document No. 8:64 for 1998-99 and for the foregoing, and appeals to Odelstinget to take such a decision: ‘The Grand Government is asking the Grand Government to submit to it an evaluation of the system of recording recreational and small boats after the 2001 boating season, so that the Grand Duchy can evaluate the scheme, by the spring 2002 at the latest. ‘... The Committee begs Odelstinget to join the Committee's proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e1047	The President assumes that Benn Mikalsen will bring up proposal No. 2 on behalf of itself and the Left. – It is confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e1050	The boat register has been within the financial committee a number of times, and it is not to be concealed that there is some concern about this register. The answers given by the Minister of Finance to questions raised by the Committee may indicate that the assumptions taken into account by the Stortinget in the establishment of this register are the same. And then what were those assumptions? – The assumption was that this register should be self-financing. The Committee has now found reason to stress precisely this wording – it should be self-financing – and that there should be no slippage on the cost side. Such a slip must be stopped, so that the registration fee will not exceed NOK 200 – 300, which we now see in the picture. On the part of the Labour Party, we would like to emphasise this with self-financing and a charge that is within reasonable limits – and as a reasonable limit, I have said 200-300 kroner. So to another question. I may seem to be a bit fluent, but we have also written in the notes that there is a real need for the Ministry and the Minister of Finance to come up with arguments and – I kept saying – claims that underpin the great advantages a boat register should have when it was created. I'm going to notice that, because it might be a little bit special that it's in the notes, but it's supposed to be beneficial with such a register, and they have to get heavier. Finally, I would also like to stress that we have now asked for a statement to be made in the budget next year, but the final evaluation we propose will be taken in 2002.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e1061	In 1989, Sweden introduced a law on compulsory registration of recreational craft. An investigation in 1992 found that the register had registered 270 000 boats and that the register was operated by 18 people. It was further stated that the register went with a large deficit. The Swedes took the consequences of this and closed the register. This should also have been done by Norway as the conditions for the Swedish register and the current Norwegian register must be said to be quite similar. When the Swedes closed their register, they at the same time opened up the possibility that insurance companies, boat organisations or others could use the collected material to start their own voluntary register. The Swedish Insurance Association then took the initiative to set up such a voluntary register. The Progress Party wants something similar in Norway. This register has worked and works well today. The register currently has two employees, compared with 18 in the previous register. Today's voluntary register costs approx. Two million. kr annually to be operated and paid by insurance companies, while the Norwegian register costs approx. 13.5 million. kr annually to be operated and payable by the individual at a fee. As stated in my post, the Progress Party does not object to the creation of a boat register, but this register should be based on volunteering and not coercion, as today's register. The party is convinced that one of the main reasons why a mandatory register was established in Norway was that the majority of people wanted to introduce another charge, for which the law also allows access. It is obviously not enough for the majority to pay a fee for the number of horsepower after a boat engine provider; logically, it also pays a toll on the petrol that a boat engine uses. The registration requirement is such that all boats which can be mounted on the engine are to be registered, i.e. rubber boats hanging in a plastic bag on the wall of the hub are to be registered. If not, there will be a threat of fine or imprisonment. It is further stated in the law that completed boat passes are to be in the boat at any time, and that customs, police or internal coastguard – as if they had nothing else to do – can check whether such a boat pass is in the boat. They may break into the holiday, on the holidays or on the fishing trip to carry out the inspection, and if the boat pass is not there, fines may be imposed. The check is complete and breaks into privacy in an improper way, and is a plague for the boat people who want some leisure time, including the boat crew. from the mass of the State and the impositions. There is obviously no refuge left for those who want some peace from the state interference. The State shall clearly know everything, and it shall also be confirmed when a reader has to register: the name of the owner, the marina or the place used, the municipality in which the boat is located, how the boat was purchased, the date on which the boat was purchased, the purchase contract shall be presented, the name of the boat, the length of the boat, the hull colour of the boat, the factory which built the boat, type approval, year of manufacture, hull material, engine number, engine performance, engine year of production, when the engine is installed, where the engine is produced, where the engine is located, the type of fuel used, and finally, in honour and conscience, the signature. In a letter dated 12 October of this year, the Minister of Finance wrote to the Financial Committee: ‘The Ministry finds it difficult to see that the Small Boat Register restricts the freedom of boat life. ‘... I find it a pity that Norway has a finance minister who doesn't see frequent controls in people's leisure and private life, with threats of fines and prisons if the papers are not in order, putting a damper on the joy of being at sea in her spare time. I understand that the Minister of Finance has no concern that the State should know everything about individuals and what they own, but I can assure the Minister of Finance that I believe with many people that this limits the freedom of boat life, and not least that it is an premature interference in privacy. With this in mind, I would like to address the proposal that the Progress Party has been promoting together with the Right in the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e1092	Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e1095	I suppose I can largely join the post Kenneth Svendsen made. It shows that the law adopted in 1994 on the registration of recreational craft and small boats, which has subsequently been incorporated into the law on recreational craft and small boats, which collects most of the legislation relating to such boats, is almost more complex than the law in the ship register. And it says something about the magnitude. At the same time, it is very poorly received by the boatmen. Most people have no sense of this law at all. I can also refer to the letter of 12 October to the Committee, where the Minister of Finance outlines all the good purposes for the establishment of the central boat register, and it is not a small matter that the register should be kept. It shall pursue maritime road safety objectives, research and social planning, environmental protection, preparedness objectives, tax collection, duties, customs duties and charges, insurance purposes, police investigations, consumer surveys and information. All these ‘good’ objectives resulted in a majority in the Grand Duchy in 1994 – which was not included in – that the register had to be publicly registered. But the paradox is that in today's position, the majority, which consists of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and SV, especially if a summary of the benefits that the arrangement brings to the boat people. They obviously have little faith in the good intentions of the Minister of Finance. The majority are clearly uncertain as to whether there are as many benefits to be taken into account in the past. One should notice that a summary of the negative sides they do not want, so they clearly have a full overview of. Through the evening post in the fall we were told that stolen boats could also be registered in the boat register. It was a buyer of a boat that checked in the register. The boat was registered there, and he felt safe and went to purchase this boat. A few months later, the police came and picked up the boat, because the boat register has no obligation whatsoever to check whether the boats being registered have been stolen. So it can also help criminals. The right has, as far as possible, opposed, voted against and proposed the removal of appropriations in the budget of this small boat register. So far, the register has consumed some 55 million. kr, even if the decision in the Storting is that it is to be self-financing. The Minister of Finance assumes in his letter to the Committee that it will take a further two to three years from now before the register is completed. Operating expenditure per year It is now about two years old. 3.5 million. kr. I have no idea that there can be a large majority in Stortinget that will spend as much money on a register as is carried out in Sweden by private people, who do not cost the boat owners anything, and who are voluntary – money that could have been used and used for other purposes that are far more needy and worthy than this small boat register.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e1108	As the representative of Kjellaug Nakkim just referred to in the letter from the Minister of Finance of 12 October, it is there, as it emerged in the debate in 1994, when this register was created, which was the purpose of its creation. It is a register that has been in operation for over a year and a half, and what the committee set up, as the representative Tore Nordtun and the spokesman for the case also did well, is that there must be some time before one can make a proper evaluation of both the disadvantages that have been claimed and which clearly emerged from the debate at the time the register was created, as it has also emerged in this debate, and the clear advantages that lie in having a register for the purposes for which it has been done well in the letter from the Minister of Finance. The members of the Committee of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party indicate that this system is relatively new and that the register does not have our operations for such a long time. As the representative Tore Nordtun also stated, the regulations were that this should be a self-sustaining system, and we ask that we be briefed in the 2001 budget on the distribution of this scheme to the boaters, and the economic situation around the boat register in Fredrikstad. On this basis, the members of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party end up with what is going on in the vote, and as the spokesperson of the cause and the representative of Nordtun previously have targets in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e1117	Me and Left have a joint proposal on the matter. The left went against the creation of this register in its time, and we from the Coastal Party are in principle opposed to a public register for recreational and small boats. We believe that this is an unnecessary state register. This register, as explained by the representatives Kjellaug Nakkim and Kenneth Svendsen, is an extra cost for the boat crew, and we can't participate in anything like that. However, in this case we have chosen to present our proposal that the register should be evaluated in spring 2001, not as proposed by the Committee, in 2002, but in 2001, which is my proposal and the Left. We agree that there should be an evaluation of what has been done in this case. Finally, I just want to refer to our proposal, it is unnecessary to read it out.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e1128	Taking into account the time of day, I am not going to extend the debate any more specifically. I do not have much more to say than I have stated in the letters attached as an attachment to the cancellation, where I have answered questions and also commented on the proposal itself. The reason for the register was already mentioned when the law was promoted, there is also a law promoted by a workers' party government, and I have also briefly reproduced the purposes of the register in my reply letter to the case-rapporteur Bastesen of 12 October 1999. This seems to me to be working out now. In addition, the majority have asked to have the matter mentioned in the 2001 budget already, so in the first round, information will be provided – in so far as we have it – and then an evaluation after the 2001 boat season is requested, which will of course be carried out, and then there is an opportunity to come back to the case. I cannot believe that this matter should have been so problematic, not economically, for most people, at least provisionally, as so far as registration has been made free of charge. The fee that is allowed to be introduced has not yet been introduced, but it is of course assessed whether it should be introduced if it is necessary to proceed with the registration, because there have been some problems in getting as many boats registered as we would have liked to have seen, in order to get the register as fully as possible. It is in the debate that reference was made to the scheme in Sweden, but which was terminated and replaced by a new one. I have the impression that many people believe that the new one became a good arrangement. But there it is that after the government plan was terminated, it has been lost, if you want to use that expression, approx. 110000 registration vessels, despite the fact that the number of boats in Sweden has increased in the same period. So at least it's obvious that the new register is far from complete, as you'd like to do in Norway. Finally, I would like to take up something that is both described in the proposal, and which Kenneth Svendsen also repeated here from the pulpit, that inflatable plastic boats with fixings for the engine are subject to registration under the law. It is an inaccurate representation of the actual situation, or the law in force, of boats not intended to be used with an engine, even if it is possible to install the engine on the boat, it is not mandatory to register. It is only when the engine is installed and the boat is placed on the water that it is subject to registration. That was the additional information I have now, and then I will come back to this on a couple of occasions later.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e1143	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 204]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e1151	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1-14.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e1157	The President will first draw attention to the fact that the proposals No. 1 and 2 from the Progress Party, has not been tabled, as there is already a vote on similar proposals in connection with the examination of the Inst. S. No 78 in Stortinget earlier today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e1309	The progress party has warned that they are going against the referenced terms, while the right goes towards the third term. So we're going to add it to the third term.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e1319	It goes over the first, fifth and sixth terms.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e1391	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e1399	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e1406	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1 and 2, by Jan Tore Sanner, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 3, from Gunnar Kvassheim on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left Proposal No. 3 has not been submitted within the regulatory period, but since the proposal concerns an incurrence in the suspension, the President will nevertheless propose that it be dealt with together with the suspension. It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President first refers to proposal No. 1 from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for various alternative mechanisms to strengthen the legal position of the owner in the field of the preservation of cultural memories, including the introduction of a separate state paragraph in the Cultural Memory Act, and the question of whether the State should fully cover the costs of specific scrutiny for the implementation of measures, as stated. the Ministry of Culture, Section 10. The aim must be to ensure a better ball rating between the obligations imposed by the State and the rights held by the holder of a cultural memory. The government is asked to return to the Stortinget in an appropriate form during the year 2000. ‘... This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e1483	The Progress Party has announced that they are moving towards the entire legislative amendment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e1515	For the seventh paragraph, an aberrant proposal, No. 2, from the right:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e1707	Here the Progress Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e1718	We shall then vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘II The law will come into force from the time the King decides. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e1733	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Progress Party will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e1745	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e1755	B will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e1761	During the debate, Mr Vaksdal, on behalf of the Progress Party, put forward a proposal. The President will propose that this proposal be voted on first, which reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e1799	The President here will refer to the second paragraph of Paragraph 29 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e1838	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e1846	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e1882	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e1890	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e1897	During the debate, Mr L. Stang, on behalf of the Progress Party, put forward the following proposals: ‘The Government supports the establishment of a lottery monitoring body and asks the Government to take the necessary measures with a view to the establishment of a lottery monitoring body and to propose amendments to the Lottery Act, in line with the Innst observations. O. No 33 [[1999 - 2000]] This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e1931	This Roman numeral will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e1976	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e1984	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e2035	The Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e2045	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Labour Party and the Socialist Left will also vote against this. - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e2057	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e2103	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e2111	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e2205	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e2213	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e2304	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e2312	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e2360	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e2368	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e2374	During the debate, a proposal was put forward by Anita Apelthun Säle on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e2413	There is an alternative proposal from the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e2449	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e2457	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e2463	During the debate on this matter, two proposals have been put forward. It's: proposal No 1, by Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 2, from Benn Mikalsen on behalf of the Left and the representative Benn Mikalsen The President first refers to proposal No. 2, from the Left and the representative Benn Mikalsen. The proposal reads: ‘The government is asking the Government to present to it a major evaluation of the system of registration of recreational craft and small boats after the 2000 boat season, so that the Stortinget will be able to evaluate the scheme, since the autumn of 2001. ‘... This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure. Proposal No. 1, from the Advancement Party and the Right, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Decision to the Act amending Law No 25 June 1998 47 on recreational craftIn the Law of 26 June 1998 No. 47 in recreational and small craft the following amendment is made:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-16-lower-2.ana.ud1919e2511	The referenced draft decision will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure. Case No. 15, Unit, has already been processed.
