ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-lower.ana.ud1831e40	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for a sequence change of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers from each party group and from members of the Government. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-lower.ana.ud1831e51	: Fisheries policy is a topic for which there is every reason to be busy. As far as there is no reason to leave the hall – but it is now another matter. Fish resources represented a value of over NOK 34 billion in 1998. At that time, both catch and farming, exports and halls are considered to be domestic. The results for years to come depend on how well we manage these resources. In the first row, the fall is consistent with what the sea can give. This is primarily a responsibility for fishermen directly, but there is also a heavy responsibility for Norwegian fisheries governance in that context. More is needed in order to provide better advice on the extent to which the various fish stocks are tolerable, and measures need to be put in place to give us a better overview of the number of fish caught. It is only if all the data are correct when incorporated into calculation models that we can be sure that the estimates of the individual fish stocks are as accurate as possible. The unit quota scheme is, in the Committee's view, one of the answers to the challenge of adapting the fishing capacity to the resource base. With a unit quota scheme, it will be up to the individual fishing boat owner to adjust the fishing capacity and investments to the quota base he or she has. Fishing boats can be better paid for, and there may be work arrangements that provide leisure for fishermen. It's positive. The system should also facilitate the freedom of design of vessels. In this way, the design can be more precise in relation to the use of the boat rather than a design of the boat in order to adapt to paragraphs regulating the design of the vessels in the various fisheries in a nine-time manner. Not only can some of the creations look strange, but they can also represent a security risk, and it is much worse. Int. O nr. 38 for 1998-99, the Committee states: ‘The Committee will point out that the fishing resources belong to the Norwegian people, jointly. Therefore, there are basically no individuals or individual companies that can be granted eternal exclusive rights to harvest those resources free of charge, while others are excluded from fishing.» [[and serve]] I'm glad that a group committee ends up about this vision. The Committee believes it is a strength that there are many operators of varying sizes in the fishing industry and that it is positive that many can become owners or co-owners of a fishing vessel. This has led to concern that the allowances have accumulated in a few hands. There may be grounds for further examination of the allocation of fishing quotas between individuals and individual companies and purely geographically. It is necessary to further develop rules to prevent the unfortunate accumulation of fishing vessels with limited concessions and to take geographical and regional considerations. The continuation of the unit quota system must ensure that new generations can become vessel owners as well, without having an almost no part-like system as access to the possibility of becoming owner of a fishing boat. The time limit for the scheme is 10 and 13 years for alternate Greenland shrimp trawls and ring nets and cod trawls. The majority in the Committee believe it is important that this time limit be continued. An award made by the Norwegian School of Commerce and the Foundation for Social and Business Research in Bergen shows that the system for the cod trawl fleet must last 10-15 years with a double cod quota to provide the necessary impetus for the use of the scheme. This way, the recommended time limit will depend on safe calculation methods. Coastal and marine fisheries represent two fisheries complementary to each other. If we are to have a structural adjustment, the distribution between the two groups must be fixed over time, because those who take the noise to adapt to the resource base should be able to be confident that they will also benefit from the result of this adjustment. This was clearly underlined by a committee in the management of the perspective notification and was also the basis for the Committee's decision today. It must be possible to arrive at a distribution between the two groups so that each of them knows what they have to stick to. This is particularly important because we cannot do much with the fluctuations in nature. What we can do is equip us with tools that ensure us the best possible knowledge of the resource situation, for example. increase the emphasis on research. On the continuation of the unit quota system, there is an overall committee that believes that there should be no need to facilitate the interconnection of quotas between the coastal and sea fishing fleets. The Committee expressed its opinion in the context of the perspective communication and today's vote: ‘The Committee points out that the fishing industry is dependent on nature and is exposed to natural fluctuations. The extraction must therefore be managed by a resilient greenhouse of the resources.’» The Committee has agreed that the scheme will be continued, but it is worth noting that a joint committee is asking for the arrangements to be made applicable to vessels below 28 metres and the limits in this case are natural. It's probably no secret that up to several parties have thought that 70 feet could probably be going on. It is absolutely necessary to proceed in the process of achieving objectives other than the length of the vessel when the distinction between coastal and sea fleets is to be achieved. It is today that the technology has largely lifted the 28 m/s separation between vessels. These groups of vessels like to fish with the same type of vessel and in the same area. Then something doesn't match. Frames will be completely different for the same fish. I would like to ask the Minister for Fisheries to pay attention to this and do not hesitate to get this work started and finished within a reasonable time. The point of the unit's quota scheme is that it should be capacity-adapted. It is not useful to fool yourself into thinking that fish resources will increase monthly. There is too much pressure on fish resources nationally and globally today. It's up to us to put power behind the words that we're assuming that fishing is going to be carried out in a sustainable way. In the evening post of March 11, this year, it is indicated that up to 70 p.m. fishing resources in the world are overestimated. The fishing take-off ceiling has been reached for the longest time in the Atlantic and the Pacific. The fishing fleet must be reduced by 30 pst., my FAO. Despite the fact that there is increased understanding of the trust for better management of resources, we do not have the power to avoid over-fishing and resource-depleting fishing methods, cork globally or at home. It must be time to look at our regulatory approach in such a situation. Is it that we lack political will to cut quotas and regulate fishing rights? Do we have control of the vessels that are being flagged? Although unit quotas are intended to improve the profitability of the individual fishing boat, it is equally important that capacity is reduced as a result of the scheme. The one hangs closely with the other. But is it good enough for Norwegian fishing interests that only the boat is out of sight, is he also out of mind? You're all hurt, aren't you? I am concerned that it was not possible to get the committee on crystal clear leads that the fishing boat that is released by collecting quotas from two vessels on a boat is actually going out of the fish. What is the benefit of the pressure on fishing resources if the overshooting boat returns to fishing, whether in another geographical area and/or under a new flag? We like bad fishing that goes into unregulated sea areas. But it's not so precise if a Norwegian boat represents capture capacity that needs to find a bait to secure its output and return. The idea is not to reject well used boats, but the requirement that a corresponding vessel must leave the vessel is absolutely necessary if we are not to have a capacity build-up rather than a reduction, which is absolutely necessary. In the above article: ‘When the surplus vessels are taken out of a type of fishing, the fishing authorities must ensure that the vessels are not put into another fishing operation. The international community must recognise that fleet capacity needs to be adjusted in relation to fisheries, warns the FAO.’» Quite rightly, there is a comprehensive committee which points to the fact that the system must be effective and that, besides, it is a requirement that ships should not be translated in a way contrary to national fisheries interests. It will be interesting to follow in how Norwegian fishing interests are defined on the basis of such a recommendation. On the part of the Labour Party, it is clear that, in our view, if the sale of vessels that become available after quotas have been merged, it would be contrary to Norwegian fishing interests and would lead to an increase in capacity seen. It's a very important area we're dealing with here today, and it takes the greatest seriousness to end up on the right side. For the worst that can happen to us, if we were to come into the situation that boats that were actually freed from this system, would end up in other fisheries and be under pressure of resources. There is a situation that I believe both the Committee, the Minister for Fisheries and the fisheries industry should have an interest in getting the right cool. I would like to recommend this setting and would like to indicate that the minority proposals will be addressed by minority representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-lower.ana.ud1831e124	In the present position, there was no majority for what I would call significant changes in the saltwater fishing law, so you could say that the tension in the setting was missing. If the Committee had really meant something about capacity adjustments to reduce fishing overcapacity, it would have followed the proposals of the Progress Party to extend the unit quota scheme to include vessels down to 15 metres. This would be an important contribution from the coastal fishing fleet. The Ministry of Fisheries is clear that a unit quota system should not be a system of transferable quotas. However, the Committee welcomes the fact that it has agreed to establish that the single quota system is designed to strengthen the profitability of each fishing vessel. It is also positive that there are many operators of varying sizes in the Norwegian fishing industry. And it's not least positive that many can become owners or joint owners of fishing vessels. It is therefore necessary to facilitate the possibility for new generations to become shipowners. In the coastal fishing fleet, the establishment threshold is low. Recruitment opportunities are therefore good and self-ownership is widespread. However, the coastal fleet is characterised by overcapacity, low profitability and lack of access to capital. In order to strengthen coastal fishing as an autonomous way of life and as a combined industry, unit quotas should also be introduced for all regulated coastal fisheries. The Progress Party believes that the introduction of unit quotas for large parts of the coastal fleet will reduce overcapacity and improve profitability. Another thing is that with unit allowances, the individual vessel owner can assess for himself whether it is profitable to buy a unit allowance or join another allowance holder in order to operate more rationally together. The Party of Progress will also indicate that development in the industry means that the boundary between the sea fishing fleet and the coastal fishing fleet should be set at 21,3 metres. It is apparent from one of the party's proposals. The Progress Party had hoped that it would have been possible to establish a majority of conclusions and proposals that, as I said, had been more exciting. In particular, we had hoped that the Workers' Party had followed up the views of the Advance Party to assess a rent. The proposal that it is in substance and form balanced, and it is therefore strange that it should be provocative that the Storting asks the Government to carry out an investigation into a resource tax, and – as it says – ‘asks further that appropriate measures for such a charge are investigated’ and then sent to the Stortinget. The proposal is therefore mild in its form. The Progress Party is pleased with the unanimous position of the Committee, where the Size Requests the Government to determine whether unit allowances may be applied to vessels less than 28 metres. This is a step in the right direction, even though the Progress Party could imagine a longer step, down to 15 meters. I refer to the motion for a resolution by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, no. 1-5, which is included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-lower.ana.ud1831e143	The representative of Terje Knudsen has taken up the suggestions he made.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-lower.ana.ud1831e146	The world has too little fish. The demand is larger than the one you can offer. Norway has a lot of fish and thus a very valuable resource for the world community. So it's important that we manage this resource so that it can feed on the table over and over again. The FAO has come with strong warnings against overfishing, and thinks that the world's fishing fleet must be reduced, and that the catch of fish must be controlled. The Christian People's Party is, to a large extent, in agreement with it. And the government's proposal on unit allowances is that one should achieve that fishing capacity is more adapted to the resource base. The aim is also to strengthen the operational base for those involved in fishing by allowing quotas from two or more boats to be merged. Then it will be easy to get a boat left over. It must not be translated in a way that is contrary to national fishing interests, says a single committee. Of course, it is important that we do not depreciate our responsibility for overcapacity in world fishing. Norway must work to ensure that countries with which we have fisheries agreements also do not increase capacity in its fleet when quotas cannot be increased. Therefore, it is also important that fishing boats purchased from Norway should be replaced for even older and smaller vessels. But this has to be negotiated in case. Refusing such a hall would be untimely, and the economic side of it would either stop the renewal of a relatively old fishing fleet, a renewal we have said before would be inconvenient, or, alternatively, it would cost the state very much. Most importantly, quotas are exceeded and the control of fishing is good enough. A unit allowance scheme provides for the management of fish resources to be long-term and, as far as possible, expected for those who are in the industry. A fishing boat is a huge investment, and the fisherman cannot live with uncertainty as to whether he or she has fishing rights for next year. One has to create the systems so that each fish also thinks and plans in the long term, so that we can preserve fish resources for future generations as well. Cooperation and understanding with the practitioners is a key entry to close. The Norwegian coast is long, and many communities have long fishing traditions and depend on fishing. It is important to distribute scarce resources. That is to the extent the very definition of political work. The Christian People's Party believes that both the geographical and personal distribution of fishing rights is important to sustain. The difference between the sea and the coastal fleet is difficult to determine from the length of the boat. We've got a lot of strange boats, so-called paragraph boats, because the meter decided the design, and it's too stupid. The Committee therefore calls on the Government to implement parameters other than length targets to distinguish the coastal fleet from the sea fleet. It is unthinkable that for a boat of 28 m there is a completely different code than for a boat of 27 m, although they both have the same equipment, the same cabin and the same capacity. The Committee therefore asks the Government to assess whether the unit quota system can also be applied to vessels less than 28 m. The design of the vessel can then be freed for the benefit of all. The Centre Party is pleased that the Government has a number of proposals for the continuation of the Device Quota Scheme, and I therefore recommend it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-lower.ana.ud1831e167	The rapporteur has gone through the matter quite clearly that we are dealing with today. During the 1990s, a unit quota scheme was introduced for the trawl and ring net fleet. A unit quota may be transferred from one vessel to another, allowing for the aggregation of allowances from several vessels. The unit allowance scheme differs from freely tradable allowances, where control of the resource quota has been detached from the ownership of a vessel. The unit quota system ensures that the person controlling a quota is himself engaged in the fishing industry, either as an active fisherman or as the owner of a fishing vessel. The basic interest rate in fisheries is therefore largely maintained in the industry itself and can be used, for example, for investment in the fleet, for industrial development, for research, for development and for marketing purposes. It also contributes to the extraction of available capacity and to the faster renewal of the fleet. The right considers the scheme to be an important contribution to improving capacity-adjustment and also a contribution to enhanced economic profitability in industry. The system naturally also contributes to the withdrawal of vessels from fishing where appropriate. The scheme is an important contribution to increased profitability and self-determination in the fishing industry. We stress that this is a voluntary scheme, where fishermen themselves must continually consider what is most appropriate. For the right, it is also important that the fisherman himself — and not the directorate or department — decide on the investment and replacement of vessels. It is the fisherman himself who decides and is best placed to assess the profitability of the replacement, capacity adjustment and investment. The aim is to strengthen the operational basis for participating ships. The right also underlines the environmental and resource conditions that can be beneficially linked to and around the unit quota system. There will always be a considerable overcapacity within the fleet, a pressure on resources and thus a quota struggle. Economic incentives must therefore also be used to reduce capacity. And I believe that the unit quota system in this context is an important contribution. I am somewhat uncertain about what the Workers' Party really means by its particular comment in this area, where it is claimed that it would be contrary to national fishing interests if the sale of vessels to other countries leads to capacity increase. In this case, only the sale of vessels to countries with which there is no fishing agreement can occur. The working party has also failed to take account of the introduction of a new form of conditioning system. What you're actually doing is taking away the incentives to get a voluntary withdrawal from the ship. In that case, it'll be a contribution to not fully implementing the scheme, so I think it's really not very feasible. On the right, we stress that vessels leaving the existing quota system cannot be used or sold afterwards if the sale of vessels is contrary to national fishing interests. And that means that it must be irrelevant to convert Norwegian vessels into countries we do not have an agreement with, or to interests that are already on some so-called blacklist, whether it be due to predatory fishing or other conditions. The unit quota system also provides for simplification in many areas. More regulation can be removed through an extension of the scheme, and a reduction in management, red tape and management of fisheries will be facilitated. When we ask for an investigation from the Government to remove the 13-year time limit for the disposal of unit allowances, it's because we want to give the industry a more long-term horizon for investment. It will increase access to the capital of the industry and thus make the single quota system a stronger tool for long-term investment and capacity adjustment. In that case, such a reform must be combined with the introduction of a resource charge. For the right, in this case, there are two issues that are particularly important. One is referred to as the profitability factor, and the other is the resource situation. We underline the importance and importance of active ownership, while stressing – as part of the current fisheries policy debate – the need for vertical integration and the industry's own responsibility to facilitate greater cooperation. Of course, from the Right, there is the need for profitability in the fishing industry that weighs most, and for better adaptation of fishing capacity, as we stress. However, it should be a paradox for more than the Right that the Workers' Party and the Government's parties today are taking only half a step in the right direction. For the Right, naturally, the unit quota, when introduced, would have to be introduced for all regulated fisheries. This means that it must also apply to the coastal fishing fleet. First, if the unit quota scheme is a good instrument for increased profitability, for value creation and capacity adjustment in the marine fleet, the same reasoning must apply to the coastal fishing fleet. However, the majority refuses to introduce the single quota system for coastal fishing and chooses to give the coastal fishing fleet worse framework conditions than the sea fishing fleet. It is timely to ask the majority why they want to make coastal fisheries such a disadvantage. On the other hand, the right is proposing today to introduce a separate unit quota scheme for regulated coastal fisheries. It will strengthen profitability and provide more robust jobs. Nevertheless, it is gratifying to record a certain movement from the other batches, which are involved in asking the Government to determine the unit quota system in place for vessels below 28 metres. Finally, the right wishes to give greater and more central place to the profitability perspective and freedom of choice in fisheries. That's why we're on the right track today, even though there's a good deal left for the goal. On this basis, I take up the Right proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-lower.ana.ud1831e193	Ivar Kristiansen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-lower.ana.ud1831e198	When it comes to the representative, Kristiansen, at least seemingly glad that the majority has taken half a step when it comes to making the unit quotas apply also to the coastal fleet, we can only say that the proposal before us has not seen a delimitation downwards. One of the reasons why this proposal is designed in this way is that, in the recommendation of the Government's motion for a resolution, there is not really an assessment that made it natural to go straight on such a decision, so it must be a little bit in the light of it. But there's actually another thing I wanted to focus on, and that's the apparent lack of interest in the global situation in the fishing industry. In the past, we have had the Rio Conference, which is the expression: think globally and act locally. Well, that's what this is all about. If we do not want to participate and take responsibility for how the pressure on fish resources is developing globally, our local potential for fishing will be compromised sooner or later. So I could imagine challenging the representative of Kristiansen from the Right if he could make it clear to the Odelsting to what extent the Right feels an interest in the global situation when it comes to pressure on the fish resources.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-lower.ana.ud1831e205	I can assure the Workers' Party representative Rita Tveiten that we have a heart that beats at least as much for the global situation as what you are able to exercise on behalf of the Workers' Party. The introduction of the Unit Allowance Scheme is an important contribution to adapting capacity to the resource situation we have at all times. In the right-hand view, it is therefore necessary to introduce this system, not to take half a step; this system must cover all fisheries. With overcapacity we know well in this room that pressure it is at all times to give increased allowances. We have seen that in the last few years, and have enough evidence to show that we have not chosen to follow the advice of the experts, the advice of fisheries research, for the withdrawal of quotas. Therefore, this claim falls slightly on its own unfairness. The most important thing is that, in the national context, we have a policy that enables us to exercise control, that we allow Coast Guards to follow that situation, and not least that we are tightening up enough to have fisheries agreements with the countries that are set to manage migratory populations that cross borders, not least in our waters. I'm sure Rita Tveiten knows that the Right would like to sit in the driver's seat and contribute to the interests of the nation and the planet in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-lower.ana.ud1831e213	It's very good with verbal descriptions of the temperature of the heart. In other circumstances, we might be able to check to what extent it really works when it comes to the problem, at least in relation to the responsibility for the global fisheries situation. What makes me want to follow up here is that Right says clearly that it must be possible to sell Norwegian fishing boats that are left over in connection with the continuation of the unit quota system, to other countries. Does the representative of Kristiansen believe that this will result in less pressure on fishing resources? Does the representative of Kristiansen believe that a boat sold to a country with which we have a fishing agreement cannot be reselled to a country with which we do not have a fishing agreement and thus increase the pressure on the total fishing resources? You have to ask, how blue does it work?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-lower.ana.ud1831e220	I think in many ways it's better to be blue-eyed than blind, because here you can wonder who it is to guard the guard in this context. Norway wants to take on this role, but if you think carefully about it in this context, I'm not sure this will be a simple problem. I think the Labour Party's contribution to this debate has the exact opposite effect of what you want. There's no contribution, there's no economic incentive to deliver the quota if you have a vessel that goes out of the fishery, and you don't get any world things left for. It would be resource abuse not to let a boat that, for example, is 15 years old, replace a boat that is 25 years old, which, not least, this nation has so fluttered off. I therefore do not fear this kind of implementation that we add up to, and I feel relatively reassuring when I see that the Workers' Party is the minority in this context. And I repeat that the effects of the Workers' Party's note – not suggestions, I record – will be a slower possibility of introducing unit quota schemes, which are a strong contribution to adapting the structure of the resource situation. And that's what's important. We have fisheries agreements with the largest fishing nations in the northern regions. We need to continue to cooperate constructively with these, including, if necessary, the sale – and yield – of vessels. Not least in relation to Russia. But we can't run with a watch portfolio to see where it is ever owned by vessels owned by nordics or built in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-lower.ana.ud1831e227	Ivar Kristiansen said it's better to have blue eyes than to be blind, but I want to stress that the blind can also have blue eyes. With regard to both the Norwegian Fisheries Team, the Norwegian Fisheries Association and the Norwegian Nature Conservation Association, they have clearly objected to unit quotas within the coastal fishing fleet. You see that it's the marine fleet that argues that you also have to open up unit quotas here. I want to ask Ivar Kristiansen how he wants to resist, among other things. from Norway’s Fiskarlag and the Norwegian Nature Conservation Association, when he says that this is good fisheries policy in a global perspective and, as far as I can understand him, also in relation to proper resource management. Does not Ivar Kristiansen see that the arguments put forward by these bodies may indicate that quotas on fewer hands and a management that weakens the coastal fishing fleet also provide a resource management for fish that will be unfortunate both in an environmental and global perspective?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-lower.ana.ud1831e236	I think one of Finnmark's biggest problems today is because of the lack of profitability in the main bearer of the coast of Norway: the fisheries. It has a lot of reasons, and it's not possible to frame them up here. But what Ballo is making himself a spokesman for today is that we are going to allow this overcapacity situation and the lack of profitability to continue, with a reinforced pressure on the resource situation. So this is a situation that's going to persist, and in my opinion, it plays a small role who you come and wave into this case by organizations, teams and associations that have a different view than the Right on this issue. In this case, the right front is to try to adapt the fleet and resource situation, and unit quota schemes are one of the best contributions in this context. Whether it has any major effect on Ballo or not, I do not know, but it might be tempting to ask him to register that the Workers' Party is halfway around. The same is true of government parties. Whether these have seen the light or not, or whether it's due to blue eyes, should be unspoken, but I think that even Ballo, by thinking about it, sees it as important – for two reasons: for capacity reasons and in order to increase profitability, to have more robust jobs – to take steps fully and introduce unit quota schemes also in coastal fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-lower.ana.ud1831e243	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-lower.ana.ud1831e246	Globally, overcapacity is a threat to the fishing industry. In Norway, most fish species of commercial importance are exempt. It implies the fixing of total quotas for the fishing of the species concerned. Therefore, overcapacity is primarily a profitability problem and, to a lesser extent, a threat to resources within regulated fisheries. This is not the case in some other countries. Action against overcapacity is important in order to improve fleet profitability and thus provide the basis for increased renewal. Furthermore, improved profitability is a prerequisite for the fleet to offer jobs and ensure recruitment. Paragraph 5a of the Saltwater Fishing Act allows today to allocate the group quotas allocated to the trawler and purse seine fleet in a way that deviates from the normal system for determining vessel quotas. It is now proposed to extend its scope to include the concessional jet and ring-fleet fleet and, in addition, to vessels over 28 metres in length fishing with conventional access-restricted gear. The unit quota schemes are currently a good instrument for capacity adjustment and for improving profitability. A slight simplification may well be that by introducing unit quota schemes, a relative allocation of allowances between vessels in a group changes for a period, thus stimulating capacity withdrawal. Unit quota schemes are, in addition to being a capacity-regulating instrument, also a good instrument for the implementation of other fisheries policy objectives. When designing each regulation, one may take into account the geographical distribution of fishing rights, employment, owner concentration, etc. In order for the unit quota system to work, it is necessary, inter alia, to: the following assumptions are present: Fishing must be permanently restricted.Fishing should be vessel quota regulated.The rate of utilisation of the group should be high. Such assumptions are currently largely present in the sea fishing fleet, but to a small extent in the coastal fishing fleet. If one of the current coastal fleet regulation systems were to introduce unit quota schemes, it would easily lead to capacity increase rather than reduction, which was intended. Vessels fishing only a small percentage of their maximum quota could be the subject of aggregation with existing or more efficient new buildings fishing their entire quota. Work on legislative changes has been a major consultation round. The proposal is mainly supported by stakeholders, such as: Norway's Fiskarlag, such as states the following: ‘With reference to point 17 of the above Decision, the Norwegian Fisheries Team supports the continuation of the established unit quota schemes for cod trawls, purse seine and Greenland shrimps. Norway's Fiskarlag therefore has no objection that the law of the saltwater fishing law § 5a is made permanently for these groups.» However, I have also noticed the statements of the Nordland County Municipality and the Trom County Municipality expressing concerns about the introduction of a unit quota scheme for the coastal fishing fleet. I would like to place great emphasis on these consultation opinions since the regional levels in question are working a great deal to facilitate the fishing industry. This is an industry that is crucial for very many coastal communities. I have indirectly suggested scepticism for a unit quota scheme as a good tool for coastal fishing fleets with vessels less than 28 metres. But that discussion will wait until the investigation from the department is available. Otherwise, the Committee's recommendations as formulated in section 4 of the opinion are recommended.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-lower.ana.ud1831e288	The Minister for Fisheries received a counterclaim when the consultation note was sent out last year. The reaction from the fisheries organisations and from the county councils in the north was cash and not to be misunderstood. The Minister for Fisheries also opened unit quotas to the coastal fleet, and so he got that counterclaim. He thought he was misunderstood and left the course. That's good. It is important that the legal text does not allow unit quotas for the coastal fleet. These are the negotiability of fishing resources and the privatisation of Community resources and the closure of the general public. It would be to convert the right of use into a right of ownership for the few, a right of ownership that can be traded and sold. However, we in SV are sceptical about continuing and expanding today's system of unit quotas. There is an overcapacity in the jet and ring fleet, and there is a poor distribution of resources between fleet types, where the coastal fleet has been lost. We don't solve it by collecting allowances and exporting overcapacity. It's overinvested, and it gets those who have overinvested to take the consequences off. The current unit allowances scheme has not been evaluated. We don't know the whole and the consequences of the scheme. It is claimed that unit quotas can provide better profitability because they involve fewer boats in the field with larger catches per year. boat – it could be. But at the same time, it means that a resource that was previously free of charge now has to be paid to access it. The right becomes available for sale. Overcapacity in the jet and ring fleet may be correct diagnosis, but unit allowances may be insane medicine. The proposal in Section 5a of the Act extends the unit quota for boats over 28 metres. We in SV will vote against it on the assumption that we will not extend a scheme that we do not believe works, a scheme that is not evaluated. We also want to vote against II and point B. We see no reason to figure out whether the unit system can be applied to boats under 28 meters. We hope that those who went to the offensive against the Ministry's hearing notes will be ready for the autumn so that they can meet a new attempt to introduce unit quotas for the coastal fleet with an even stronger counteroffensive.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-lower.ana.ud1831e305	Norwegian fishing industry has experienced positive developments for several years. Export value increases year by year. Wages and salaries have improved in large parts of the fleet, but there are considerable differences. The industry is facing major challenges. Proper government intervention in meeting these targets is important in order to achieve social objectives for industry, such as sustainable resource management, increased profitability, safe and good jobs, good recruitment and maintenance of housing. This government has addressed the challenges in a professional and political way. Reference is made here to the perspective message and the overall goals and leads it pulls up. As one of several positive individual measures, concrete removal of the annual investment framework for new construction of fishing boats is mentioned. This has led to greater flexibility and removed many frustrations for people in the industry. The government deserves a good word for its handling of Norwegian fisheries policy, but I am also so free to refer to the thorough and serious consideration the matter has received in the committee, and here I would like to highlight, in particular, the genuine and strong commitment of case-rapporteur Rita Tveiten to find the best overall solutions for the fisheries industry. Knowledge technology has led us to have a fishing fleet with overcapacity in most fleet groups. All – and most of the industry itself – have benefited from the introduction of mechanisms to stimulate capacity-adjustment. Unit allowances are a good system for adapting capacity to the resource base, thus ensuring a good operational basis for the participating vessels. When the existing scheme is continued and in addition equivalent arrangements are put in place for vessels over 28 metres in length fishing with conventional gear and with access restrictions, it is important to underline the Committee's clear notification that the Government is also issuing the unit quota scheme for vessels below 28 metres and returns to it in the context of the 2000 budget. In this context, the Left and the Centre will point to the Committee's comments in the context of the Communication of Perspectives. It was noted that the technology has largely lifted the 28-metre/lower separation and that these groups are far on the road fishing with the same type of gear. As a consequence, the distinction between sea and coastal fishing needs to be explored in order to produce parameters other than the length of the vessel. Furthermore, from an overall committee, there is a clear emphasis on the need for stability and the most predictable framework of the fishing industry. Organisations must contribute more strongly to finding long-term allocations of the fishing quota between sea and coast. This is essential for the industry to have confidence in the unit quota system and the willingness to invest heavily in order to buy out capacity. Only when it is in place is the time to look at the possibility of a later assessment of the introduction of resource interest rates in industry. Therefore, the proposals of the Party of Advancement and the Right to investigate this now, the accession of the Centre Parties, are not received. The application of the unit quota system involves the withdrawal of vessels from fishing activities. Vessels shall not be placed on the market in such a way as to conflict with national fishing interests. These wordings do not eliminate a secondary market for vessels withdrawn from fishing operations. In this case, it would have undermined the entire unit quota system. Instead of being sold to third countries to which Norway does not have an influence, the aim must be to sell vessels to countries with which we have a fisheries agreement. This also brings confidence to our partners. This trust is an essential basis for cooperation on the common objective of adapting capacity to the resource base.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-lower.ana.ud1831e328	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-lower.ana.ud1831e331	It is gratifying to hear that the prejudiced environmental party Left aims to ensure that the unit allowances scheme does not act as a capacity-enhancing mechanism, but rather as a capacity-adapting mechanism. – Adaptive to what? Is it appropriate to the resource situation we have here in Norway now, with pressure on fish resources? Is it also capacity-fitting from an international perspective? The representative of Kongshaug was busy that if there was no way to sell these vessels that become vacant in connection with unit allowances to other countries, it would lead to an undermining when it comes to getting the whole system on the air. Where, then, is the international responsibility for which the Left normally ploughs itself? Finally, could I imagine that the representative Kongshaug gave a little insight into what he sees as being contrary to national fisheries interests? Is it e.g. contrary to national fishing interests if more than one boat appears in our unregulated waters, the so-called Muttavet?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-lower.ana.ud1831e341	First, I have to be allowed to make corrections – perhaps it was a delay from the representative Tveiten. She said the former environmental party left. It's wrong, it's the environmental party left still. So to the matter. It is important in all respects that to achieve realistic objectives — including environmental policy — a set of rules and objectives is necessary to achieve them in reality. If one has put in place a system where one in connection with the unit quota system has said that a vessel to be sold from a shipowner cannot be sold to another or to other countries, I think the unit quota system had stopped completely. We had no longer had an average age on the Norwegian fishing fleet of 23 years, but it would have increased significantly. And it cannot, of course, be the intention of Norwegian fisheries policy that we should put ourselves in such a position that we will further slow down in terms of fleet renewal. As far as cooperation with other countries is concerned, I feel that there is some distrust when we, if we sell a vessel to a country like us, for example. have a fisheries agreement, with which Russia believes that this increases the withdrawal of resources. We have a fisheries agreement, and why should not the nation then be allowed – if there are shipowners who have wanted it – to renew their ship by buying a vessel, for example. from Norway, and rather let an older and less adapted vessel go out? We have to think about the environment in relation to resource use, oil use, etc., and that is also an element in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-lower.ana.ud1831e350	The representative of Kongshaug claimed that if a boat cannot be sold out of Norwegian fishing following the device quota system, it will stop completely. What I underlined in my main post was that it was not the intention, that one could not use what are good used boats, even if they were involved in a unit quota scheme. The point is, how can a person meet a challenge where a person comes up with a form of makeshift that involves an old hole that should have been out of fish? Now this is probably going to be some kind of poverty problem, that those who can get a hole they can get out of the sea and fish will do it, and they will search for areas where no one has sovereignty or full authority today, where they can afford to fish. That's what's the big challenge, and I think that at least the party that I want to call the prejudiced environmental party Left is rotating into. What is the definition of the former representative, Kongshaug, of national fishing interests? That was one of the questions he didn't get time to answer instead. I could imagine that he was giving priority to answering that now.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-lower.ana.ud1831e357	We have recently addressed a perspective message that draws up the long-term lines of Norwegian fisheries policy, and I initially tried to target the national interests of Norwegian fisheries policy. These included: some social objectives for industry, sustainable resource management, increased profitability, safe and good jobs, good recruitment and maintenance of residence. It is Norwegian fisheries policy in a nutshell. We don't have to make such a detailed decision that we can't deal with situations that arise in an industry that has so many stakeholders and so many cases that can show up. We know how difficult it is both to renew the fleet and to be able to bring in new vessels that are well suited for and adapted to modern fishing. We have many examples of that being difficult. It's going the right way, it's getting easier, but we don't have to introduce rules that make this even more rigid than it has been. It is not Norwegian fishing industry served. If the representative wants a concrete response from the pulpit here in a three-minute speech on what is contrary to national interests, then I just have to say that it is not possible to give in such a short time. We are formulating ourselves that way so that the authorities can assess each case on the basis of the overall objective that I referred to initially now.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-lower.ana.ud1831e366	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-lower.ana.ud1831e369	The Norwegian fishing industry has been one of the main pillars of the Norwegian economy and is also today, where production in most industries is characterised by high technology and rational operation. Norwegian fishing industry, both land-based and offshore, is an important reason why coastal regions in Norway have a very high share of total value creation in Norway. This has once again provided a basis for settlement and well-being along our coast. This can also happen in the future if we act forwards, both the Storting as a legislative body and the industry itself through its practitioners. It's wise if we add, among other things. the following for the purpose: ensuring a proper balance between the growth of fishing resources and the provision of opportunities for economic self-sufficiency in the industry to ensure employment both on land and at sea, making it attractive to new and young practitioners by arranging it so that social benefits and leisure time can become more attractive than in other professions; One of the main challenges in the fishing industry will be a constant fight against over-taxation of many fish species. Therefore, both authorities and industry operators must be united on the necessary regulations. The operator must take responsibility for adapting the fishing capacity to the resource base. In my view, the unit quota system is essential to support the aspects I have mentioned so far. It is important to arrive at the most sustainable allocation of fishing quotas between sea and coastal fleets, so that there are no undue fluctuations in the profitability of the industry. We need structural adjustment and long-termity. It is therefore important that a person maintains the allocation of allowances between the different groups over a certain period of time. Whereas the industry's profitability is fundamental and the unit quota system must have the necessary effect, by merging allowances, ensure that vessels with equivalent allowances are removed; At the same time, there is reason to stress that aggregation of allowances should not occur across groups. I support the system of a relapse of the unit allowances to the state according to the applicable rules. I have noticed that the Norwegian Fisheries Team is now supporting the continuation of the established quota arrangements for both the cod trawl fleet, the purse fleet and the Greenland shrimp fleet. The objections raised by some hearing bodies by claiming that the unit quota system has not functioned properly, namely to contribute to capacity-adjustment, appear not to be correct from the figures provided by the ministry. I also believe that there may be grounds to consider whether the unit quota separation should be at boat size of 28 metres, and I look forward to the assessment that the department has been asked to make of this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-lower.ana.ud1831e403	It's interesting to sit in the hall and listen to a fishing debate. It's interesting to be at the fisherman's team meeting in Stortinget, although not everyone is equally well inside the fishing industry of those who have spoken. I have a few comments. It's a widespread misunderstanding that I think it's worth looking at – this is because we're in the grip of fishing resources all over the world. There are two-three facts I'm going to make aware of. The Russian fishing fleet of 30,000 vessels, mostly factory ships, is at berth. They're not at sea because of lack of bunkers, simply. They can't afford to be at sea. More tonnage is scraped in the fishing fleet than ever. Fewer new boats are built in the world's fishing fleet than ever. These are also FAO figures, so the figures presented to the Committee are old forecasts. They haven't cared about the new numbers. These are the last numbers I think it should have been referred to. There is a correction that I think I must be allowed to come with. In addition, I agree with the conclusion on the introduction of unit quotas for the ring-fleet and shrimp trawl fleet and, in particular, the sea fishing fleet, which operates conventionally. After all, it's at the industry's own request, and it's a formalization of a system that's been voluntary for many years. And that's fine. That's how it should be when there's a democratic process. But I also have to ask questions about capacity reductions, as we're talking about. Is it capacity reductions when you combine quotas and build bigger and more efficient boats, which have double, maybe triple the capacity and efficiency of the two that are merged? It's not capacity reduction. But it's more profitable for those who do. Here we talk about profitability for the industry. I ask the question, "Wages and salaries for whom?" It is profitable for those who own allowances and are allowed to build larger and larger boats, and who suffer from elephant disease or gigantomania. Then there's talk of the coastal fleet being so unprofitable. Unprofitable for who? Those who fish on the coast and live by it, support their family, provide taxes to the countryside and to the municipality, maintain society, can't find it unprofitable? I cannot, with my best will, understand the Right Party and the Advance Party that are in favour of bringing life and death together quotas for the coastal fleet to make it more profitable. I don't understand! When they find it profitable to carry on their profession, it is profitable enough! But it's going to be profitable for someone who can invest by merging units to buy up the resources, and then go on the stock exchange. Then it's profitable. Of course, it is profitable for those who invest. But I'm more concerned that it's going to be profitable for those who run the profession. And if they find out that it's not profitable, they'll end up. It's always been like this on the coast. When the Committee says that the Government is also to investigate a unit quota scheme for the coastal fishing fleet, that's all right. But then they say, in order to implement it from the year 2000, i.e. from 1 January 2000. I have to say it sounds incredibly optimistic. It shows that the Committee is not aware of the kind of democratic processes we have in this country, including: with consultations, to get the industry involved. Why can't it be the Committee's opinion that there should be a system down on people they don't want? Is it better to make an investigation that the industry itself agrees with? And why not try a voluntary arrangement, in line with the one we've had for the ocean fishing fleet for many years, to get a soft adjustment, instead of asking for an investigation to carry it out in a hat-fuck? I have not made any suggestions, but I hope that what I have said is taken note of. The Minister for Fisheries knows exactly what I mean.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-lower.ana.ud1831e420	I should like to begin by expressing my great satisfaction at the fact that the Economic and Social Committee has endorsed the Government's proposal to continue and extend the system of unitary quotas in the Saltwater Fishing Act. The Committee has thus facilitated the continued provision of fishing fleets with capacity-reducing mechanisms which, at the same time, increase the profitability of individuals. This is an important element of the set of measures that can contribute to increased renewal and to a capacity-adjusted fishing fleet. I note that in the Committee there are several concrete proposals from different parties, which show that there are different views about this part of the fisheries policy. I appreciate to the extent that there is an commitment in the field of fisheries policy, sail if I do not agree with all the proposals that have been made. A minority of the Committee, consisting of the representatives of the Party of Advances, has proposed the creation of tradable quotas across ship groups. As expressed in my letter to the nutrition committee, unit allowances do not mean transferable allowances. I see it as a premise that the private’s availability over the unit allowance is limited in several directions, so that the scheme does not act as a centraliser or in other ways counter the distribution policy. I remind you that the fishing resources are the property of the state, and that therefore it is an obvious task to distribute the values and not place them with a few. The basic interest rate is best suited to a reality in which the privatisation of the common resources has been carried out and in which it is therefore necessary to involve the single fund in a share of the rent for distribution. I am therefore not surprised that the members of the Committee of the Right and the Progressive Party have proposed to investigate this. Today, the basic rate is allocated to the fishing industry and to the coastal population whose daily output is from fishing and fishing, which is natural in an industry with an important function in terms of employment and housing in the districts and which yields maximum variable yields over time. An important limitation in the scheme is the time-limiting of the unit allowance. The majority in the Committee have agreed to continue with the current time limit, and I agree with that. The time limit laid down in the temporary arrangement has been determined on the basis of an overall assessment and after consultation with the industry. According to the bill, the individual arrangements laid down will be an offer to the industry, alongside the ordinary regulations. It will therefore be up to each shipowner to determine whether there is a need to strengthen the operating base of a ship by drawing out another vessel and being allocated a unit quota. The system must be designed in such a way that it becomes a real offer, but must not, on the other hand, become so free that it runs counter to policy objectives. In the perspective notification, the Government stated that unit quota schemes constitute a dynamic instrument in relation to fleet renewal and overcapacity. It is clear that the development of technology must be part of the fishing fleet – like the rest of the business world – even if it increases capacity. The unit quota scheme provides space for the introduction of new technologies by reducing the number of units in the fish, and thus also the capacity. It is therefore natural for ship groups with unit quota schemes to gradually grant greater freedom in the design of ships, which will improve the working environment, safety and recruitment. It is proposed in the legislative proposal to provide the basis for the concessional jet and ring-fleet fleet, as well as for vessels over 28 metres fishing with conventional gear and with access restrictions. Extension to conventional vessels is due to increased fishing capacity in this fleet. The Committee asks for an investigation to make the unit quota system applicable also to vessels fishing with conventional gears of less than 28 metres in length and points out that the technology has substantially lifted the distinction between vessels above and below 28 metres and that those groups of vessels are far on the road fishing with the same type of gear. This problem is likely to be faced with various problems, regardless of the size of the vessel on which it is bounded. I take note that the committee has requested such an investigation and will have it carried out, while assessing a concession arrangement for conventional vessels over 28 metres. For the sake of order, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the unit quota arrangements for vessels below 28 metres will require a change in the law.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-lower.ana.ud1831e443	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-lower.ana.ud1831e446	The Minister for Fisheries stressed that the scheme should be capacity-reducing, and he used the word ‘capacity adjustment’ in the next sentence. It would have been good to know a little more about the extent to which the Minister for Fisheries, my national fishing capacity, needs to be reduced, and about us through our international cooperation, for example. in the FAO, also has an obligation in relation to how the pressure on fish resources is global. In a previous article, the information given by FAO is not correct. It was a meeting in Rome, as far as I understood, on 10 March, which was to be attended by fisheries ministers – at least by those who are members of the FAO. It might have been interesting if our Minister for Fisheries could tell us a little about the information the Committee has provided, which is, in fact, true when it comes to the issue of overcapacity. Is there an overcapacity at the fishing level globally, or is it not, and to what extent is there a problem here in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-lower.ana.ud1831e453	The best way to participate in international cooperation in order to reduce the over-taxation of marine resources is to work together to achieve total regulation of all fish stocks, including in international waters. Norway is trying to be a driver and to be active in the context of the international conventions in this area. Of course, the fact that overcapacity can be calculated in the fishing fleet is very difficult to answer, and the representative of Bastesen said that a significant part of the international fishing fleet is not operating is a difficult thing to do in response to what was mentioned in the reply. On the Norwegian side, however, it is important that we housekeepers with our capacity and adapt it to the quotas included in international cooperation. I see as the most important thing that, in total, we have fisheries agreements for the fish stocks we have in our seas, that, for our part, according to profitability considerations, we adapt the capacity of the fleet, and also that the fisheries agreements we have with cooperating countries ensure that we have control mechanisms to ensure that all contracting parties relate to the fisheries agreements that have been concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-lower.ana.ud1831e460	In the setting, there is a comprehensive committee which points out that a continuation of the unitary quota system must actually be capacity-adapted and that the vessel must not be translated in a way that is contrary to national fisheries interests. If such a situation occurs that one of the vessels that has been left in connection with this arrangement appears, for example. in the Smuthavet, would that be contrary to Norwegian fishing interests? It might be interesting to get this set up, because we've just negotiated out of a situation, at least we're on our way to doing it, with a nation that had to find a place for its surplus vessel after they put in the negotiable quotas, namely Iceland. It was made clear to us in connection with the fact that the Committee was visiting Iceland, that the excess available capacity after the unit quota system was introduced there had to find a place to fish so that one could have income to remunerate the boats. If such a situation occurs for those ships that become vacant from our fisheries, it will pose challenges for us that we may not get out of in the long term, at least not if we are to take the national interests seriously. I could imagine that the Minister for Fisheries said a little about what he sees as national fishing interests if any of these boats show up in our nearby waters, in the unregulated seas.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-lower.ana.ud1831e470	As has been shown earlier in the debate, it is most ideal in the implementation of the unit quota system for vessels to have been declared. But, as the representative of Kongshaug in particular explained, it is important to make the unit quota system work. There is considerable capital in taking out a ship. I think that if rules were to be laid down that vessels should be condoned, the unit quota system would not work. It's clear. We must not exaggerate the importance of the system. Since 1996, a dozen vessels have, after all, been taken out of the Norwegian fishing industry. We hope that the scheme, as it works, will increase its scope. That's what we think is important. I think we'll have to see if the legislation is adapted so that we can optimise the system. When it comes to Norwegian fishing interests, I would like to say that a vessel can, of course, be taken into Norwegian fishing if an equivalent, perhaps older, vessel is taken out and conditioned. There will be no problem if there is a vessel that is considered usable to operate on. When selling a vessel abroad, it is important that it is to a country with which we have a fisheries agreement, so that we know that the vessel is being put into a fishery within the quotas that it has and within the quota agreements that Norway has with that country. Then there will be control of the activity carried out by the vessel. If you were to sell a ship abroad, e.g. to a country with which we do not have quota agreements, one can, of course, risk entering international waters in contravention of Norwegian fishing interests.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-lower.ana.ud1831e479	No more words have been asked for a line. Also, no more people have signed up on the list of speakers in case no. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 423]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-lower.ana.ud1831e495	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that no lines be given after the individual posts. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-lower.ana.ud1831e498	This bill aims to provide the same company legal framework as other cooperatives. No one should doubt that the Norwegian dairy sector has changed significantly since the laws were passed in 1936. From being about. 600 dairy companies, we have today 11 before the Tine system in addition to three others. It is difficult to see a justification for the need today for a private law that specifically regulates dairies. A lifting of the rest of this law will help to create a simpler lawmaking and legislation with other cooperatives, depending on the centre of the law. In practice, this means that it is the statutes of the individual company that set out the rules for a possible merger with other companies. I can't see that in the hearing that we've been hearing, there's a point of view that goes against the principle that this has been done for. For this reason, I am surprised to note that the majority of the Business Committee is not ready to make these changes at this point in time. Otherwise, I refer to the proposition and present the proposal in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-lower.ana.ud1831e511	Modulf Auggan has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-lower.ana.ud1831e514	The structure of the agricultural processing industry is a subject that is constantly under discussion. Naturally, merger and rationalisation plans give rise to a high level of local attention and involvement. Often this is about maintaining important local jobs. At the same time, it is about providing the processing industry with such an efficient structure that the owners, i.e. the individual primary producer, can get the best possible payment for the raw material they supply. In the case of the Workers' Party, it is natural that the primary focus of primary production is on ensuring the rural policy function of agriculture. It is therefore also the case that consideration of the economy of primary production must lead to political restraint as compared to interfering with the needs of cooperative organisations for structural changes. Of course, the assumption is that it can reasonably be demonstrated that structural changes actually lead to better payment for primary producers. The Odelstinget case today has nothing to do with these structural issues, but indirectly the Odelstinget decision today may have some meaning. I am of course aware that former workers' party governments have signalled that the dairy company law can be repealed after we have now put in place the new market organisation for milk. Nevertheless, when the Workers' Party is in favour of maintaining the law today, it finds its reasons in two main respects: Firstly, we have chosen to place great emphasis on the hearing opinion of Tine Norske Meierieri. Tine points out that the repeal of the dairy company law could make it more difficult to implement the necessary structural changes. A dairy company has, as it is known, a different decision-making system than a limited liability company. The owners of a dairy company are all equivalent. This means that regardless of how much milk a producer delivers, he/she will have one vote at the annual meeting. This is not, therefore, the case of a limited liability company in which the shareholders vote in the general meeting according to their holding. Therefore, it is also the case that if the dairy company law is repealed, it opens up to a system in which relatively small owners of a dairy company can block mergers. So it can happen even if the big suppliers of milk want a structural change. This is a ratio not least Tine has been busy. Secondly, in the Labour Party, we believe that we can allow ourselves to maintain the dairy company law pending the assessments that are now being carried out in relation to the entire cooperative law. As you know, a separate sample, led by the Supreme Court judge Magnus Aarbakke, is working on this. Through this work, the dairy company law can be seen in a context. This gives us an opportunity to highlight the opinion of Tine Norske Meierier, while soon we will have the opportunity to see the law in a larger whole. On this basis, I would like to support the setting of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-lower.ana.ud1831e533	What the previous speaker, Hanssen's representative, said, is largely consistent with the Right's approach to this matter. I think it may be strange when the rapporteur says that he cannot see that there have been significant objections. Yes, there have been major objections! They have come from the farmers' own bodies to deal with this milk, which has a market share of between 99 and 100 p.p., namely, Tine Norske Meierierier, who opposes this proposal because it would make the structural adjustments that farmers' own dairies find opportunistic. On the right, we have placed a decisive emphasis on what the farmers' own processing company has thought about this. In addition to being mentioned in the proposal under point 3, the opinion of the Hearing Officers, the Committee has been sent this entire opinion in its own despatch by the Ministry. For the Right, we cannot see that we are going to help prevent farmers and milk suppliers from doing what is necessary through their own company to enable the active farmers to get a better price for their own milk. What happens if we cancel this is, as the representative Hanssen said, the fact that it opens up that relatively small groups of owners should block for the vast majority of milk suppliers. We see no reason to do that, and for that reason, we have come to vote against the Government's proposal to repeal this law, even though it is an old law – it is from 1936 – and, as the rapporteur pointed out, there was a significantly greater number of daring at the time than it is now. But I keep in mind that it is still the case that, within the framework of agricultural cooperation, we have not come up with a structure that we believe is optimal in order to serve the interests of the same farmers.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-lower.ana.ud1831e544	: Dairy production in this country is the least competitive part of the food industry in relation to similar processing production in the EU area. The milk sector is the most pervasive and most expensive in agriculture, which involves billions in population censuses every year. There has been little competition here, and if the decision in the Sales Council last Friday remains, it means the hook on the door for new private dairy start-ups of some size. In that case, it will cement today's situation with Tine hegemony, lead to strong restrictions of competition and will be unique in Europe. Tine Norske Meierierier has long held a dominant market share in a number of product areas, such as human consumption milk, butter and products such as cream and cream. As we move towards a more open Europe, competition will gradually come into this area as well. What arrangements we ultimately end up with depends partly on what happens to the EU's agricultural reform and the WTO negotiations. But it has to be clear: we have to get a development that is adapted to the challenges of the next millennium. A system with too high production capacity, too many employees, which is inefficient and too much producer-driven, as it is today, has no future either in the domestic or international market. It'll just be a matter of time! The matter we are dealing with today affects some of this. Although the solution, including the Progress Party, is in favour of rejecting the proposal for a law repealing certain provisions relating to dairies, this is far from the main solutions of the Progress Party for the dairy sector. Nevertheless, there is a step in the right direction within the existing and through regulated system. Had the Government's proposals been adopted, it would be more difficult to carry out the necessary rationalisation and restructuring in the dairy sector. This could be done, for example, by: there is a situation of significant overcapacity on the bottling of human milk and an optimisation of the operation is imperative. It would be unreasonable, as we see it, if a minority, who may not give priority to thinking about the economy and structure and the necessary means to achieve this, would be able to block a majority who will develop the business to gain greater economic and strategic strength. Of course, we understand that it can be bad and difficult to see that the local dairy is being closed down. It may be difficult to accept people who are affected, both employees, farmers and local politicians, but this cannot be given decisive importance. Here, we need to give priority to the potential to develop a more rational and efficient milk sector, which costs a lot today, and which needs to achieve a completely different robustness in order to have survival in the future in a stronger national and international competition. We will then be most well served to continue today's dairy law until the newly appointed cooperative committee has assessed the need for a separate cooperative law against the incorporation of its own provisions for cooperatives in share law.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-lower.ana.ud1831e555	The scheduled time for the afternoon meeting is now at hand. However, the President will propose that the meeting continue until the current map is completed. - It'll be taken as a receipt.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-lower.ana.ud1831e558	Work on the repeal of the current dairy company law began during the previous government. During the examination of the agricultural situation in 1996 and 1997, a clear majority of the population had no comments on this process. In fact, this position also seemed reasonable to me as the Council of State. When, through the changes adopted to the milk market organisation, the size has enabled conditions to create conditions similar to those in the dairy sector to those in other agricultural cooperative sectors, it should also be natural that the legal basis was the same. This means, in my view, that the same rules of competition and company law should apply to those activities. The background to the Ministry of Agriculture's proposal to repeal the dairy company law was among other things. to contribute to the creation of simpler and more harmonised company legislation. Such a principle I actually thought that most of the parties here in this hall could give their support. It therefore appears unclear why a majority of the Business Committee is in favour of applying other corporate democratic rules to members of a cooperative that produce milk than to members or unit-holders of companies that produce other types of food, or for other goods and services. It may be claimed that the general rule after any change in the law would be that 2/3 majority of unit-holders were required in order to achieve a merger of a dairy company – I say: the general rule. The point is, of course, that after the amendment of the law, it will be up to the individual company, within the framework of the non-statutory right to cooperate, to decide on the majority to be required for merger. Thus, each company will initially be free to set other majority requirements if the unit-holders consider this desirable. However, I take note that the majority will await the Aarbakke Committee's investigation into the need for a separate cooperative law before reconsidering the repeal of the remaining part of today's dairy company law. The reason for this, however, has puzzled me when I know the history of this process, which has been going on for several years. When I hear the reason for the position, I have to finally add that the very idea behind cooperative is to give equal influence, with one voice. When the reason that one doesn't want a change here is that one will give more influence to the big ones, it's actually a break with the whole process of thinking behind cooperatives as such. I am also surprised when one says that it is an objective in itself to contribute to more merger, but in the next round argues to create more competition. Mergers usually result in less competition. So after listening to the debate, I wonder even more about the majority's conclusions. However, the Council of State knows that the majority decides, and takes note of it, but I expect that this matter will certainly be on the agenda again in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-lower.ana.ud1831e569	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 424]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-lower.ana.ud1831e577	The odelsting goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-lower.ana.ud1831e583	Seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1 – 5, by Terje Knudsen on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No. 6 and 7, from Ivar Kristiansen on behalf of Right Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to carry out an investigation into a resource charge and to request further investigation of the appropriate instruments for such a charge, and then send the assessment to Stortinget.’ [[ground rate]] Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The size requests the Government to make adjustments in order to extend the unit quota system to include vessels down to 15 metres’.» Proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The size is requested by the Government to facilitate the free movement of allowances and to allow this across groups of vessels’.» Proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to change the boundary between the sea and coastal fishing fleet to 21,3 metres.’ Proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The Government requests the Government to extend the time limit for the unit allowance scheme to 15 years. This shall also apply to shrimp trawlers.’» Proposal No. 6, from the Right, sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to liquidate the time limit for the allocation of unit allowances. The winding-up should be carried out in parallel with the introduction of a flat-rate charge in the fishing industry. The form of such a fee, inter alia: the basis of calculation, who shall be included and its use shall be further investigated.’;» Proposal No. 7, from the Right, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up proposals to establish a unit quota scheme for all fisheries where administrative reasons require limitations on fishing. Separate unit quota schemes are established for vessels above and below 21,3 metres.’;» These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-lower.ana.ud1831e669	The Socialist Left Party has announced in the debate that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-lower.ana.ud1831e678	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-lower.ana.ud1831e685	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-lower.ana.ud1831e695	The recommendation of the Committee for B shall be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-lower.ana.ud1831e701	During the debate, Mr Auggan, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left, presented the following proposals:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25-lower.ana.ud1831e742	There is no record available.
