ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e39	Honourable co-representatives! Former Pedestrian Trygve Friis Bull is dead, 93 years old. With the passing of Trygve Bull, political Norway has lost one of our century's distinctive personalities. Trygve Bull was born in Kristiania. Even before he turned 20 years old, he entered the environment around the «Mot Day», an environment that the historian Trygve Bull later described in book form. He worked as a historian for 12 years in Bergen, interrupted by a two-year imprisonment in Norway and in Germany during the last part of World War II. He was a representative of the Storting from the Labour Party in Oslo for three periods from 1958 to 1969, and met firmly for the first six years of that time. Trygve Bull joined the newly formed Socialist Electoral Union after the 1972 EC dispute. Nevertheless, it is not primarily as a party politician, but as a social debater Trygve Bull will be remembered. His knowledge, combined with his analytical abilities, made him a held and used debater and commentator. Not least, Trygve Bull was a man who was created for TV debates, as we know them from the 1960s and 1970s – debates where there was more room for reasoning and analysis than for light points and superficial issues. Trygve Bull was born on referendum day in 1905. Just the national, but not the sévinist, was the lead in Trygve Bull's work as a social debater. This balance sheet marked his opposition to Norwegian EC and EU membership both in 1972 and 1994. This was also the basis for Trygve Bull's involvement in language issues. Bull, who even spoke a language characterized by a growth in Kristiania's citizenship, had a living commitment to a language sprang out of the Norwegian dialects. One term that goes back to many of the descriptions of Trygve Bull is the word ‘breast’. He could, as perhaps no other politician in his time, give recognition to those with whom he disagreed politically. He was in the best sense and meaning of the word a debater who also admitted from the pulpit of Stortingen that there were good arguments also among those who voted differently than he himself. Trypy Bull liked to call himself "Lektor Bull". Agnar Mykle describes on his side a «lector Table» in his book «The Song of the Red Rubin» – a figure Trygve Bull was a model for, and from which he came well. Until quite recently, Trygve Bull was a fixed guest at Stortinget, not least at the library, where he was looking at the reading room with today's newspapers, and with his hat lying on the desk next to him. Bull would also like to take the trip away in the big city building to discuss social issues with representatives of different parties, or to attend a big debate. The last one was often an ominous sign. It is said that after 1920 Trygve Bull was present every single time it seemed to go against the government crisis. On the other hand, there was never a danger of a government crisis unless Trygve Bull had come to the Stortinget. The politician, the debater and commentator Trygve Bull will be remembered as one of this century's leading intellectuals in Norway. We remember Trygve Bull in deep respect and with joy. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e62	From 24 March to 26 March to take part in a conference in Bruges, Belgium, application was submitted by the representative Arne Lyngstad. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Astri Wessel, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e82	The President will propose the election of three presidents for the Stortinges meetings this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e87	I allow myself to propose Ursula Evje, Per Ove Width and Kenneth Svendsen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e92	Ursula Evje, Kenneth Svendsen and Per Ove Width are proposed as chairmen. – Other proposals are not available, and Ursula Evje, Kenneth Svendsen and Per Ove Wideth are unanimously elected as presidents of the current week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e104	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 45 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party 60 minutes, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party 25 minutes each, Right 20 minutes, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and Left 10 minutes each and the Twist Party elected 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches by the main speakers for each party group and after contributions by members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - This is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e115	On behalf of the Defence Committee, I present Innst. S. No 129 for 1998-99 on the regional shoot-out and drill-out fields of the Defence Departments in the East. The draft decision has been submitted to the Committee on Energy and the Environment, and its opinion is printed in the vote. The setting is based on St.meld. No 11 for 1998-99. I have to say that the message has some unusual form, if possible almost a cross between a message and a proposition, and then it is certainly not easy to know what the Government really wants. As a result, it is also in many ways added to Stortinget to take responsibility for bringing the case up. It has therefore been necessary for the work of the Committee to clarify a number of issues through extensive consultations and through questions to the Ministry. This is a matter which has naturally taken on many, as well as the direct stakeholders as well as organisations with varying links to the matter. That is why, as I said, it has been put up for extensive consultations with those interest groups who have wanted to meet the Committee. An overview of the hearings – a total of 32 – can be found in the appendix setting. Furthermore, the Committee has carried out site inspections both on the ground and from the air and has met with the municipalities, county councils and the county council of Hedmark. In addition, the Committee has received a significant amount of written enquiries with views on the matter. Very many of the requests have naturally expressed opposition to the establishment, but many have also expressed support for the establishment of the field. As I said, the hearings have been very extensive. Let me first establish the basis for the need to establish a region field in the East. The proposal for establishment is a direct consequence of the Storting decision on the implementation of a new defence structure made applicable through the consideration of Innst. S. No 150 for 1992-93. In this context, it may be useful to quote from page 58 of the referenced setting. That's what it says. ‘The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the member of the Socialist Left Party, notes that there will be a great deal of emphasis on expanding shooting and exercise fields with the necessary infrastructure, in order to ensure that more garrison-oriented training creates opportunities for a greater degree of realism and efficiency’. So it was only SV that was outside this committee comment. In addition, in a majority opinion of the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party, it is stated that they: ‘have noted and take note of how the training frequency and the scope and content of the exercises are planned. In this context, it is of central importance that staff be given adequate training both in the operation of their materials and in the ability to interact with other departments and units. High training standards are an essential part of the quality concept’. The Progress Party and the Right have, in their comments in the same document, an even more robust view of the need to facilitate the conditions for practice and training. These include: on this basis, the Ministry of Defence instructed the Defence Building Service to investigate the exercise of the possibility of the East, a project which has been the subject of an impact assessment and consultation under the provisions of the Planning and Building Act. By letter of 15 January 1998, the Ministry of Defence, in consultation with the Ministry of the Environment, approved the submitted investigation and consultation material. St.meld. No 22 for 1997-98 follows this up and gives an account of the operational concepts that need to be used as a basis for modern country defence. This means that modern material requires practice conditions other than today's and yesterday's. There is a need for cooperation between weapon species and between different groups of participants in something to form as an integral instrument to do the military tasks we want to do for national efforts, but of course also in relation to cooperation and interaction with our allies and in connection with international operations. So it's no longer a flash shot, as it was in the old concepts, but it's being able to practice cooperatives that are the basics. And so this is like, for example, is responsible for the setting of the majority committee. With background in quoted paragraphs from Input. S. No 150 and St.meld. No 11 It is no wonder that the majority of the Committee finds it remarkable that the Christian People's Party and the Central Party almost make a taboo move away from their previous positions on the need for practice areas. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Right, therefore consider it necessary, through its comments, to point out that the Communication contains a coherent argument for the need for the establishment of a region of Eastern Europe in order to respond to the needs of its defence, both on the basis of the country defence structure in South Norway and the need to be able to participate with appropriate forces in international operations. The most eye-catching and perhaps critical is the disclaimer shown by a brief rejection of the investigated proposals, while proposing an expanded 0 option. Such options are clearly rejected by the Defence, as indicated in the text of the notification. The majority's proposal is to set up a field which, at the same time, makes it possible to phase out another and small-time field, namely the Hierkin, just one of the existing fields that the government parties will have investigated. So what the government is proposing is to consider an extension of nature protection in relation to Dovrejell, while at the same time giving their initiative the acceptance of increased stress on the field at the Terningmoen and thus on the population of Elverum, which is currently under stress far above what is expected to be the case in the Åvre case of noise. It seems equally obvious that the position will make it almost impossible for the same batches to go in for III in the setting. Nor do I agree very well with previous defence priorities, as I have explained from previous large-scale documents. It is obviously of greater importance for the government parties to satisfy their own internal needs than to take responsibility for the training of our soldiers. I'm assuming that the minority will justify their positions. Of course, it is not an easy decision for the majority to make a choice that would be detrimental to the population of the area where a region is chosen. However, it has been necessary for someone to take overall responsibility for achieving the goals set by the Storting itself, even though this is far from likely to be popular. It was just supposed to be missing! It is understandable that the local population has tried to counteract the establishment of a regional area. It's legitimate. When a majority of the Labour Party and the Advance Party have made a choice, it is based on a number of balances through the advantages and disadvantages of the three alternatives. The right will justify its choice, but on the basis of the Right comments in the setting, consideration of its own party does not seem to be irrelevant. I am also pleased, as the rapporteur, that the Right has notified subsidiary support for the position of the majority, cf. decision item II. As I said, the Progress Party and I ourselves have a great deal of understanding that the local people and landowners have reacted. On the other hand, I have less understanding of a number of more or less professional nationwide organisations that suddenly seem to have discovered Hedmark, which also marked parts of the hearings. Some of the arguments against the establishment of the regional field have been characterised by exaggerations and attempts to describe horror scenarios. To this end, significant media assistance has been provided, not least from the NRK. For periods, programmes such as: «Out into nature», to which many of us listen on Sunday morning, was marked by a one-sidedness that should not be acceptable in a listener-funded institution. Obviously, manufacturing balances have not been the goal. The case has been made from opponents as if 250 km2 were to be laid flat and shot in stumps and pieces. We don't know that. There will be the impact field itself inside the area that will receive the maximum load. Otherwise, the main interventions will be run-runners, gunfield clearing and irradiation platforms. In this context, the majority refers to comments that point to significant damage to forest and land being the main problem within the concentrated target area, which will be 20 to 30 km2 in the central areas of the red zone, and that 70 pst. the area of this zone outside the concentrated target area is assumed to remain untouched. It's obviously something else. Another factor that is important is the use time and frequency. A manufacturing form has sometimes been used as if the field were to be used 365 days a year and 24 hours a day. Of course that's not right. The tables that show the planned use tell something quite different. In this context, I refer to the tables in the investigation and to the comments made by the majority of the committee, which are based on a further protection for the summer months and the harvest than the notification provides, i.e. a more restrictive use. By way of its observations, the majority of the Committee has indicated that, when the State acquires properties and rights for its use, Paragraph 105 of the Constitution shall be used as a basis for compensation. The majority believe that a make change is the most appropriate form of compensation when public intervention takes place. In this context, the majority emphasises that State Forest and the Information Society's Fund Forest must be required to contribute to make-shift, because the establishment of Rena clay has reduced flexibility within private properties. Furthermore, the majority assume that funds are made available to implement landslides in the affected region, thus strengthening the existing property structure. Furthermore, the majority asks for the assessment of the possibility of a triangle change, where landowners resident in other municipalities are given the opportunity to enter land in their municipality of origin in order to free up new land. In addition, the majority assumes that there are no problems in relation to the provisions of agricultural legislation, such as: in the case of compulsory residence and compulsory employment. Finally, the majority point out that new property must, as far as possible, give equivalent post-acquisition freedom, which the owner had on the original property. As regards nature protection and animal considerations, including game of prey, birds and plants, the majority have taken note of the objections raised by nature conservation to the establishment of a regional area in such a context. For its own part, the Committee through the Ministry has collected information on the experience gained from shooting and training fields both in its own country and abroad in terms of flora and fauna. In this, of course, there is also a balance between the different options, but we have then obtained information where it is known that experiences from shooting and practice fields elsewhere in the country and abroad show that wildlife seems to adapt to the activities of the Defense, also in such a way that areas with restrictions can act as a haven for wildlife and birds, thus providing greater stocking density. In this context, the majority of the vote also refers to the existence of an established bear tribe within the Älvdalen shooting range in Sweden. The majority also point out in their comments that the flora and fauna of existing shooting and exercise fields abroad appear to develop positively in parallel with military activity. Thus, training fields appear to provide protection for several species. In this context, it is indicated that a 100 km2 exercise field in Sweden, Villingsberg, is described as follows: ‘The field contains many rare bird species. Animal life is generally richer and richer within the field than outside.» I refer here to the statement that was included as an attachment in the setting, about experience from other fields abroad. Another area in which questions have been raised is the importance of the choice of the grey mountain for aviation. Here the Committee has taken views from the Department, which, after meeting with the Swedish Aviation Agency, has said that it is of course recognised that it would be easier not to have a field of fire in Gråfjellet. For air traffic, it would be easier to have the exercise field in the Granberg area, but it is not the case that the answer we have received excludes the possibility of finding practical solutions for airspace co-operation. It's just about. 10 pst. of the current time that there will be a conflict between normal air traffic and defence activities, and I would like to point out that we today have the use of airspace in all other areas where there is normal air traffic and defence in addition to exercises and shooting, and it is also practiced with aircraft. Here, through contact, it has been possible to establish an understanding of conversion in times of controversy, and it has been very good. I therefore see no reason why it should be different in this context that we are now talking about. Finally, in the evening post yesterday, an article shows that there has been harassment of children by officers at Rena clay. In my opinion, if this were more than one case, it would be very unfortunate and fundamentally wrong to have such an attitude. If this is a general view, some people should take a strong stand. With this I recommend the setting of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e192	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e195	I think it was a good review that the rapporteur had of the matter. It is true that the representative Røsjorde is the representative in the Chamber who has been a member of the Defence Committee the longest. He has been following the defence and security policy for many years and knows previous decisions and messages, and on that basis I will ask a few questions: Is this field of fire an investment that the Defense needs? Will it go at the expense of other investments in the Defence, such as: frigates and planes? And does the representative, Mr Røss grounde, believe that later on this would prove to be a forward-looking decision if the committee's decision were adopted?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e204	Of course, with regard to investments linked to the Eastern Region, they are significant. The measures taken by the Committee show that there is an attitude to compensation, which means that when the State takes action on behalf of another person, it will be replaced in a full and complete manner. This makes it possible to increase the framework somewhat more in the case of remedial measures than is initially the basis of the document. This means that in the case of investment in the field, balances must be made in relation to what is otherwise invested. It is my basic position that this is an investment that must be parallel to the acquisition of equipment, equipment that we have already acquired today, and equipment that is necessary to bring together in a cooperative. We've already made investments in materials that are going to go into this. In the case of vehicle rocket repair, and in the case of unit formations. That means, as I see it, that future investment must also be balanced against the investments we are going to make in the construction sector. In my opinion, a clear and secure prioritisation of the material to be acquired is necessary, in opposition to the training possibilities that must be used to make this material a value in itself. It would be pointless to acquire material if one did not at the same time ensure that this material could be properly practised, and it is the balance of that which will form the basis for future priorities, priorities that will have to go not only within the national defence but equally between the defence sectors. In my opinion, it would be wrong not to go into the field with investments when one has started up and imagined a development such as the Stortinget has underpinned our future defence.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e213	With regard to the main issue today, the establishment of a regional shooting and training field in Hedmark, I agree with the rapporteur. On the other hand, when it comes to localization, I basically disagree. When the rapporteur says that as far as he understands, it is the concern of his own state that justifies the Right's position, I must be allowed to tell you that it is actually in Hedmark County this field of shooting should lie. It is in Hedmark that the burden comes for those who are exposed to the field of fire, and therefore I would like to know who the choice's agony as the rapporteur expressed when it was such a major intervention would apply if it did not apply to those who live in Hedmark. Or is it also the case in this case that it is much easier to tolerate pain on behalf of others than on their own behalf? But don't do that. The most important thing is that the setting also refers to the case rapporteur from the message and states in clear text that the make change potential has been used up when setting up Rena clay at Rødsmoen, while it is said that the Granberget option would significantly improve the possibilities for making changes. And then you say, "Oh, my God. ‘In addition, the majority assumes that there are no problems in relation to the provisions of agricultural legislation, for example: in the case of compulsory residence and compulsory employment.’;» If you get these two things to go together, it's good, but it's relatively eye-catching. I would like to ask the case rapporteur: Has he been involved in this rather dramatic change in Norwegian concession law that must be a premise to be able to make changes in an area where it is said in the setting itself that there is no more make change area at the disposal? So one has to go beyond that area and into areas where concession law is otherwise very strict and reprehensible. Does the Workers' Party agree with these baffling remarks?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e229	I'm not going to go into a longer argument with the Right Representative about the balance between the choices you're facing. Apparently I put it up in my post, which then made the representative Hernæs take a line. I know that there are both disadvantages and advantages, no matter what one chooses from the two options that have now been the most advanced. For the majority, there has been a total wave that has led to the acceptance of what has been the Chief of Defence's recommendation, namely the Grey Mountain. This has been the basis for the majority's elections. I'm recording that the Right has given priority to something different than the Chief of Defense has done. In this respect, the majority – the Labour Party and the Advance Party – argue that compensation must be provided under the Basic Law § 105. We have given some leads in the majority remarks to reinforce the importance that when the state intervenes in private property, the state should also contribute to proper and orderly settlement. Therefore, it has also been necessary to include relatively wide-ranging formulations to indicate directions of solutions. Nor will it be unknown that part of this has been wanted by the owner-in-law, without me going into details about it. Therefore, at least in my opinion, it is not possible to attack the fact that you are going as far as possible to give landowners the opportunity to get adequate compensation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e238	It's outrageous that an alliance of the Progress Party and the Workers' Party now seems to force through one of the biggest natural interventions in Norway's history, against massive protests. Today, associations are easily associated with other major missteps. It's enough to mention Alta expansion. We know that there are planned target areas in fantastic, pristine nature, and this will deprive future generations of the opportunity to experience this pristine nature. The representative Røsjorde stressed the detailed procedure. However, neither the Defence Committee nor the Energy and Environment Committee have seen the grey mountain before this decision is due to be taken today. The Committee on Energy and the Environment decided not to go on an inspection, and when the Defence Committee visited the Grey Mountain, it was so thick of fog that the defence officer had to use maps and compasses when moving outside the road. I would like to ask the representative Røsjorde whether he thinks this was a satisfactory inspection. I also want to ask Red Earth whether he thinks it is satisfactory that there has not been any investigation of the meteorological conditions in the area at all. What emphasis has Røsjorde placed on the NVE’s recommendation not to establish shooting areas and the SFT’s call for action? We know that discharges into water and land by run-off from heavy metals are a very serious danger in establishing this region field. Has the massive resistance at local level, from the Norwegian Tourist Association, environmental organisations and all the local associations, made any impression on Røsjorde? We also have the public environment and institutions. Has any emphasis been placed on this strong resistance in the assessment of the final conclusions?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e247	I note that the representative Rise completely disregards what was the basis when the government parties sat here in the hall in opposition. The basis, as I also said in my post, was then laid for the selection of the Eastern region. Then the government parties were with and underlined the need for a regional field, precisely for education, training and training. But then they came to the government, and then they fell away from what they stood with both the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Right when the foundation was laid. So now a message has been submitted, which I said was a strange «crossing» and which says you have to investigate further. If you meant it, you could start the investigation on your own and do something about it. Instead, you try to push others in front of you – in my opinion, a total discharge! That's exactly what the government has added up in this context. So that responsibility has had to go on and on – not without problems for any of the participating parties. So for the Committee's inspection. I would like to admit that there was fog in the Gråfjell area when the committee was on an inspection. We sailed all three areas by helicopter. Upon arrival on the ground in the grey mountain, it was not a very good view, but I can assure the representative Rise that both committee leaders and individual representatives from the committee have been on foot in a lot of better weather, so there is nothing surprising and unknown about what it looks like up there. Of course, we all understand that making such an intervention affects many, and that is not desirable. But it is necessary, as I said, that someone takes responsibility. We record that the representative Rise does not. We reset and give the possibility that the brain can be decommissioned. It should also be considered as a positive piece of it all.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e259	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e262	This is a comprehensive and difficult matter. When the Workers' Group had taken its decisive decision to expand the Eastern Region, I was asked – and I think many others were asked – whether I was cheering on the result, or whether I saw it as a great victory. The answer was then that now: No. Hardly anyone is happy to decide on a significant intervention of the kind that this is about. And hardly anyone is in favour of such decisions if one is not sure that it is necessary to meet overall national targets. One cannot expect all to feel the same about these objectives independently of their geographical and ideal location and their surrounding environment. But the Storting has an overall responsibility and an obligation to weigh different interests against each other. We do not have a defence for the sake of the generals or for the sake of the performance of the defence committee, of which some have been concerned. Some impressions in an otherwise good public debate make it necessary to make this very point. We need the defense for the sake of the country and everyone who lives here. Our animal-acquired historical experience and our ability to participate in international military operations do not suggest that we can place decisive emphasis on the sum of local resistance to the region field, although this resistance is understandable enough. It is true that we are living in a new era after the fall of the Wall, where other sides than the pure military have become a more important part of our overall security policy. It is also this development that has made it possible to achieve a halve of our quantitative land defence in just a few years. But for many years now, it has been an integral part of this conversion that investment in advanced materials should increase the effective fighting capacity of military departments, so that it was not halved. The political goal – and this has been dealt with many times – has been a smaller but more effective defence. Neither is it a prestigious question for a few. Not least, we owe it to give Norwegian youth and our command optimal opportunities to cope with and carry out their potential missions with the best possible equipment, with which they must certainly have realistic opportunities to practice. It is no longer, as many still think, about standing one place and shooting at the blink elsewhere. The defence concept of our allies and our allies places a decisive emphasis on smaller, mobile and flexible units and on the interaction between the weapons species, such as artillery, cavalry and infantry. This interaction must be practiced in a suitable loin and large enough to carry out realistic exercises. Already in 1980, the Stortinget gave its principal support to the establishment of three regional shooting and training fields adapted to the needs of each part of the country. The winding-up of the many divisions in Tree Layers has made the Fosen field obsolete, while the Mauken-Blacht field has been adopted, soon finished, and has to meet the needs of North Norway. That establishment also encountered strong protests, both from the reindeer industry and from the local team, and it was clarified both from the Stortinget side and from the other side that the establishment should not increase the exercise volume, but concentrate the exercises in the north better. If all training and shooting needs in South Norway could be covered by Mauken-Blötind, this would be in direct conflict with Storting's own assumptions. The capacity in the field is adapted to the needs of the region, and even if the capacity had been greater than that, according to the Department, it would cost 65-75 million. kr of the year to transport personnel northwards. In addition, the effective exercise time of the departments will have to be increased by 30 pst. It can be compared with sending soldiers and commanders from Rena clay, Haslemoen and Terningmoen to Northern Italy to practice. In sum, after a few years, it would be as expensive as the cost of a new region. In Hedmark we find the main waves for the cavalry, artillery and infantry, after all well equipped with rocket equipment, tanks, armoured carriages, trackcars, snowmobiles, off-road motorcycles, etc., all of which are part of our modernized land defence. This is precisely why Hedmark County has come more completely through the great cuts in Defense that almost all the other counties, except for Troms, have been through, and that have made so much bride in Stortinget every time there was to be a military job in the districts. Had it been clear from the outset that one person was only busy at the workplace and was not prepared to meet the training needs, with the disadvantages of doing so, perhaps there could have been a different course in localisation debates here in Stortinget. St.meld. No 11 contains a good and coherent effective review of the regional field issue. This context extends over ten chapters in which it is explained in detail about the background, needs and arrangements, before the Government then in Chapter 11 takes the lead in some button sentences where it is said that an overall assessment suggests a different approach than what has been produced. As a result, the notification represents a constitutional miscarriage and a piece of eye-catching political acrobatics. Apart from those button sentences, the notification is in fact a proposition calling for a decision to be taken by the applicant's rapporteur. And if the Storting will, the Government even has a position, the Grave Mountain, which they are, in principle, opposed to. I find this way of dealing with national defence issues critically, especially when one knows that the Government's proposal, the investigation of the so-called 0 option, with the extended use of the Brain and other fields, is rejected by the Defense as inadequate. A new investigation also takes three years and costs tens of millions of dollars. Such an investigation of the Hierkin was not carried out by the previous government, among others. because it would create extended and increased uncertainty about the new Land Plan for National Parks, which will now provide us with a unique opportunity for a coherent protection area linked to Dovreberg, Sunndalsberg and Rondane National Parks, which will be unique in European context. Government parties will question whether or not to believe today's arrangement. There is no attempt on the part of the Government to support the fact that the extended 0 option is a real output. One is left with the impression that this was the best government to figure out on the go, when the inner processes of the government coalition made the original arrangement for the shooting field politically impossible. This just doesn't last. It might have been tempting for the Workers' Party to say that when the Government does not take the burden by presenting the regional field case, the Workers' Party could also leave the matter behind for a few years. Maybe it would be short term something to win at it, and we're all thinking about Hedmark Workers' Party. But – and it has been the most important thing for us – there would have been a tactically conditional breach of the conversion of the Defense we ourselves and the Storting for many years. What kind of signals would such tactics have sent to all those who in that case would know this, who do not stand at the top of the track when there is laurel to pick up, but who do their job in Defense in the belief that the Storting will provide them with as good opportunities to do the job as possible, and especially if it becomes relevant to enter into serious conflicts. This has to do with our defence policy credibility, not least in terms of the ability to interact effectively with allies and other forces in international operations. Late yesterday, the desperate leader of one of our big commanding organizations, BFO, I believe erroneously in the context that was mentioned, that Norwegian soldiers were well enough trained for the type of operations that could become relevant in the Balkans. As I said, I think it's wrong, but we can't take that kind of worry lightly. These include: the subject of today's proceedings. The notification and the underlying documents also contain a comprehensive material on the disadvantages which unfortunately accompany such a field of shooting and drill. They're no reason to minimize. I refer you to the notification, to the impact assessment and to the underlying reports. But the disadvantages should not be magnified either. It is not intended to make 240 km2 look like a large, damaged battlefield. In at least 75 pst. in the field, it will continue to be possible, subject to certain limitations, to operate in the open air, hunting, fishing, forestry and berry farming. I also remember that the defense has a very good reputation as administrators of nature, and that flora and fauna often thrive as well in shooting and exercise fields as outside. Many people don't think so when it's said, but I'm referring to the committee position and not least to the questions that have been asked from the Environment Committee to the Department. Even the bear tribe has taken up the Älvdalen shooting field in Sweden over the lifetime of the field, even though I am fully aware that there is a bad argument on Hedemark. The working party has considered it an independent objective to impose further restrictions on the activity in the field in relation to the structure of the message, so that more parts of the year can be protected. The so-called business-free period, except for clearing, will be extended by the majority arrangement, so that a total of three months in the period from St. Hans to 1 November will remain silent. Thus, two summer months and one harvest month are mountained. We are all pleased that the majority is united in this. I also remind you that the largest exercises will normally only take place once a year, and with less than a week's duration. Someone asks, what's the point of such a big project if it's just going to be a week a year? I refer to the business plan. There are, of course, a wide range of other activities, but at a lower level than those that require up to four battalions, therefore, a natural field needs to be far greater than what one week testifies to. The use of aeroplanes should be kept to a minimum and the committee setting sets the use of Hierkin, where aeroplanes are used 8-12 hours a year, as a template. Training shots or bombs shall not be fired from aeroplanes for the purpose of practice. The majority of the Committee considers it appropriate to increase the scope of the remedial measures in excess of the Government's amount of 200 million. kr in order to further limit adverse effects on the natural environment, reduce noise problems, etc. These measures need to be carefully planned and implemented in close consultation with the county of Hedmark and its environmental protection department, the county of Hedmark and the directly affected municipalities. I see for my part the noise as the greatest inconvenience, but also reminds me that the extended 0 options will provide several more noise-capped in the Elverum through increased activity on the Teringmoen, than those hit by the Grey Mountain option. The rapporteur has justified the majority's choice: the Holm lake is at least suitable also because the noise load there is without equal is greatest. And in the choice between Gravberget and Gravberget, the majority, after a thorough assessment, have come to the conclusion that it will support the priority of Defence, but it is not with the light heart. I still believe that in a ten-year period, when the field is fully worked up and fully operational – so long it can take – the negative feelings of this will be less than today. Indeed, it is the experience of all other such expansions of shooting and drill fields. But of course, it requires close and constructive cooperation between the Defence Agency, the City of Opomkommune, Hedmark County Council and the County Council and other directly concerned municipalities, and it is the ministry's duty to ensure that once this matter has been settled through the vote of the evening.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e298	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e301	Broad national agreement in defence and security policy has always been very important for a small country. And I just have to say that I am very happy that the alliance in this area that has been present in this country in our best post-war periods is reestablished in this matter. But it's also so that this field of shooting will only be meaningful to the extent that we have a defense that is such that it needs the exercises that are going to take place here, and only to the extent that we have a defence budget that is so that the defense can afford to practice. We saw last year that the Labour Party went into something during the management of the long-term message, but it was not followed up in the budget a few months later. And I hope – as we go in for this shooting field – that Bjørn Tore Godal here can confirm that the Workers' Party will sue that we have the Defense that we should have, that needs such a field, and that in the future it will be able to afford to practice at the level that we put up here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e306	Many have, of course, been concerned about the costs of the field. They are in themselves not deterrent. Distributed over the number of years this is about, this is affordable, and there are far less sizes of annual investment than what we will be discussing in a short time in terms of both frigates and other major new acquisitions in Defense. But I can confirm that the Workers' Party is of course committed to ensuring the financial framework of the Defence Agency, just as all parties with their basics are. But I would like to remind you, when we talk about the long-term programme, that it is right, as the representative Mr Godal says, that it has failed quite a lot – in fact, beyond NOK 1 billion – in relation to the long-term programme's assumptions when the Bondevik government's draft budget was available shortly afterwards. The working party was able to bring back $300 million. NOK of that billion, the right managed to bring back SEK 450 million. of that billion. So if the defence-political credibility is $150 million. kr, which is the difference, I look with confidence to cooperate on it in the future as well. Of course, this is just a testimony that when we enter into the kind of large budget rounds that the budgetary procedure in the autumn is, the Defence Committee and the defence spokespersons must find themselves fighting internally in their groups on what are the priorities, and there we all do a job to the best of our ability. But it cannot be produced as a fundamental difference between Right and Others – although the representative Ingvald Godal did not say that, I guess in the extension of what he said.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e311	This is an action far beyond the bounds of the Planning and Building Act requiring impact assessment, and it has then been widely implemented. The principle of impact assessment is to assess the benefits for the respondent, in this case the defence, against the disadvantages that the parties concerned are subject to. And if the benefits are less for the respondent than the disadvantages for the affected, the measure should not be recommended, and the action holder must then be referred to a different concept, even if it is not optimal for the respondent. That's the principle, and that's from the point of view of the impact studies. Has the Workers' Party considered that the benefits to the Defence are greater than the disadvantages suffered by the parties concerned? Is that what is behind the conclusion? Or is that what we hear some say, and as the representative also said now, that the option is rejected by the Defense, that we cannot therefore use the normal mechanisms in the Impact Assessments because it is rejected by the Defence – then we must put aside the general logic and run a different logic because the action holder rejects what is the principle in the Planning and Building Act?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e316	If we thought the defense was wrong, we could of course ignore the military views, and then it would have been a simpler matter both for Åvätte municipality and everyone else. But then it would not only be the defense that had been wrong, it would also be the Storting through its previous treatment of the conversion of the entire defence structure and the defence concept. After all, it has just gone to the point where, apart from a halve of land defence, it is to be compensated by efficient equipment, which is now fully acquired, and which can be effectively trained through two major regional fields, one in the north and the other in the south. But I repeat, if we had felt that there had been a bad craft done in the defense in relation to justifying the arrangement, as if reviewing the need in a proper way, that matter had never come to Stortinget. But it is, as I was in the beginning, a balance of the different goals that Stortinget sets high, we have done through today's setting. Of course, there are disadvantages to this decision that are to be taken today, after all, but the overall objectives that are linked to our defence policy capability are pervasive to us. But of course there is no speciality for the very matter we are dealing with here today; we have a wide range of issues in the Storting where one balances different purposes against each other, and where environmental protection and nature protection are being implemented stopped against other objectives, and where the Storting takes a final balance.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e321	My first question is at the Workers' Party's relationship with friendship. It may seem strange to me in a debate like this. But what happens is that Jagland travels around the country, now the longest in Eastfold, and says that the center gives the Advance Party and the Right for great power in this country, and now the center must choose. Yes, it makes sense to the right, we're thinking in SV. But what's going on in the big environmental issues? What's happening today? Who are the partners today? That's exactly this enemy! What kind of troubling is this working party, if one at the same time says that here's the enemy and here's Hagen as one – in the next round, in the greatest natural intervention of the time – says that no, you're really my friend? We have to get an explanation of what this means. My second question is on the defence concept. The Prime Minister did something here in Stortinget on Thursday to ensure that there is a need for an explanation of what defence concept we are going to have. Given that it's been ten years since the Cold War was over, and that it's 38 years since a plan of this field, which is the greatest natural intervention of the time, wouldn't it be reasonable to do what SV suggests, simply to become some of the Storting about what kind of defense concept we want, and then discuss whether we need a field of fire?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e328	I do not quite know what it is like in the committee where the representative is represented, but at least in the defence committee it is not that we take our positions depending on what the other parties think. Of course, we judge matters separately and on the basis of what we think about them. And whether it's the Christian People's Party that believes one or the Advance Party that means the other or the Right that means the third, doesn't matter to our fraction in the Defence Committee. We go in for what we think is factually right, and then we take the support from the edge it would come, just as I think you would in a normal waxing committee. I can put three lines below it when I say that's the way it is. It does not appear that we take a position because someone has meant anything else from another party in the Defence Committee. But the matter also has a history through several labor party governments, regardless of what the Progress Party must have meant, and the logic of the case's history, I have explained through my article. Defence concept: Under every conceivable defence concept, we need effective national defence in Norway. No one has disputed it. It may well be that numerically and quantitatively come at an even lower level than what we have today, but it does not mean that we should then bury the possibilities for this small defence to be more effective. That's the concept that underlies today's arrangement, and that's how it's unchanged and untouched by the kind of principleal and slightly foggy debates that are sometimes drawn up in such a connection. I can't see that it changes anything. I should like the SV to be represented in the Defence Committee, so that they might feel a little more at home in these issues and go into them in a different way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e339	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e342	The thing we're going to deal with today has a long history. This is a difficult thing. The problems are: 1st@item: inlistbox To give the defense good practice opportunities to solve the tasks the defense is facing.2. An intervention of 250,000 decks in a relatively untouched natural area. There are two national overall principles being set up against each other here. The government's conclusion has been criticised because, on the one hand, defence needs have not been so clearly depreciated for the benefit of the environment, but, on the other hand, defence needs have not been met. Let me first put down a couple of things. We in the Christian People's Party place great emphasis on the national obligation to ensure the defence of the practice that conforms to our defence policy objectives. It is important that we give our soldiers and command the security of education and realistic training opportunities. We in the Christian People's Party see that the use of areas of defence today is not enough. The defence, with the technological development we're in, has an exercise need that is greater than the areas used today. It is also important for us in the Christian People's Party to take care of the environment and natural resources, so that subsequent generations can have such natural experiences as we can. It becomes an increasingly important task for us to take care of the natural resources we have, in an administratively sensible way. It's our job as politicians to take both of these challenges seriously. At the intersection of these two national challenges, it is our conclusion that the creation of a new and larger region will bring greater disadvantages and negative consequences than the benefits we achieve, and the benefits such a field will bring to society as a whole. The government's conclusion is clear that there is an overall obligation to ensure the defence departments' ability to achieve the objectives they are assigned to them. The government is also of the opinion that the interventions that will result from a regional field will be too expensive for the nation's overall environmental resources. Impact assessments and consultation opinions point to the significant negative impact on nature, the environment and society of the establishment of a region in the Eastern region. These negative consequences have been further reinforced by the more than 30 consultations we have conducted in the Committee and by the innumerable contacts we have received. Let me take some of the negative consequences of the establishment of a region area of the East will entail: Noise is a concept that can be difficult to understand for us who have a daily effect in the noise of big city life. It's just when we come out to places where we suddenly feel the silence, that we become aware of what noise zones we normally live in. For those who live near the alternatives outlined, silence and tranquillity are a much larger part of everyday life. Then the presence of noise becomes a completely different experience. The trade mark of the forest has been defined as calm by many. I think that in the long run, the population in a shooting range will also turn to noise. We humans are created with an adaptability, but perhaps now we have to look at what noise-free areas we have and how we are going to take care of these areas. This is a value option that we who are going to manage the resources have to take seriously. The impact studies further point to the fact that emissions to water and land will be a problem in both the Grey Mountains and the Gravel Mountains. Even in the short version that has come to the notification, it is said that here is the unfavourable ground conditions in the concentrated target area, and that proximity to Vesle-Flisa poses a relatively high risk of the release of metals from corroded projectile fragments into the watercourse. In the grey mountain there is soil with binding capacity, but there is also swamp with underlying morene mass in the concentrated target area. Here you can also spread contamination and metals in the run-off. Both options point out that there are poor opportunities for remedial action in relation to water pollution. In the case of animal and bird life, studies are carried out around other training fields showing that there are growing populations of individual animal, bird and insect species in these areas. I think, fortunately, much of the creation has an enormous capacity to adapt to all the interventions we're doing. But species have been lost. And if we have to give up something, and what, we don't know. The hillside area of the bear in the grey mountain has been mentioned, and also that the bear trunk of the Älvdalen has grown. And that might be the case. But we know that there are especially nests with kids who are vulnerable to being disturbed during the hi term. The mortality rate of pups and intestines that have been aroused during the hi-up period has increased. And we're going to take that seriously in relation to the reproduction of a bear tribe that we want to preserve. In both options, there is a rich diversity of cultural memories and ancient memories. There is a high incidence of iron age and Viking age forenums. It includes capture installations, coal pits and high national value iron winches. In the Grey Mountain special emphasis is placed on the well-preserved and typical large-scale gardens. In the Tomb, it is primarily the special culture of discovery that has shaped the field in recent times, and culture lives on in the population. The Gravberg option is part of the area defined on both the Swedish and Norwegian sides as part of the area of the Finn culture. Cultural memories and the cultural environment may be a problem primarily in the concentrated target area. In other areas and in roadways, cultural memory destruction can be avoided by monitoring, marking and bypassing. But I can't possibly imagine an active use of cultural memories in the middle of a field of shooting and practice. I cannot deal with all the negative consequences of a range of shooting and drills of this magnitude. But there's more. In the interests of the nation, there are too many negative consequences to the establishment of such a region. But, as I have mentioned before, the defense needs something more. The concept of operation has changed from a static, stagnant form of battle to more mobile concepts of constant conflict. And then what? The so-called 0 option is rejected by the FBT action holder as insufficient even if the justification is missing. The government sees that the defense needs better practice than it does per. today. That is why we want the Ministry of Defence to explore other national solutions – a so-called 0+ option – which, without such significant negative consequences, better meet the defence's need for better practice. That is to say, a more optimal use of the existing shooting areas and their possible extension, including the Brain. Brains will be decommissioned by the possible establishment of a region field. However, continued use of the field is a premise both in terms of protection and state plans. So it's not added up to an alternate use of the field. The Christian People's Party clearly sees that there are negative consequences of continued use of the Brain as well. But this is an area that has been in use for a long time. A return to the area for civil purposes is assumed to take up to 30 years. This will take so long to make sure that blinders are unharmed. The operator writes that it will be a comprehensive task to restore landscapes and the natural environment. Only this should be an argument against establishing a completely new field of practice. An increased use of existing firearms fields with possible extensions will probably not address the optimal needs of the defence. But an investigation of such an option with consequences for defence, society and the environment had been in place before we decided to set up a new field. There has been a great commitment to this matter. Many have expressed an opinion about this field. I find it reassuring that so many show interest in such a major environmental issue. It is regrettable that a likely majority in this Chamber will not be involved in an investigation into an expanded 0 option. I bring this up with proposal No. 2, which is included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e388	Dagrun Eriksen has addressed the proposal to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e393	The Christian People's Party has been along the whole way in terms of the defence structure and the new defence concept. In the Question Time here in the Chamber on 29 October 1997, the then Minister of Defence, Fjærvoll, answered a question from Bjørn Hernæs: ‘The Government and the Minister for Defence do not propose a new special investigation round.’ And on 4 March 1998, the then Secretary of Defense, Færvoll, also replied to a question from Per Ove Width: «The Government considers that the case is mature for a decision». And as if this were not enough, Prime Minister Bondevik said last Thursday here in his NATO statement: ‘The aim will be to ensure that defence can meet security policy challenges as they emerge now and in the years to come.’ A prerequisite for achieving that goal must be to be able to train and learn how to do the job that the Defense is supposed to do. The reverse operation that I feel the Christian People's Party has taken must have taken place lately, for I read the whole story backwards so that the result that exists today should not have been like that. My question is then: When the Christian People's Party really changed its point of view along the way, and how can one, with the justification given by the representative Eriksen to investigate further, really go in for the Grave Mountain as an option 2, which the Government also makes in the message?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e415	The Christian People's Party has not turned around to see that the Defense has a need for practice. What we want is an investigation and a stronger reason and an explanation of the consequences for the defense of using a 0+ option. The message says that a 0 option is rejected. And no more about it. I'm asking for a greater reason for what lies there for the defense, and how we can use a 0+ option. I have no bad conscience when I stand here, because we have put the popular and sensible thing on top, when you see all the negative consequences that such a field of fire will bring, set up against the nation's environmental resources. And being able to take a balance when you have the case on the table is what politicians should do. Regardless of what someone has promised here or someone has promised there or someone has said, it's when the matter is on the table with the facts, that we're going to decide what we want to go in for. Then we say that this is going to be too much impact, and we want to look at this and give the defense more realistic practice opportunities than it has today, but in a way that has less negative consequences than what's on the table today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e422	The representative, Eriksen, has defended the position of the government parties – or lack of attitude – as well as possible. That's certainly a bit of an achievement! As far as I can understand, the need to investigate the so-called 0+ option has to be in need of buying time, because if you were to investigate this, it obviously means an extended use of the Brain, and not to continue like today. And Brain, the representative will be well-known, has a terrain and a vegetation that is not very suitable if you want to practice with terrain coverage. Besides, it's far away from the garrison, and it costs a lot. Would the representative be satisfied that the investigation concluded that the area had to be expanded significantly, and would it be in line with the needs of the defence, as the representative also says is important? Would a 0+ option mean completely new, but other areas, and would you accept it, because it would probably be at least as problematic – then as now? And what about the dicemo? Is it appropriate to expand and thus also increase the noise load for the population of Elverum? I honestly believe that the need for investigation, which the representative Eriksen constantly wants, is driven by the need to win time and nothing else, and not for defence reasons, and I strongly doubt also after all for environmental reasons. Does the representative, Eriksen, think that the ostrich's way of acting in difficult situations is an appropriate procedure for governments under certain conditions as well?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e433	To stand here on the pulpit as a nanny and to speak against great lords like Godals here and Røssjorde there, then I don't feel like an ostrich, but I feel pretty tough here I stand with my head raised high and speaking the great men in the middle of the opposite! So let's see if we need to buy time. In a case like this, which is characterized by some as the greatest environmental issue of our time, we need to spend time, and we need to think well about it before we adopt something like this. I am fully aware that an investigation of a 0+ option can lead to extensions on the Hierkin. And I said in my post, that it's clear that we view it as a difficult thing. But when it comes to using a whole new area instead of using the existing ones with extensions, I could, for environmental reasons too, go in for an extension to the Brain, because it's important that we give the Defence Good Practice Capabilities. With regard to the Terningmo, I record through the hearings we've had, that the population of Elverum is moving towards a region field. They know what a 0+ option could result from increased activity on the dice. The signals we've been given are that they don't want a region field east, and there will be loads elsewhere. But we write in our proposal that it should be in cooperation with the municipalities concerned, and that we should keep in close contact with those affected.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e442	I notice in several articles the care of the predator tribe in Hedmark. There are obviously no limits to what blessings Hedmark will be subjected to in this matter and in other matters. We just get to archive that for later use. Otherwise, the representative described Eriksen's party trap fog conditions in the Grey Mountain during the visit of the Defence Committee. This may indicate that the fog has sat on its eyes, so that it is reflected also in the answers we get to questions. This was not least the case-rapporteur's reply to a previous reply from me. But what I wanted to assume now is a quotation that the then Minister of Defence joined me in the Question Time in October 1997. The Minister of Defence said: ‘I therefore consider today that we have a factually thought-out need for a region field on Norwegian soil located in the East.’ This attracted considerable attention in Hedmark. The Eastern Landing wrote in a leadership position: ‘Værvoll without support’. And the against rapporteur said that she was both "surprising and not so little cursed," it says, "over the fact that the matter is run in the way that Bjørn Hernæs... now does." Now the representative tells Eriksen that it is the noise that has been much of the cause that the Christian People's Party has turned around. In fact, I can confirm that the noise from the Atmosphere can be quite embarrassing at times, but nevertheless it might have been interesting to get along: when was the Christian People's Party converted from ‘a factually thought-out need for region... localized to the East’, and that an extension to the national sanctuary of the Dovre and the Hierkin are better, for example. according to noise conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e458	I record that Dovre and Hierkin have become the hostages of the majority for environmental arguments: we can release Hierkin, and then it must be worth putting a region field in the East. To me, nature is nature. Nowhere is more sacred than anyone else. And in relation to establishing a new area, which I said in my answer instead, or using an area that is already in use, I pick the last one. A lot has happened in the case in the course of the procedure. We have had to take a lot of rounds of questions in the committee, and we have received many enquiries as to the negative consequences of setting up a region. Whether there has been a conversion for the Christian People's Party – I don't think so. We have asked for a postponement in order to have a different basis for decision. A need for practice, I have stressed this time and again from this pulpit today, we see absolutely. But we want a different basis for decision than what is on the table today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e465	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e468	Let me first be allowed to say a warm welcome to a new councillor, and to wish close. I want to be so ready to give a little advice, and it is: Find your own style and listen to the big crowd! So to the point. I can hardly think of anything more cynical than sending soldiers in battle without the best possible practice and equipment. There are people in this Chamber who are in favour of a military action in the Balkans, who are also members of Norwegian soldiers, but who are here today against a time-consuming exercise field. I wonder if they would have done it if it was their own sons who were going to move out and do the job with life as an effort. And I think it's thoughtful that this debate might take place a few days before Norwegian soldiers go into sharp conflict first time since World War II. The need for a new field of shooting and drill in Austland was known to be all drawn up in St.prp. No 86 for 1979-80. Professional development later has only reinforced the need. Not least, the development of weapons has greatly reduced the ability to operate traditional defence battles from confirmed settings. This has been replaced by the concept of maneuvering, rapid offensive operations or quick movements to avoid becoming a frame itself, both in the defence of Norway and in sharp international operations. This is the basis for the structural conversion of our defence that was started during the St.meld process. No 16 for 1992-93. It built, as we know, in the Willoch Commission's position, a commission that was otherwise appointed to assess our defence needs after the end of the Cold War. And this I want to stress: we are still listening to the debate today – ten years after the Cold War was over – that now we have to take the consequence that the Cold War is over. It did this house already when we dealt with the setting from the Willoch Commission. We've had two long-term messages later where we've been evaluating defence needs, as they are after the end of the Cold War. And of course we will continue to do that. During this process, it is decided that the operation of the Army in peace should concentrate substantially on Inner Troms and Austland. The army's most important training centre in South Norway is now known in the Østerdalen and Solør areas: in Rena, Elverum and Haslemoen. Overall, this means that there is a clear need for a modern field of shooting and practice in the same geographical area. The matter is thoroughly dealt with by the defense, and I will praise those who have done this work. As you know, the case is controversial, yet in my many years in the Defence Committee, I have hardly been away in a case where there have been so few complaints about the distribution and preliminary work. That greeting I would like to ask the Council of State to bring with it the right of the person concerned. The case spokesperson has done much more for the technical aspects of the case, and I refer to this. When it comes to the assessment of options, this is to say, the government's option is not an option at all. The brain is a mountain top that in no way meets today's requirements for a field of fire and practice. Besides, it's a long way from the users. The other fields of South Norway are too small, with no extension possible. They are also too far away from the users. The government's so-called option does not, therefore, satisfy in any way the requirements of a time training field. This is just another example of the government pushing the problems and problems ahead instead of solving them. The Älvdalen firefield in Dalarna in Sweden has also been mentioned. There seemed to be every reason to believe that if there had never been so little realism in this, the government would hope for it. But she didn't, and it speaks for itself. The Älvdalen is also far from the users – 17-20 miles – and there are a number of counter-figures not least of an economic nature. However, the decisive thing is that, in a situation where crisis threatens, everyone will have a great need to practice on a large scale. The Swedish would probably need their own field. In addition, in such a situation, it would also be very difficult for non-aligned Sweden to allow NATO troops to practice on its soil. So we can safely put a line over the Älvdalen as an alternative. So we're saying that with the options that the defense has solved. The most important thing for the Right is that we get a field. We have noticed that the defence of his alternative Lake Holm is in third place, and that the Gravelberg and the Grey Mountain are considered relatively equivalent. On the basis of an overall assessment, where the importance of forestry and the view of the party’s local team in Hedmark has also been given weight, the Right has concluded that it is an alternative to the Graveberg. If this is the case, the Right subsidiary voice of the Grey Mountain. Another right-hand speech will go into this. There will always be a disadvantage with a field of fire and practice where it is added. It seems to me that the committee has gone a long way when it comes to remedial measures. I also find reason to note that this establishment makes it possible to detach the Brain field and lead it back to natural state as far as it can. When it comes to nature protection, more and more people are concerned that experience shows that animals are quite comfortable in shooting and exercise fields, and that it seems that they are pulling there. There is therefore no particularly strong argument in this matter in my view. When it comes to the noise, I think it's important that with the new field, the number of people who are the victim of military training noise will be reduced by far fewer in the Camp in Elverum who will be plagued by this. Another right-hand speech will also go into the environmental side of the case. When it comes to compensation, I thought it was important that the defense made proper representations. It must be a minimum requirement that when we take things from people, they should have proper compensation. It is important that this is shaped in such a way that what they get is real and of lasting value. This means that makeshift needs to be used as far as it can, and that it has to be arranged so that public forest, the same as it has, is used in this context, and that it does not become so that bus and bus duty will later create problems for those who get new forest through makeshift in another municipality. Everyone fights about jobs, and I didn't think it was unreasonable for those who benefit from all these jobs in the Østerdalen/Sour region to suffer the disadvantages. When it comes to what Bjørn Tore Godal had in mind in his reply to my reply earlier, it is to say that in the Right we attach great importance to consistency between objectives and means of defence policy. If we want a target, we're going to have to follow up with the means completely consistent, otherwise it's going to be messy. The problems that we have in Defense today come largely from the fact that the Storting sets goals, but does not follow up with economics. It is a fundamental problem that creates uncertainty, it creates a risk of misinvestment, etc. We in the Right have therefore consistently, to the last five o'clock, followed up this in our budget proposals for all the years I can remember we have had this in the Stortinget. That's what I hope others will do. Let's not set bigger goals than that we're able to follow up financially. Then it's going to be a whole system. With these words, I'll put right's suggestion in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e506	The representative of Ingvald Godal has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e511	The right has landed on the Grave Mountain and not, as the majority, on the Grey Mountain as the best option for practice fields. The tomb is a good field based on a purely professional-military assessment, but from an overall social assessment there are many problems. Finn culture and Finnskogen will be strongly affected by the Grave Mountain. It'll be clear in the investigation and the hearings we've had. The proximity of Sweden with noise into a neighbouring country is not good. Would the Right have added such a field e.g. against the Russian border? What surprises me most about the position of the Right is that they deviate from what the professional militants have advocated. In his post, Mr. Ingvald Godal said that he praised those who were behind the investigation. The question will then be: Don't you trust the experts on the right of the defense? Does Right have other military experts? Or are there external arguments that govern the Right? It is quite new and quite sensational that the Right when taking completely outside arguments into a defence policy debate and not listening to the professional militaries.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e521	The professional militants are very much in the process of equalizing the Gravberg and the Grey Mountain in the setting. At some points they say that the Tomb is better. Climate change is lower, and it is very beneficial in terms of landscape. So they're very much equivalent. Then other arguments get more weight, and then we've concluded with the Grave Mountain, which I've been to before, and which others are going to come back to later. The relationship with Sweden and the consideration of the Finn culture are negative elements in this context. On the other hand, we have the ratio that when it applies, for example. forestry and those living in the area, there are large forests owned by large companies or by the State in the Graveberget option. In Rena, there's a lot more local busset that's going to end. Of course, it counts in the direction of placing the field on the Grave Mountain. One has other things, such as civil aviation matters, which I think have been overestimated in this context, but that is, to a certain extent, a moment. All in all, on the basis of an assessment of this, we are going to land mainly on the Gravberg, but we are going to support the Gråfjellet subsidiary.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e530	The representative of Godal is concerned that the minority does not see the responsibility of training our soldiers until they are sent to war. The Christian People's Party takes responsibility. I will ask Godal as follows: Does Godal think that the security and future of the soldiers are and fall with the establishment of the region of the East? Although Godal did not address the environmental problems in his article, I would nevertheless problemate something about this. Is a closure of the Hierkin shooting field, with a planned return time of up to 30 years, any environmental argument? At all times, the defense will be active in this area to secure future users from blinders. It's obvious that this isn't going to be a recreational area for most people in a long time. Promoting this as an argument for safeguarding environmental interests in relation to the establishment of the Eastern Region is, at best, to be seen as a result. How can the Right preserve the environment around the Grey Mountain by finening the environment in the field of the Hierkin?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e537	When it comes to the responsibility and the question of the security of the solar data depends on the fact that we get this field, the answer is a clear yes. For those we are going to send out in active combat or in defence of Norway, only the very best practice conditions are good enough. A little poorer practice, as the Christian People's Party goes in for, can very quickly result in the loss of life, which otherwise could have worked out. That's the seriousness of this situation. When it comes to the environment, it is clear that there are parts of the area where there are blinders — it has our impact fields — and it will take a long time before it can be used, but there are large parts of the rest that can be used fairly quickly. When it comes to run-off, it's also run-off from the Brain. In summary, I thought it was possible to release Dovrefjell – Hjerkinn, and that Dovrefjell could then become a very large natural area, where one has a national park right up to the border, by way of way up the handicaps of the grey mountain. When one takes it all along, I think it's quite clear that we should get a field of fire close to those who are going to use it, even if it's going to require something from nature. I just have to add that I believe that the consequences for nature are very exaggerated. We've been up by e.g. Mauken-Blötind and seen where they've been shooting for 30-40 years. One almost doesn't notice. One mark is the strips of track that lie there after tanks, etc., but otherwise it is quite minimal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e548	There's some sort of criminal exercism in the argument here today from some teams. Among other things, the representative Ingvald Godal said that once this district has got the jobs, they also have to deal with the disadvantages. But then Godal's story can be bad, because Årvet kommune made some premise before Rena's camp was established. Among other things, Åmot kommune Trandum wanted a technical workshop linked to the municipality in connection with the establishment. We know that the majority in this hall went against it. Then Åmot also said no to the field of fire, i.e. the area of the east. However, against the municipality, the area of the exercise area associated with Rødsmoen has been depreciated. So there's been some disadvantages about this establishment, and then I think that this argument is going to be something sought and easily won. So to a different relationship. Godal said that if it had been realistic with the Älvdalen shooting field, you would have brought it. We know the history there. There has been a performance in the matter, and I expect that we will come back to it later today. But Godal himself, as a member of the Defence Committee, should have been involved in how realistic this is. The Swedes probably need this field themselves," said Godal. What is the reality of the Älvdalen shooting field is that in 1997 it had 103 000 days of education in this field. Last year, the figure was reduced to 25 000 days of education, and the field of management is looking for more users and has expressed a positive opinion that foreign soldiers can practice there. It's a field of 540,000 dekars. Is it not forward-looking in relation to the ambitions of the Defence and also Mr. Does Godal have, in terms of the size of training fields and length of shooting distances for the future?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e555	It's like this in most people's lives that people want the benefits, but not the disadvantages, and this debate is also asking for a certain amount of it. I believe that those who have received such a great advantage as for example. on Rena, with all the workplaces and everything that goes with them, there is also a need to take in some disadvantages. When it applies to the Älvdalen, I said in my post that the decisive argument here is that I don't believe that neutral Sweden would allow NATO troops to practice on its territory in a situation in Europe where it's about to eat and where everyone has to practice. Although Sweden reduces its defence and there will be less need for exercises for that reason, I believe all historical experience suggests that the Swedishs had hardly dropped NATO troops to practice in their territory in an acute war situation in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e562	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e565	Defence has undergone major changes in recent years. Today's army is smaller, more mobile and has more advanced and far-reaching weapons than before. Equipment and operational concept are adapted to a more mobile defence. During the period in which the Defense has undergone these changes, a new training field has been established in South Norway, the Red Squad, in close association with the newly established Rena camp. The defence has also reported the need for a new field of shooting and drill of approx. 250,000 covers where the new concepts and weapons can be trained through manoeuvres that end up in sharp ammunition shooting drills. According to the report, the design unit for this concept is exercises with four battalions — up to 4000 soldiers. According to the notification, such exercises will normally take place up to once per. years, less than one week. The rest of the year, part of the field's capacity will be unused. The study on the establishment of a regional field of fire and drill in the East has, among other things, its starting point at St.meld. No 16 for 1992-93 and the long-term notification of the defence for the period 1994-98. Since then, the case has been the subject of a comprehensive impact assessment based on three proposed locations east of Hedmark. These impact assessments have revealed significant negative impacts on nature, the environment and society in the three areas concerned. These negative conclusions have been consistently reinforced through extensive consultations in the context of the impact studies and through the consultations and inspections we have had in the Defence Committee. In this context, overall policy assessments on whether or not they allocate resources to policy-makers — in this case the defence — are more important than the environmental, nature and society disadvantages identified by the impact assessments. In this regard, the conclusion of the Centre Party is the same as that of the Government. We are faced with a case where two national interests – defence and environmental, nature and society considerations – conflict strongly with each other. The government is of the opinion that the nature of the measure is such a negative impact on nature, the environment and society that the defence must be referred to other solutions, although they do not fully satisfy the needs of the defence. The government’s view is that national security is currently being ensured at an acceptable level and that the interventions that will result from the establishment of a region field will be too costly for the overall environmental interests of the nation. The Central Party supports these conclusions. Any establishment of a region field is referred to as ‘the largest natural intervention in Norway’s history’. Although we are dealing with the matter in reality here today, it already has a long history, which many people have had. The first time the question was in Stortinget, was through the treatment of St.prp. No 86 for 1979-80, on certain organizational changes etc. in the Defence. Later the matter has been dealt with through St.meld. No 16 for 1992-93, the long-term notification of the defence 1994-1998 and the long-term notification for 1999-2002. Prior to any establishment, a major regulatory process, a very large land acquisition, preferably solved through a make change/earth change, the implementation of remedial measures and, of course, the works themselves shall be carried out. The field can thus only be operational in six-eight years, and the project management tells NTB yesterday that the field will be completed in 2008. Much has happened both in relation to the safety situation in Norway and in the defence since the case first appeared in 1979. Much may also happen until the field is finished in six-eight years. Among other things, we need to: address a new long-term message, and the Prime Minister announced in his statement on the NATO Summit in Washington last Thursday that he would take the initiative of a rapidly working sample with broad political participation to provide general and principal advice prior to the next long-term communication. I will in no way pre-empt the handling of these matters, but note that there may be some changes in the needs we see today that underlie current treatment. In a matter of this nature, with so great a natural intervention and so far a time perspective, one should also have a precautionary principle. Even on the basis of such a principle, establishment should not be recommended. Such a conclusion means that the defense must adapt to other solutions, even though we realize that these are not entirely optimal for the defence. Based on the conditions I have described, I believe they are acceptable. Since the environmental aspects of the broadest sense underpinning our conclusion, such a solution must have far less negative consequences than the alternatives investigated east of Hedmark County, and it must have flexibility in relation to future defence decisions. We think it's the most appropriate, from an environmental point of view, to start from the shooting and practice fields that are already in use, and have been so for a long time. A more optimal use of the land currently used by the Defence must be investigated. If the defence considers it to be necessary to extend it, we assume that they are marginal in relation to the areas already in use. The proposal for the extension of the Hierkin presented by the Defence Building Service in the context of the consultation round on the extension of the Dovre National Park is in no way acceptable. The description of the 0 option in the message only indicates the need for long-range shooting positions outside the field of the Hierkin. We assume if such extensions are considered necessary, that proposals for such extensions are made in close cooperation and understanding with the municipalities concerned. There has been a proposal from the representative of Dagrun Eriksen on this which we are in favour of. This proposal means that the centre party is in favour of continued operation on the Hierkin. Isolatedly, we don't have any problem seeing that decommissioning the Hierkin means a natural gain in the area. But when the price is a major intervention in other natural areas east of Hedmark, we have come to such a conclusion in the Center Party with regard to Hierkin. This picture also shows that the municipalities in the area have given a clear message that they want to maintain the activity and employment related to the field. This does not apply to the municipality of Oppdal in the South-Trøndelag, which has expressed the opposite view, but it concerns the other municipalities concerned. I must note that the view I have outlined here has not just been given a majority by the committee's proceedings. The majority of the Committee proposes the establishment of a new regional area in the grey mountain region of the municipality of Åmot. If this has a majority today, it is important that the negative consequences of such an establishment and documented by the impact assessments are minimised as far as possible by comprehensive remedial measures. In designing these measures, good cooperation and real influence from local and regional authorities — municipalities, counties and counties are important. In addition to the impact assessments and the extensive work done by many groups in connection with them and beyond, there is also some evidence to build on. The Gardermoen development, e.g., which is under a closure and evaluation phase, has provided very valuable experience in what challenges one faces in establishing a national action in a pre-established community. It is important that, in the event of an establishment in Å, one should take on the basis of experience, for example. by the various actors involved in the Gardermoen development. The most important conditions will be to carry out a land acquisition through a make-shift/earth change, which gives a reasonable design of property after any establishment. Pure state property, not public opinion, and the forest of the Information Society's fund in the area, must enter such a land change. Furthermore, it is necessary to establish a business plan that reduces the noise of neighbours and users of the area around it. Noise insulation must be carried out in dwellings and recreational dwellings which are subject to excessive noise. Action plans must be established to ensure that the noise zones are not extended after a period of operation. Operation must be adapted to the environment, not vice versa. Water pollution can be a major problem. The field has runoff to good fish rivers. It is therefore necessary to take measures to avoid contamination of water. In addition, I refer to our remarks in the position regarding remedial measures, if the majority were to adopt an establishment. Our conclusion, then, is that the negative impacts on the environment, nature and society are so great that the field should not be established after any of the investigated alternatives. The defense must base its practice pattern on the fields they already have today, and I hope to support such a view in this room today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e606	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e609	The centre party is the only party on Stortinget that has seriously raised the question of the possibility to practice in Älvdalen shooting field in Dalarne, Sweden. In their comment on page 21 of the setting, they say: ‘The member of the Central Party regrets that the use of Älvdalen gunfield in Dalarne Län in Sweden was not considered a current alternative early in the process.’ The representative Glötvold has also been inside the Älvdalen shooting field in one of his lines in today's debate. I would like to ask the representative, Hovind, what makes it possible for the Central Party to see the possibility of going into and practicing in Sweden, when several former defence ministers, among others. The Minister of Defense from his own government, Färvoll, has rejected this possibility? In addition, the Swedish Minister of Defence has stated that he is very sceptical about having the defence of another country practised in a Swedish field of fire. Nothing has been said in the post of the representative Hovind about this, and I would like to have a deepening of the comment that is in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e621	In the setting, I regret that the Älvdalen was not an alternative early in the process. It has, among other things, the relationship between the local representatives both in Hedmark and in Dalarna Län as a practical alternative. We've been over there and we've seen that it's a practical alternative. However, there are certain aspects of national policy that have not been clarified and that have made it not a real alternative now. Among other things, the need for preparedness, emergency training in relation to threats to the East, has been an argument. I now register that the head of the Workers' Party in a chronicle today shifts focus in relation to it. It is international operations, terrorism – more international relations – it is now being focused on by the leader of the Labour Party. It might help change vision in relation to the Älvdalen, I don't know. But time will show whether it is a realistic future alternative. In addition, this has been the case in the Nordic Council, and also from the national political point of view in Sweden, there were positive statements by some ministers. I see that the question has in no way been reworked, but it may become relevant in the future. That's why I think it's right to keep it warm.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e629	The manoeuvres of the centre party in this matter are a little special. It seems that something has happened in the Central Party from the representative Jakobsen, sitting safely and firmly in the Defence Committee and taking part in the formulation of the Innst. S. No 150 for 1992-93, which was issued in 1993. At that time, the foundation for modern defence was laid, and the education of defence was also based. Then there were no reservations, as far as I can remember. If you read the setting, you will find no indication of anything else but that you agreed on the need that was. So something must have happened in the meantime. So you try to look for coverage by looking at everything else, that's the 0+ option, when it's obvious that the tone is: we really don't want any more shooting and practice fields at all, and you're going to practice with soldiers in garrisons, so please keep you inside the fence, so you don't get outside and bother anyone. So there's something that's limping, and something must obviously have happened. Then you talk about long-range shooting, you might accept it by further use of the Brain, but you don't say a pipe about which other alternatives are involved. Now you've been clung to the Älvdalen – everyone doesn't know that's possible, and that's the answer is also given by former Minister of Defence. So what has happened since the plans were made? Could it be that this has something to do with the Vice-Presidentship of the Centre Party, or a special rapporteur in the City of Åmvette? Is it possible that this is the problem of the Central Party’s big group? In other words, my question is, what has happened since 1993 with regard to the Defence and the Center Party?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e638	I will first be able to distance myself from the insinuation that individuals instruct the Center Party in individual questions. We have sensible, well-processed processes that build up to our conclusions. I wasn't in 1992. I understand that part of the decision in 1992 was that all garrisons should have access to a close-up field. It has all the garrisons today, if you ignore those that are right in the middle of Oslo. So the situation that Røss soil describes, that everyone should sit inside the fence and look, is in no way real. Røsdorde knows that very well. The dimensioning of a region field is, as I said in my post, exercise with four battalions. Per. Today it is unproblematic in the areas to which the defence has access to practice with one battalion. The report states that four battalions are to be practiced up to one week a year. So the situation is unproblematic for 51 weeks, the 52, it becomes a problem that you have to solve by making the defense feel better and by contributing something in relation to one of the areas. But the black-and-white paint that's going on from the majority here, that it's either about spending 250,000 goals in Hedmark, or that all those in charge and reps who are inside at all times, are behind a fence, so the situation is in no way. It's very nuanced, and the chairman of the committee knows that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e647	I respect the fact that there are no individuals directing the Center Party, and then I take note that it is the whole party that has gone off track in defence matters. I would also like to address what Fossli had to say, that the Centre Party regrets the lack of investigation into the Älvdalen. I shall ignore the fact that the word ‘complaint’ is a relatively strong word in this Chamber, not least when it is directed towards its own government. Røss soils went back to 1993. I want to go back to June 1997, three or four days before that big thing broke up. Then the representatives Ola D. Glötvold, Bjørg Hope Galtung, Magnar Schwarzåslökken and Rolf Ketil Bjørn promoted a document no. Eight proposals to investigate the use of the Älvdalen shooting range in Sweden as an alternative to the Defence Plans for a Regional Field in the East. After all, everyone, probably also the representative of Mr Hovind, knows that Document No. Eight proposals do not go from one landfill to another. The question thus becomes relatively interesting: What in the world is the result of the fact that the Central Party in the government has failed to investigate the alternative that the representatives of the Central Party would have investigated in June 1997? This alliance between an SV that has in the meantime become NATO-friendly, and a centre party that no longer takes into account the defence, is of course a constellation that I understand that it may feel a little uncomfortable to be part of. But the proposal was now there, and even though the Senter party has not otherwise set annoying marks in this government, they have had the opportunity to see to it that they can find out what they themselves are talking about so hotly. It would have been interesting to hear why a proposal made three or four days before the Storting went apart, at all, was not taken into account when the same batch came into the government position.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e654	In the long-term communication, the government said that it would carry out an impact assessment around this, just look at the benefits of the defence in relation to the disadvantages. That was the starting point of the long-term message, and one would come back when the job was done. The majority in the Committee and the majority in this Chamber, comprising, inter alia: batch of the replicator, pressed for faster treatment. The majority wanted this case to be dealt with, so that we could carry out a barrage inspection in the autumn of 1998 and the case could be decided in the Stortinget in 1998. It defys the Government from making the investigations that the Government had wanted, and that the Central Party had wanted the Government to do. The image is that in the final phase of this case there has been a very pressure to get it decided. It's a shame, I think, because there's going to be some unresolved questions here. Cutting through in such a controversial case, with unresolved questions, is an unfortunate form of proceedings, whether you have that or that point of view. Both the case and the interested parties deserve a thorough review of all issues that have been raised. That one locks, closes and adds side questions that lie there untreated, if it becomes like the majority will here today, will be a problem that one will face on various occasions in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e663	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e666	Let me first make it clear to the representative: there are individuals in SV who are NATO-friendly, not the party. So to the matter itself. Scissors Røssorde have clarified that SV has had a clear hold all the way, and we still stand on it. We primarily wanted the Energy and Environment Committee to deal with this matter, not the Defence Committee. SV has two proposals in today's debate on the greatest natural interference of times. The one proposal is simple: 'The region of the East is not established'. The second is a release proposal based on what Prime Minister Bondevik said in his NATO statement last Thursday, i.e. the need to discuss our entire defence concept, in order to get a defence for the future. Then, in the Swedish Prime Minister, we take the floor. The order is completely wrong if we establish a field of fire and destroy nature and there will be a field of fire that future defenses do not need! So the logical thing is to wait. – I'll bring this up with our two suggestions. First a little bit about the working party's way of acting in this nature conservation case. Jagland now travels land and beach around and explains that Hagen and Petersen have too much power in Norway – most recently in Eastfold during the weekend. Now the center has to choose between us and Hagen, is Jagland's melody. Yes, I thought – and I came to IT Fornebu, and then I thought about energy, environmental and defence issues, which I work with the most. Is it Jagland and Hagen who stand against each other? What time? In fact, Jagland and Hagen are usually friends when it comes to environmental issues. They have been too high a rate of oil extraction, they are mixed up in gas-fired cases, and in the 1999 budgetary procedure the difference was very small in environmental, energy and defence matters. And what do we see today? The so-called archenemies are human beings! Iland and Hagen are in debt to local democracy and to everything that can crawl and go when it comes to environmental mobility, cultural memory protection and outdoor interests. Organisations with 600 000 members, local municipal government and grassroots movements see who has chosen Hagen as their partner. It's not the center government that has to choose in this case, Jagland! It is the plurality of the Labour Party that has the choice – and so far it has become Hagen. But today, the Labour Party can increase its trustworthiness by choosing SV as partners. The choice is yours, Jagland! And to use your own rhetoric, the Labour Party has to choose between us and the Progress Party. It should be easy, if the Progress Party is the main opponent. If the Labour Party today chooses to be in the same booth as the Right Party, the trust value of the Workers' Party's pronounced enemy images will be zero. It is in spite of all the practical policy, as it will be expressed in the vote here today, as a tel. For the representatives of the Labour Party, I would therefore like to quote from a letter from the Energy and Environment Committee received from a young girl from Reinsvoll, Heidi Tokerud: ‘You all have the power to make a difference to each of you who give the casting voice.’ Furthermore, ‘A shooting field in Hedmark will destroy incredibly much for a very long time in the future.’ Heidi Tokerud, a representative of future generations, ends by saying, ‘Be so kind, think about the future, instead of short-term and short-term solutions.’ The individual employee party representative must listen to Heidi Tokerud: Your vote will be decisive. You can stop the greatest natural intervention of all time. The Prime Minister, in his NATO statement last Thursday, said the following: ‘The Government’s view is that there is a need for a review of defence policy with a focus on defence tasks and level of ambition.’ He also said: ‘The aim will be to ensure that defence can meet security policy challenges as they emerge now and in the years to come.’ SV therefore takes the Prime Minister on the floor and proposes today to wait to establish the firing range until we know what kind of defense we want. We don't need to establish a field of fire that we don't need in the next round. Therefore, we must agree on the defence concept first, and then we must agree on the kind of practice that the new defence concept needs. It will be to do things in the right order. It may seem that the multiple of these causes the loss of nature and billions of dollars will be spent on something that may be a thing of the past. The shooting field plans came on the agenda during the Cold War, 38 years ago in fact, during the Vietnam War. The cold war is over. It doesn't seem like everyone here has taken it over. What we need now is a defense concept that has not expired. Then we must not begin by preparing ourselves for the previous war by establishing this field of fire. SV's recommendation is logical and rational: please wait with the shooting field until the government decides what form of defence Norway should take. The SV proposed that the Energy and Environment Committee should have the primary responsibility for the greatest natural interference of this time. It wasn't like that. So now we have an attitude where the defense of its claimed needs overshadows all other societal needs and assessments. Nature protection, cultural memory protection and the environment come to an end. A confirmation that the defence is going above all is the reality that the Energy and Environment Committee, which is responsible for the protection of nature, the environment and culture, spent two days dealing with this greatest natural intervention in time. There's something about the rough way in which the majority of the Workers' Party and the Right Party are involved in this, and how little natural and environmental issues mean for these parties. We're not going to forget it. SV believes that the field of fire is in conflict with the Convention on Biological Diversity and the Berne Convention on the Protection of Wild Species and their habitat. In the field of shooting, 127 avian species and 30 mammals, including the four large predators, are present. 25 of the species are on the national red list of endangered and vulnerable species, and many species are particularly vulnerable to noise and pollution. The field of fires affects landscape qualities where natural and wild areas alternate with well-kept cultural landscapes and will destroy them. One think there's 3,500-8 000 automatically saved cultural memory that will be released and then built down and razed. The shooting area is very well suited to traditional outdoor activities and is very suitable for recreation and tourism. So there's an entire arsenal of arguments against establishing the shooting range. And then there is a possibility of Nordic cooperation in the matter, and Nordic cooperation is a priority area, said all the parties in the long-term message. So we're talking about Älvdalen, a field of fire 14 miles from Elverum, and as an environmental movement in Sweden, we want to use it instead of destroying more nature. I'm sorry that the majority doesn't take this option seriously. If the Workers' Party and the Right Party decide to establish shooting areas today, a long-term blow will start against the population of the area, and national nature protection and open-air organisations will fight against this. Furthermore, all attempts at intervention will be met by demonstrations. Actionists of all ages will actively try to prevent establishment. The cause will be a major political burden on the Labour Party and the Right Party, and large public funds will have to be involved in getting equipment into the area as a whole if the greatest natural interference of these times is to be carried out. It's enough to remember the Alta expansion and what Gro said about it afterwards. Please think about the future, don't build the shooting field, write Heidi Tokerud, a representative of the future generations, to us here at Stortinget. SV's advice to Stortinget is: Listen to the young girl – say no to the shooting field.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e702	The representative Hallgeir H. Langeland has taken up the suggestions he referred to. No one has asked for the word in reply.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e707	The central government promised a more offensive environmental policy when it took over. That promise has been made by the Government. With regard to the development of the Upper Otta, the construction of highly polluting gas power stations and the establishment of a new region area in the East, the importance of the environment has been given to consideration once the Government has taken its position. In the case we are dealing with today, it is sad to say that the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Labour Party together provide a majority for an intervention that causes the environment to lose in one of the most important environmental issues that Stortinget has had to deal with. The fact that it is the Progress Party and the Workers' Party that together provide a majority for the Gråfjell option will be noticed by people interested in environmental issues. When the Government in a case is joined by the Advance Party, the Workers' Party describes it as a questionable choice of value, even in the case of marginal issues. On the other hand, when the Workers' Party and the Advance Party bring together a majority in important matters of value, it is a capacity to enter into practical political cooperation. In the decision we're going to make today, the Storting is divided in the middle. It is related to the fact that over half of the Workers' Party's group share the Government's opinion and move towards a new shooting field. A shared bulking means that this major natural intervention is very badly anchored. Moreover, when you know that the local resistance to the Eastern region is very high and brings people from all camps together, it is incomprehensible that you cannot take the time to explore other alternatives to solve the defence's need for realistic exercises. Today, the defense disposes of a total of 1 400 km2 for the field of fire and drill. Alternative ways of using these areas are likely to exist. We also know that the defense has spent 27 million dollars. kr to investigate three new launch fields, but already initially refused to investigate the so-called 0 option or the 0+ option. A comprehensive investigation of alternatives should be a matter of course. The Left regrets that the majority is accelerating a case that should be subject to further investigation of alternatives that could have a less negative impact on the environment and society. The three localisation options are all highly valuable in nature and culture. The investigation shows that the grey mountain has the highest natural value and the highest cultural value. This presents us with an impossible choice. The left will vote in favour of the Government's proposal and against both localisations. According to the professional investigator for the Hilde Roland shooting field, there are a total of about 6,000 peaced cultural memories only in the Gråfjellet. We have not sufficiently taken on board that knowledge of historical business and everyday life is being lost. In addition, when we recognise the great value of the area as a wilderness, the phrase ‘political waste with Norwegian nature and culture’ easily falls into the mouth. The matter we are dealing with today came from the Defence Committee to the Energy and Environment Committee for consideration. The majority ensured that the Energy and Environment Committee round was an obligation cycle, yes, a purely formality. Of course, I am aware that the various parties have had the case for group treatment, and that environmental issues have been highlighted in this regard. But it should not mean that the Committee failed to defuse the area in question, such as: The left entered for. The Committee should also be given better time to raise important environmental issues. It is regrettable that this matter has been dealt with by the Committee on Energy and the Environment, which can help to weaken the authority of this Committee. The Committee should have ambitions to play an independent role and not just be an obvious turnaround. In this case, the government has made a value choice. It says yes to make environmental considerations crucial. That means the defense can't get what they think is the optimal solution. But the defense must get a good and proper solution. It facilitates the Government's arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e726	No one has asked for the word in reply.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e729	St.meld. No 11 is a coherent argument for the need to establish a new field of fire in the East to respond to the needs of the defence, based both on the construction of the defence in South Norway and on the need to participate in international operations. But the government has not taken responsibility for concluding. The government chooses to misrepresent its responsibilities by proposing an investigation of a so-called 0 option. The message states that the defence has clearly rejected this option. An extension of the Hierkin, which the Government will have investigated, will raise uncertainty about the preservation of fundamental nature protection interests in Dovreberg and neighbouring areas and jeopardise the new national park land plan. In addition, the extended 0 option will increase the noise load at existing shooting areas, in particular at the Terningmoen in Elverum. I have great respect for those who oppose a new field of fire for nature protection reasons. However, it is difficult to see that the grey mountain range is completely unacceptable, while it must be environmentally sound to put the new national park land plan at risk by expanding the Dovreberg area, and also by increasing the exercise activity in the Elverum area. There has been broad agreement on the conversion of the Defense into a smaller army, and that this should be compensated by increasing the fighting capabilities of the remaining departments. Therefore, new material and weapon systems have been purchased. For this to have any purpose, the high skills of both the individual soldier and the individual department are required. Enhanced requirements for the coordinated use of systems of different weapons species are also required. It is therefore necessary to train a significant proportion of those responsible for protection as specialists in their fields. This is consistent with what is happening in the other NATO countries as well. It's not enough to give large sums of money to new, modern material for the Defense. Yes, investments would be pointless if we didn't make sure that the weapons could be operated in the best way. I must admit that the Workers' Party was long in doubt if we should accept the government's critical behaviour. One could be tempted to send the whole matter back to the Government with notice that the man stood up to take the consequence of what the government parties have also participated in in in terms of de-employment in the Defence and the purchase of new, modern material. However, the Workers' Party found that the decision-making refusal in the Government should not lead to a decision-making refusal in the Stortinget. That is why we have taken our responsibility. The working party must be at the forefront of the changes we have been facing. We were constantly aware that this would require better practice. The need for a regional field was confirmed and deepened by the Stortinget treatment of St.meld. No 22 for 1997-98. A joint defense committee struck in Innst. S. No 150 for 1992-93 solid ‘the importance of each military department having access to a fixed field of fire and drill, related to the permanent establishments of standing forces and school departments, and to the repetition centres of the mobilization units.’;» The Labour Party stands by this wording, and we are following up here today through what we are doing, with a new region area in the East. Someone says, "Why are we going to keep betting on the defense, we're not waiting for any attack." No, but if that's the way of thinking, all countries can put down their defenses. Europe is doing the opposite. We maintain defence and extend NATO to new countries. A new military void shall not be created in Europe. In addition, what we are now facing is not a massive invasion from the east, but ethnic and regional conflicts, terror and proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. This must be met with new instruments. If our soldiers are to be able to participate in future international operations, they must be trained for it. Let's hope we let go. The chance is greater if NATO shows the ability to intervene. Norway can't fool itself away from here, we have to be involved in the efforts of all the other NATO countries. It's always been hard to take responsibility for the defense. We all want the money for something else. But someone has to take that responsibility. The Labour Party will contribute to this today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e756	When the case of the establishment of the Eastern Region region is finally closed here in Stortinget today, and the region field will end in Gråfjellet in Åvåt kommune, it will hopefully conclude a largely unsubstantiated debate, especially in the media, built on historylessness and vision without regard to reality. The background for the project is the ongoing transition to a new defence structure in the context of military developments that have taken place over a number of years. The aim is to facilitate the external training of our forces in accordance with the requirements of today and in the foreseeable future. Among these, essential elements will be training to operate new, advanced material and master demanding operations in cooperation between different weapons species, cf. Here are our forces to participate in peace-building and peace-keeping operations. In such assignments, war is actually taking place – and who will then take responsibility for sending Norwegian youth out in such operations without a sufficient training basis? The suspension addressed here today also provides a detailed account of the defence needs and justification of the project, the relief effect achieved by existing shooting and practice fields, impact investigations and hearings, and possible remedial action in relation to civil interests. A broad description of the administrative and economic consequences that the project is expected to have and the main features of an implementation process have been outlined. The Defence Committee has also, through its more than 30 hearings, ranging from housework to state councils, focused on a deep and thorough assessment of the implications of the project’s establishment in terms of nature, the environment and society. The matter has thus been dealt with as thoroughly as possible. Today, more static forms of combat are being shifted away from a more mobile concept of operation with constant friction. Exploitation of the terrain is a condition and provides increased protection for both personnel and material and contributes to increased fighting ability. The grey mountain has such a terrain and will give the strength a realistic exercise concept. Brain, which is used today, and which is to be returned to the unique natural area it really is, is an open and too small mountain plateau that, after today's concept, is useless as a training and shooting ground. Noise is, of course, something that needs to be carefully assessed in this context. In the proposed area of the grey mountain, there is one fixed settlement, one seater in operation, another three to four uses without operation and a number of cabins and forest houses. In this context, it has to be taken into account that the establishment of the regional area will result in a reduction in the use of the Teringmoen shooting range, and people who are «very disturbed» by shooting will be reduced from 700 to 200 persons in the Elverum area. In a 0 situation, however, a noisy activity at the Terningmoen could increase in the coming years, and the number of people ‘very disturbed’ could increase in Elverum from 700 to more than 1000 people. The region area is divided into three zones. The red zone will be heavily loaded and will be 100-130 km2. Forest and land damage will be primarily a problem in the concentrated target area, which will amount to approximately 50 % of total damage. 20-30 km2 in central parts of the red zone. Forestry and hunting will be possible with certain adaptations in most of the zone. In a yellow and green zone, permanent intervention will be less extensive. The conclusion is then: the whole area, with certain restrictions within short time intervals, could be used as today. The field will not be used during holiday and hunting. Therefore, the unfurnished production of 240 km2 will be destroyed is wrong. The implementation of the project is therefore of overriding national interest, with a major impact on our preparedness and defence capabilities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e776	I regret that this matter is being dealt with as an urgent matter, in relation to the many uncertainties that affect it. During treatment of St.meld. No 22 for 1997-98, the majority of the Committee, with the exception of the members of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party, put a great deal of pressure on the Government to deal with the case of the establishment of the Eastern Region during the autumn of 1998. On the other hand, the members of the Christian People’s Party and the Central Party felt that consideration of the complexity of the matter made it necessary for it to be dealt with more thoroughly. The scarce time that the Committee on Energy and the Environment was given to deal with the matter reinforces the impression that the matter is being dealt with as an urgent matter. One could get the impression that some of the decision-making bases were about to go out on date. The Government assumes that national security is currently being ensured at an acceptable level and that the interventions that will result from the establishment of a region field will be too costly for the overall environmental interests of the nation. The Christian People's Party is of the opinion that the nature of the action is such a major and permanent negative impact on nature, the environment and society that the defence must be referred to other solutions, although they do not fully satisfy the needs of the defence. Centrally, the creation of new noise images in otherwise naturally quiet landscapes will be perceived as a frenzy of essential conditions for this otherwise unique recreational environment. This is for me the most weighty argument in this case. During the treatment of St.meld. No 22 expressed its agreement that the defence was an integral part of the overall social development. Furthermore, an overall committee stated: ‘The general framework conditions of society also have an impact on the activities and development of defence, while at the same time ensuring a good and close interaction between defence and civil society.’ Reactions to this case from the population of the municipalities concerned suggest that the defence has a good deal left before reaching such a goal. There must be a signal of great importance for the assessment of a future interaction between the defence and the civilian population when many of the defence's own friends locally speak against the establishment of the regional field. We live in a world exposed to major changes over a short period of time. This also includes changes in the threat picture directed at Norway. In view of the fact that the establishment of a new regional area cannot be put into service for at least five years, it is important that it reflects a substantial part of the needs at that time. It is likely that in the years ahead, a greater part of the defence's tasks will be increased participation in international peace operations under the auspices of NATO and, to a lesser extent, emphasising an invasion defence. It will be important to see Norwegian defence in the context of the development of NATO military cooperation. This restores the need for this matter to be dealt with as quickly as possible in a strange light. NATO Summit in Washington could give some useful signals in this way. What is the environmental argument of the majority? A planned return time of up to 30 years for the Hierkin shooting range? Throughout this time, the defense will be active in this area to secure future users from blinders. It's obvious that this isn't going to be a recreational area for most people in a long time. Promoting this as an argument for caring for environmental interests in relation to sequestrating 240 km2 by nature in the Østerdalen region is, at best, to be perceived as being progeny. It's no more interesting to protect areas like the Brain than to protect the areas around the Gravel Mountains or the Grey Mountains. The three places are all unique parts of our country. Nature cannot be replaced. I'm not so worried about the animals in a new region field. They have the freedom to move elsewhere, if they feel for it. The new hier is going to build the bear every year anyway. Much worse for the people in the area, who have invested in a long life in the pact with the nature they love. We still want silence and peace over the Grave Mountain and the Grey Mountain.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e796	I have never read a big message before where the conclusion stands in such sharp contrast to the other message. In view of the consistent argument and the need for a field of shooting and training in the East, I would like to characterise the Government's conclusion in the message as a rearward salto with full screw. The Committee on Energy and the Environment has had the preliminary opinion of the Defence Committee. Some members were of the opinion that the Environment Committee should have had occasion to examine independently the environmental consequences of the establishment of a region area in the East. A number of questions were sent to the Ministry of Defence, and the answers from the Ministry are attached to the referral. It will not be possible to go through these answers in brief, including questions about the Berne Convention, the Finnish minority in Norway, the impact on the tourism industry in Trysil and Trysilberget, the impact on cultural memories, noise pollution, pollution, etc. I just want to recommend Stortinget to read the answers. In particular, it is not possible to get the views that form the basis for the majority comments in the vote, as I see it. It is important for the Workers' Party to stress that this has been a difficult matter, which has been thoroughly dealt with by the Defence Committee through consultations, seminars and a number of opinions, in addition to the communication itself. And as Bjørn Tore Godal said in his post: the final decision is also not made with a very light heart. The members of the Energy and Environment Committee agree with the comments of their respective parties. The majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Progressive Party and the Right, support the proposal for the establishment of the Eastern Region. The members of the Workers' Party, the Right and the Advance Party point out that the establishment of the Regionfeld Eastland could provide a significant increase in natural benefits and entirely new perspectives for the protection and overall management of Dovreberg. Dovreberg, including the Hierkin Shooting Field, is a valuable ecosystem that, among other things, includes: are the habitats of several vulnerable animal species. The shooting area occupies areas that are attractive to open-air life. As is well known, major national and international interests are linked to the management of the Dovrefjell area as one of Europe’s most recent reference areas for the original high mountain ecosystem. The brain here represents a nucleus. I respect the fact that other parties have assessed this matter differently, but it must certainly have caused surprise in the natural and environmental circles that the government could actually imagine an extension of the Brain Shooting Field. The closure of the Hierkin shooting range and its inclusion in the extended Dovrejelle protection plan will significantly extend the protection areas and ensure a comprehensive and coherent management of the Dovrejelle and neighbouring areas through the Sunndal National Park. Undoubtedly, it will be a very demanding task to re-establish landscapes and the natural environment on the Hierkin. It is a prerequisite on the part of the majority that adequate means are provided for both restocking and restocking of the area so that the area can be restored as close as possible to its original state and according to the protection requirements of a protected area. Finally, it is from several speakers, among others. from the Left, raised criticism of the procedure of the Committee on Energy and the Environment. I assume that although the Left has not been represented in the Defence Committee, the Left Government Party has had a great opportunity to influence this matter in the proceedings in the Defence Committee. I would also like to believe that it could be possible to have conversations with my party colleagues from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. Finally, it is a serious exaggeration to claim that this matter has been dealt with as an urgent matter. The case has actually been in Stortinget since the fall of 1998. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e828	The rationale for the Eastern Region lies in the main lines of defence activity and development, to which the Grand Duchy has joined. The requirement for effective training of soldiers and the command of knowledge and skills, the ability to make rapid decisions and to master the interaction between departments and weapons species make this necessary. The overall objective is to be able to respond to crisis situations in the world’s most dangerous occupation as fully trained as possible. According to the leader of the camp, Rena clay and Rødsmoen are the world's best training institution for soldiers. With the Eastern Field in place, we will have the same opportunities to congregate several battalions from all the arms in the Army. It is to me an almost unreal cross of thought how representatives of the Storting cannot defend supporting such an establishment, when they seem at the next moment to be prepared to send Norwegian soldiers, for example. for ground operations in other countries. The field of fire has been the subject of extensive consultations. Everyone has, of course, been given the opportunity to comment. Nevertheless, demonstrations are made against the field of fire from the different environments. But I suspect that in the case of the youth who protests, it is the youth who personally finds it difficult to participate in the defense of the country, who stands for the demonstrations. Perhaps they should consider paying close attention to their superior status — not raising themselves to judges about the needs of the youth who will defend their country, as has always been required. Shooting and practice fields are imperative in an imperfect world. That is why I am pleased that the proposal of the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party is being adopted today. Therefore, although it represents a very significant natural intervention, the Right, also in the home state of the exercise field, is prepared to take this load. ‘Why does the majority choose the most destructive and conflict-filled option?’ asks the Nation in a commentary place on 19 February 1999. The question should be answered both by the government parties and by the Labour Party and the Progress Party. In addition to being the most destructive and conflictful option, the majority of the choice of Grey Mountain is the largest intervention in private property rights, in an area that belongs to the country's most profitable, most well-run and best-run forestry. That this does not concern the Workers' Party, no one amazes. The fact that the Progress Party is involved, we have to take note of that. The fact that the government parties don't lift a finger to prevent it is a cross of thought. The majority promise the landowners full compensation under the Basic Law § 105, but the landowners do not ask for money. They ask for the right to operate with what they can, and with which they have grown up through generations. They are asking for the right to conduct a profitable forestry, both private and national. In the setting, repeat from the staging message: ‘In the certainty that much of the makeshift potential has been used up through the process of setting up Rena clay and Rødsmoen exercise area, a makeshift in Åv against the municipality will be very difficult to implement. [[alternative Grey Mountain and partial alternative Holm Lake]] ... For options Digberget, the possibilities for a make change will be significantly better.» We have not been given the opportunity to clarify – in the reply I had with the case rapporteur – how the majority of people believe that they should be able to make changes to these premises, without a fundamental change in the concession law in terms of housing and driving. I am asking for an answer to that question. The defence also acknowledges that a change of model is a clear anti-conflict measure. Nevertheless, the majority chooses the option that gives the most conflict, not the option that gives the least conflict, and how much indicates that the majority of the population wants to welcome the field of shooting and practice. When the Defense itself also says that the Graveberg is "at the best possible opportunity for varied patterns of practice in major cooperative exercises", and when we know that just such patterns of practice are the main purpose of the exercise field, it is not easy to understand that the majority chooses the most conflict, the most natural stress and the most interference in private property rights. So far in the debate it has also, among other things. by the representative of Gunnar Halvorsen, a point has been made that the Right does not fully follow the position of the Chief of Defence until the last sentence. It's a strange problem. Firstly, as the representative of Mr Godal pointed out, there are practically two equivalent alternatives here which the defence can very well live with both. In addition to this, the Right actually has a tradition of thinking for themselves, even in defence issues. The most obvious example is to refer to the broad treatment of the role of Home Protection, where the iron alliance between the Workers' Party and the head of defence tried to impose on Home Protection an organisation that did not serve either the Home Protection or, in the opinion of the majority, the overall interests of the Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e857	Today's case is difficult, but it is part of Stortinget's work to make decisions in difficult cases. We have to endure difficult balances and make final decisions. We have to weigh each other and come up with only one result. In this case, the impression is that there is no need for a field of practice and shooting. Someone has said it outright, others are almost accusing the defense that they want this field for their own sake. I think that's completely unfair. The defence is not for its own sake, but for our own sake – the inhabitants of Norway. And sometimes they also protect the citizens of other countries. In this country, we are lucky and have peace today. We are also so lucky that the future looks bright. No imminent threat to peace threatens our nation in the same way as before. I'm sure we're all happy about that. But for that reason, we cannot fail to have an up-to-date defense and believe that peace will always come to us. Europe is no longer a peaceful haven in the world. Cruel acts of war have been taking place in Bosnia for several years, and now the civilian population is suffering every day in Kosovo. We have a hard time understanding what they're going through. But at least we have so much humanity left that we want to help them. As a nation, we haven't yet gotten there that we're just ourselves enough, fortunately. As NATO members, we have long been part of peacekeeping forces in other countries. Now we are in peacekeeping and peace-building forces, and we will continue to be in the name of humanity. But then our soldiers have to have enough training, so they can do the jobs they're assigned to, right. Simulators are good at first, but when reality is life or death, they should be tricked into right behavior when it really applies. In all situations of civil life where it says about life or death, as in the case of fire, accidents and natural disasters, we are concerned that training constitutes the big difference in whether you succeed in doing the right things at the right time. Training and re-training and maintenance of trained skills are recognised civil life approaches in the field of preparedness. In war or war-like situations, this is even more important. Why can't you see that this is important even when our soldiers are going to be out there and maintain peace in other countries? We want our girls and boys to show solidarity and to be in peacekeeping and peace-building forces, but we also want them home to Norway with their lives. We want them to know, under fire or other difficult conditions, that they have been trained, that they can master the situation and interact with their colleagues from other countries, so that they can keep calm and their mental health despite the situation. In doing so, we can get them home with the physical and mental health in good condition, as good, healthy jobseekers even after such a stay abroad. This is the background for me to believe that there is a need for a field of shooting and training also in the East. And to me, it's these needs that have weighed most heavily, when I were to weigh the disadvantages and the benefits to each other. I'm not blind. I see that some nature will be lost. I see that there are disadvantages for someone. But I have come to the conclusion that although it is a high price, I am willing to pay that price.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e872	Most shooting and drill fields in South Norway come largely from before 1905 or from the 1940s. It has been recognised for a long time in the defence that the recent decades of weapon development and practice patterns have run from the infrastructure that the defence has had at its disposal in order to pool several departments in order to achieve the necessary capability for simultaneous movement and firing. Operational concepts are roughly in line with the mechanisation and development of weapons, from more static forms of combat to a mobile concept of operation with constant conflict. The security regulations have prevented such exercises, justified by the fact that our personnel should not be harmed or injured. Already at the time of treatment of St.prp. No 86 for 1979-80 therefore acknowledged the need for a new type of large field of fire and drill in the three main regions of Defence, North Norway, Middle Norway and the East, of which the name «region field». When moving the Cavalry from Trandum to Rena, the centre of gravity of the Armed Forces establishment was shifted northwards, and this opened for investigations of possible areas for a region field in Hedmark. At the beginning of the 1990s, the impact assessment of three possible options was launched, one of which soon proved to be of little value and was taken out of the impact study. Around the same time, Norway and Sweden agreed to abolish the demilitarised zone along the border from 1905, and this opened up for the investigation of a new alternative south of the county. The following options have been completed according to the rules of the Planning and Building Act: Option 1 The Gravelberg in Åsnes, Våler and Elverum municipalities, option 2 The Holm Lake in Trysil, Elverum and Åmot municipalities, and option 3 The Gråfjellet in Åmot municipality. All three of these options satisfy the defence requirements. The Gravberget and Gravberget options are considered equally appropriate for the Defence, while the Holm Lake option is considered to be the least appropriate alternative. In addition to these three relevant options, the impact assessment also includes the current situation of the defence, the so-called 0 option. The defence investigation has highlighted the possibilities for collaboration with Rena clay and Rødsmoen practice fields, and given the option Gråffjellet first priority. The government has kept Stortinget informed about the start and implementation of this impact assessment in the Defence's previous long-term message, St.meld. No 16 for 1992-93, General guidelines for the activities and development of the defence in the period 1994-98, and underlined the need for a regional area of defence in the last long-term communication, St.meld. No 22 for 1997-98, Main lines of defence activity and development in the period 1999-2002. Thanks to the very extensive impact assessment carried out, the Government has had the opportunity to make a very thorough assessment of the impact of the possible establishment of a region field following the proposed alternatives. The government has placed great emphasis on the national obligation to ensure the defence departments' training opportunities that are consistent with our defence policy objectives and the defence technology reality. Similarly, the Government has stressed that it is a national obligation to ensure the nature and environment of succeeding generations. In this assessment of two important social interests at national level, the Government has chosen to give priority to responsibility for nature and the environment, while meeting the needs of the Defence Agency for more extensive use of existing shooting and practice fields, if necessary with additions and extensions, the so-called 0+ option. The Eastern Region has been a very difficult issue for the Government, where the defence needs have been weighed against the overall environmental interests of the country. St.meld. No 11 for 1998-99 expresses the Government's choice in the matter, where the optimal needs of the defence would have too great an impact on nature, the environment and society. The notification is clear, and the Government is of the opinion that the Regionfelt Eastland should not be established. The main reason given by the government is that it considers that the needs of the defence can still be met in an acceptable way, even without a region of the East. I take note that the majority of the Storing seems to want to give a different priority than the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e903	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e906	I would like to take the opportunity to welcome the new Minister of Defense to the Stortinget, and to say ‘flying start’ – even if this is the national defence. I'm somewhat surprised that a government council from the old crowned environmental party said, not to blink, opens up an extended use of Hierkin, with the problems it will bring about with regard to the big visions of a coherent national park area that includes Dovrefjell, Rondane and Sunndalsfjella National Park. I understand that there is a balance that may be the basis for setting that perspective aside, but I repeat that I find it somewhat alarming. My real response is to the fact that the majority of the Committee says that it considers it absolutely necessary to increase the Government's framework for remedial action, so that we can get as far as possible to limit the disadvantages of the Eastern Region. It goes without saying that a powerful programme based on review, on multi-use plans, on environmental protection and agricultural assessments in close cooperation with the municipalities concerned – here, probably against the municipality – Hedmark County Municipality and the County Environmental Protection Department are alpha and omega to make progress in the development of the region area that minimises the adverse effects. I would like to ask the Council of State, even if she has not been sitting in the chair for a long time, whether she has noticed this and is prepared to follow up this comment, so that in consultation with the local authorities, one can also contribute to an expanded framework, which I am sure will prove necessary in the interests of the very central, local interests which will of course be targeted both by the local authorities and others in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e917	Of course, I perceive my role here so that once the Storting has made its decision, no matter what it may be, it is the department's responsibility to follow up the decisions made. If the decision taken includes remedial measures, as the representative Godal said now, it is clear that we must also take it with us and run the race that lies in Storting’s decision in relation to municipal authorities. Although I am new as Minister of Defence, I have, after all, been in this room for some time, and I have absolutely great respect for the decisions that the Stortinge makes, and I will, of course, follow it up in the new role as well.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e924	Of course, it is not an easy task to participate in a staff race, as the Minister of Defense has now done, and to take over a staff stick that – I was saying – many have lost during the exchange and on their way to the exchange. Then it's easy to get disked. I have heard what the Council of State has now said, and I perceive the response of the Council of State to the previous representative so that we should follow up here the comments that the majority have put in the vote, if we have a decision in line with the position of the Stortinget. In this, there is also something about the pace and progress and the consideration of the people involved, and I take it for granted that the Council of State is standing by what she said. Having said that, I would say that I expected the Council of State, when she made such a statement as she did, to have followed up the message with a coherent argument for the importance of providing our soldiers with the best possible education. But then you ended up in the same ditch that the former Minister of Defense had kind of gone up, and then you stay there. So you say yes, we want it so much, but we can't do it because we have to downgrade education. Then my question is: do you have any faith that the 0+ option can be realised and at the same time satisfy the defence needs? And the last question is: does the Council of State feel it satisfactory to train soldiers for national and international operations that do not get the training basis that the Defense itself believes they should have in order to be put into serious situations?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e935	I have recorded in the debate that St.meld. No 11 is called a freak. Now it's the way parents defend their children anyway, and it doesn't at least make a new mother. Although we have changed the state council, we have not changed the government. I stand for the assessment that has been made and the conclusions drawn in St.meld. No 11 by the Government. It is not appropriate to present it in such a way that the Government, when it has chosen between values and lands on the environmental value option, is not concerned with finding the best possible means of defence. But we don't see that by choosing some of the options that the defense itself has been involved in investigating, we find the most optimal option. However, in the government’s assessments and conclusions, there is a desire to achieve the closest possible goal of facilitating better and more realistic exercises than those that can be carried out in today’s situation. The government asked to clarify this. It comes, as I see it today, not to be accepted. But in what we would then put forward, we would, of course, have made the thorough assessments that would have been our response to meet the needs of the defense, that is, other than those that have been investigated in this message.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e943	It seems to me to be an undertone in the last answer to the Council of State that when the big crowd today sees the cabinet in place also in this matter, it is to all the parties involved a great deal of ease that we can now move on. The Council of State is not responsible for the past in this matter. Although she has been in the government, she does not have a direct responsibility at all. But it is responsible for the implementation of what is to be done hereafter. I might want to focus on the fact that a community that gets this field will suffer great disadvantages, and that it is important to minimize the disadvantages. This is where the replacements are at their core. It's a very desirable thing for them to have to get compensation in the form of a make change. If it turns out to be the Grey Mountain, which seems to be the opposite, it already has our make change there in connection with the Red Snow, so that the possibilities aren't as good as they were. I would like to encourage the Council of State to put full emphasis on the fact that also public-fired forests – the state forests, the Information Society's fund, etc. – is fully used in such a context, and that it also does what is necessary to ensure that those who are replaced in the form of a make change in another municipality do not lose it at the next generation change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e952	I refer to my first response, and I promise to follow up on what is to be followed up after the decision has been taken. I also took note of the recommendations made by the representative of Godal on this point. I do not have the opportunity to answer yes or no to that question today, but of course I take it with me in the further implementation of the Stortinge's decision.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e957	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e960	Any choice and any decision has consequences, as the Council of State runs perfectly correctly pointed out. We are well aware that the choice made by the Workers' Party and the position we are presenting today will have environmental consequences for the area proposed. But I have to say that for those who choose the easiest way out of this by saying that we will continue to investigate and base the future business of the defense on an extended use of the brain, that choice has at least two consequences. Firstly, it has an environmental impact that is quite enormous, because then we stop the possibility of further working on the Dovre protection plans. Secondly, it follows that the defence does not have satisfactory training opportunities for the future, in line with the guidelines that the Storting has actually agreed to. If someone tries to pretend an extended 0 option gives the Defense the necessary training and practice capability, it's wrong. The defense has quite emphatically stated that in relation to the battle environments that we can face in the future, using the high mountain will provide too poor a basis for developing the competences needed to enable the defence in the future to be able to handle different situations both at home and outside. I therefore react to trying to make this into just the election of the Labour Party and the majority here that is, in itself, a choice that will have consequences for the environment. In my view, the choices made by the government parties will have at least the same environmental consequences, as well as major consequences for the future defence. I've been trying to count up. I think there are six vital decisions taken in this Chamber, which really lead to this debate that we have today, six principal decisions taken within the framework that the Storting has given its principal support to the fact that we need a region field for the Eastern region. The first round we went was when we dealt with the main lines of defence activity in the period 1994-98, where we laid the structure of the future country defence, and where we pointed to the challenges that the defense was going to face. I would like to remind Prime Minister Bondevik that the statement he made here in Stortingen a few days ago is nothing new, there are no new issues he is drawing up. All the issues were raised in both of the two long-term messages we have addressed since 1993. This meant a significant reduction in the case of the Army and a significant degree of motorisation in order to be able to increase the mobility of the Defence. That decision made by Stortinget in the certainty that we should be able to use these resources, we need to have appropriate shooting and exercise areas. But it's easy to make basic decisions when you don't have to make the concrete choices. It is only the Labour Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party that have the courage to stand up and take the consequences of their decisions today. The next thing Stortinget decided that has consequences for this case is the expansion of Gardermoen as a new main airport. Then it was decided that, as a consequence, the cavalry should be moved to Rena, and everyone had to know that we had the centres of expertise for the cavalry, the infantry and the artillery in a central part of Hedmark, and it would be quite unimaginable that the area of the region should actually be located somewhere other than near the centres of expertise that would exploit it. No explicit decisions were made, but it is quite obvious that this was in the cards. The third decision that was taken concerned the organisation of the Army, with the emphasis on the inner Troms and the inner eastern region, where we decided that the centres of competence should be located in the eastern part of the country, and the training of soldiers should take place in North Norway. The development of officers' skills is, of course, the most important thing. It's the officers who are to be responsible for leading our soldiers in conflict if we unfortunately get in such a situation that we experience it. And these officers must have a realistic education, an education that, as correctly said, and as the Council of State Løwer also said, means being able to corroborate different units of defence in a common manoeuvre. The fourth principle decision we have taken on our own is that the structure of the internal eastern region should be at the heart of the brigade responsible for the defence of key infrastructure elements in Eastern Norway, plus that it should be at the heart of the competence we are to develop for international missions. The size has decided to set up a centre of excellence for international activities. It's in the East, there's no other place. The fifth resolution we made is linked to the process back to 1978-79, when we agreed in principle that these shooting and practice areas were necessary for the future elections. In relation to this, the region area of North Norway was actually dimensioned according to that we should have at least two. If we had said we shouldn't have anything in the East, we should have a much larger exercise area in North Norway. Then we should have taken the consequences and moved the centres of expertise northwards, so that they were the real core of the defence business in Norway. Then the investments we made at Rena would be completely meaningless. It would be quite unthinkable that the Storting should go into that decision, but that is really the consequence of that minority inviting us to make a decision today. It's actually also what the Government invites us to, but also the Government and former and current defence ministers must be aware that the Hierkin will not be usable within the manoeuvring concepts and the exercise requirements of a modern defense. The last point is the continuous debate that has been in this great process of winding up the Hierkin as a shooting and exercise area. I dare to draw the attention of the members of the Centre Party in this Chamber to the fact that the Centre Party has been the party that has been most active in order to terminate the Brain as a shooting and exercise area. Every time there has been a question that the Stortinget and the Ministry of Defence should grant permission for long-range shooting at Hjerkinn, there has been a ramask rich in protection interests and from the representatives of the Central Party here in the hall. And then they allow themselves in this debate to go into order not only to continue the shooting and practice field on the Brain, but actually to expand it. Yes, the credibility is so small that I think they would have done the wisest to keep quiet and not admit the difficulty of making difficult balances and difficult choices. There can be no surprise for anyone when the Storting Defence Committee today invites Stortinget to make a decision that in many ways is the result of a number of decisions that the Stortinget has taken in the past. Everyone is aware that this is a load, everyone is aware that this places an environmental impact on central parts of Hedmark. It must therefore be in everyone's interest to follow up the majority comment in the Committee's position to work as intensively as possible with remedial measures.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e988	St.meld. No 11 on the regional field of fire and drill for the Departments of Defence in the East is a very large and comprehensive matter. It has been going on for many years, and I have been given the opportunity to follow it both as a municipal politician, state politician and now as a big business representative from Hedmark. The input from both the no and yes sides has not been missing, nor has it been missing from any other information. Interesting organisations have been formed on both wings and on the respective site options. This is good, and I would like to say that almost all the information I have received has been serious. This shall be commended to the organisations and individuals. The Progress Party has no problem wanting a world where military forces were unnecessary. But we assume that the country needs a credible defense, nor do we get away from the fact that our female and male soldiers and commanders need an area where they can practice with the weapons they are expected to defend our country, or participate in a peacekeeping UN operation with. As a politician with both legs planted well on the ground, I have unfortunately not avoided seeing the negative sides that a field of fire causes. I am thinking in particular of those who get their residence quality reduced for various reasons. Here the Progress Party has said that the compensation they are entitled to should be provided. It was just supposed to be missing. The party of progress has also said that environmental damage must be minimal. In the case of those who receive their properties or their nourishment reduced in some way, the State shall also undertake to repair the damage to the best of all, and cultural memories shall be protected as far as possible. As regards the location options in Norway and possible rentals in Sweden, the Progress Party is convinced that the grey mountain must be the most appropriate site alternative. Renting in Sweden sees the Progress Party as impossible for several reasons in today's situation. It can't be right to leave the so-called negative sides to Sweden, can it? Is the environmental impact the same if the practice itself is carried out on one side or the other of a national border, disregarding the very establishment of a field of fire and practice? It's also by the opponents focused on the size of the field, and it's clear that it's a relatively large piece of land we're talking about. Both 38000 football courses or, for example, 38000 football courses are mentioned. half of the flatness of the Municipality of Oslo. But the fact is that only approx. 20 pst. the area will be heavily affected as a target area. Otherwise, you want to go to approx. 75 pst. of the total area of 25 km2 with certain limitations could continue to operate hunting, fishing, logging, etc. The defense will also not use the area 24 hours a day 365 days a year. Large parts of the year, such as summer, part of holiday time, autumn and most weekends, the activity will be almost zero. The Progress Party agrees that Hedmark is a defence force of good and bad. The defense has about 1 100 jobs in Hedmark, of which Åvot has received approx. 330 new posts in one year. In addition, the defense educates many soldiers, who are in the area for up to one year. These also, of course, add a lot of money, which has major ring-fences for an area where jobs are unfortunately a defect. Overall, this is about large amounts — around billion only in wages per year. years of military staff. Many of the military also enter the community by joining local associations, clubs, sports clubs, etc. and become a resource there. In retrospect, after the establishment of Rena Leir, it must be allowed to dwell on the idea of the municipality actually deserved it when leading municipal politicians are so negative to a practice field. More than 300 new jobs, with ring effects, 500 soldiers at any time and an investment of approx. 1.5 billion kroner in connection with the establishment of Rena Leir must have something to say for a municipality with a relatively low nutrient base? This must have brought Rena and Åmött a lot else to dream about? There has been a little Klondike-vote at Rena, several businessmen have said. As the only municipality in Hedmark, Åmot can also boast of a three-digit population increase in the last year. When, unfortunately, Rena Karton's factory is sold out in pieces, society needs what can be provided by a new establishment in connection with the new exercise area. As a whole, I also have to look at the consequences that could result if a new field of shooting and practice is not created in Hedmark. In this way, up to several military camps can be greatly reduced, perhaps even removed due to lack of exercise area. I think especially of Haslemoen in Våler in Solør. That there are also negative consequences when setting up such a field, we all agree. That we're going to have such a field in Hedmark, there's also a majority for, and today we're going to decide where. Let us therefore agree that the State should commit itself to replacing the disadvantages that private and business may suffer from such an intervention, and that the community is compensated for its disadvantages, including future ones, and that the creation of a business fund and environmental fund is assessed. If this is done, almost all of the negative aspects of a new shooting and practice field should have been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e1014	It is with regret that we see that the Alliance Workers' Party and the Advance Party are now probably going in to create a shooting field on the Grey Mountain. What's happening here today gives easy associations back in history to other major misdemeanors committed by a majority in this Chamber, for example. Alta expansion. As Minister of Environmental Protection, Gro Harlem Brundtland went to Britain to establish several national parks, but she also agreed to force through the expansion of Alta, which she stood up to and regretted many years later. On the grey mountain there are planned target areas of amazing beauty, pristine nature, which must be characterised as an attack on the ability of future generations to experience this. Gro Harlem Brundtland was also happy and proud when she was able to sign the Convention on Biological Diversity at the Rio Conference in 1992 on behalf of Norway, in addition to the Kyoto Protocol, the only binding international convention we have on the environment. It is tragic to see how the Workers' Party follows up our commitments on biodiversity seven years later! It is clear from the notification and the setting that the grey mountain is the option which clearly causes the greatest disadvantages to the natural environment. This applies primarily to forests and plant life in addition to animal life, in particular predators. The field of fire will also lead to major negative consequences for birds and smaller animals. The grey mountain has a rich range of vegetation types and high botanical diversity. Large areas are characterized by vulnerable vegetation and special flora. The grey mountain is therefore a national natural tax with very high protection value. Target areas are planned in a fantastic way, and this has been supported by the majority with open eyes. It is difficult to see that it is possible to remedy the damage by what the majority will adopt today. They will lead to extensive degradation of nature and the environment. Emissions to water and land during run-off from heavy metals are a very serious hazard when establishing the Regional Area. Within a concentrated target area there will be large metal deposits. After 10 years of use, the quantities deposited may be 70 tonnes of lead and 100 tonnes of copper. The risk of emissions may be reduced by remedial measures. However, with the basic conditions existing in the area concerned, it is difficult to completely eliminate the emission hazard. In this context, it is worth mentioning that Norway’s watercourse and energy plants do not primarily want the establishment of firefields in the Gråfjell area due to the danger of pollution to water and land. It should also be emphasised that the SFT calls for remedial measures that are realistic in relation to the use in question. Unfortunately, the majority have made little use of such assessments. In the case of wild game, an investigation has been carried out at the Hedmark High School of Bears in the Gråfjell area. The study is based on available data on bear Hi from 1979 to 1998. During the 19-year survey, it has been shown that no area in Norway had as much density of bear Hi as the grey mountain area. The density of hi in the survey period was 41 times higher than in the remaining area of the core area of bear in Norway. The high density and continuity of wintering make the grey mountain area a very special wintering area for bears from a national perspective. The establishment of a regional field could have a major impact on the unique position of the grey mountain in this way. I find it strange that the Workers' Party does not take more account of Norway's commitments under the Convention on Biological Diversity. Other negative impacts on nature, the environment and society include noise problems for the surrounding environment. It is clear from a letter sent by the Ministry of Energy and the Environment, attached to the statement, that three primary schools, three kindergartens and two old-age homes are affected by a noise level of around 100 dB when the shooting area is set up. It is outrageous that this is not given any weight by the majority! In addition, there is a risk of loss of cultural memories, greatly reduced possibilities for using the areas for recreation, hunting and fishing, strong restrictions on the possibility of developing tourism and reduced the possibility of housing in nearby areas due to noise. The majority, in their comments, refer to experiences from shooting areas elsewhere in the country and abroad, where ‘animal life seems to adapt to the activities of the Defence’. It is surprising that the majority in this way in part reject the major negative consequences of the shooting. The destruction of nature and the adaptation of nature depend on the remedial measures taken. However, it is not to be avoided that large areas of the area will be destroyed. It is gratifying that the Government of the overall assessments made in setting up a regional shooting and practice field does not recommend one of the three options. In this case, two important national social interests conflict with each other. After an overall assessment, attention has been paid to the seriousness of the action to be taken in the establishment of a firing range that cannot be recommended in relation to the overall environmental interests of the nation. The establishment of a new field of shooting and drill is a major and comprehensive matter, both for the nation and for all the implicated parties. In a matter like this, no one is earned with the urgency that the majority has had when this matter was to be forced through.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e1033	The long-term message presented by the then Minister of Defence, Fjærevoll, states that the Government is ‘acknowledged that the Defence needs’ means a field of fire ‘250 square kilometres’ in the Eastern region, and it is emphasised that the use of the field of fire abroad does not meet this need. Furthermore, ‘the use of simulators and computer-aided training... cannot replace traditional training and practice under changing field conditions’. This implies that the Government, with the agreement of the Storting, has already given strong leadership in the long-term communication for the further political treatment of government and big business. The long-term message is so far on the way to a range of arguments for a field of fire in the East, and it has strengthened the supporters of the field of fire in all parties, and, of course, weakened our opponents. I am therefore very surprised at the government's conclusion in the message. It's the worst possible thing! I think the Minister of Defense had insisted on presenting it to the Value Commission. Isn't the government aware that by expanding the existing shooting range on Hjerkinn, you're taking a large area in Folldal Municipality in addition to what's affected today? In addition, there are clear indications that there will be an extension of the field of fire at the Terningmoen, located in the centre of Elverum, which will affect many of Elverum's inhabitants. It should worry several of the speakers who have been so concerned about bearbinner in the past. I allow myself to point to the deterioration of our nature and our economic areas that any localization to Hedmark will mean. The proposed alternatives, the Grey Mountains and the Gravel Mountains, are both located within a larger coherent forest, mountain and recreational area. The area extends from Finnskogen in the south to Femundsmarka in the north, and its basic value is high. There will be significant adverse effects on nature, the environment and culture, industries and communities. The sub-plans for the areas indicate that this should be a green lung in Hedmark. On this background, I cannot go into the proposed shooting range. Of all things, the right has suggested adding the field of fire to the Grave Mountain. It is bad enough to have a shooting field that links important natural areas, if it is not to destroy an important cultural area that has roots back to finding immigration – a very vulnerable area for the district and our cultural heritage. Finn culture is of both national and international value. Many suggest that we, as opponents of the shooting field, are losing today – this is how democracy works at good and bad. I would therefore like to make it clear that further planning must take place in close cooperation with the relevant municipalities and the Defence Agency. And I am glad that the Government is failing in the sum of remedial measures, and that the Committee has clarified that the sum of remedial measures needs to be increased in order to reduce the handicaps of the region, such as noise, natural interference, risk of run-off, etc., and the protection of flora and fauna. It is very important to compensate for disadvantages and damage, and an environmental and food fund should be set up, without any of it actually being called compensation for the interference that would have to occur in nature. I am voting against all the proposals that exist, because they add up to shooting range in Hedmark – and I am against that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e1054	I agree with those who say that this is a difficult matter, but there is a tendency to try to make it harder than it actually is. Norway agrees to have a strong defence, and there is agreement that Norwegian personnel should have the best training to be well-equipped. Other speakers from the Right, the Labour Party and the Advance Party have justified the need for a new field of fire and have justified its location. I will therefore leave the defence policy side of this case. No one can get past the fact that the creation of a new field of fire involves a natural attack. It is therefore not a simple matter, but the nature intervention must be balanced against the need for defence. The parliamentary leader of the left justified the views of the centre parties with the desire for an offensive environmental policy. The fact that he at the same time deprioritises the needs of the defence, we must take note, but that today the Left will also vote against an extension of the Dovrejell protection plan, should raise awareness. The left has justified its opposition to the extension of the Upper Otta watercourse that an extension will conflict with the establishment of Reinheimen National Park. But then it's amazing that the Left doesn't see the seriousness in that consequence an extension of the shooting field on the Hierkin will have just for the national park at Dovre. At least this cannot be defined as an offensive environmental policy. The Committee on Energy and the Environment has delivered an opinion on the opinion of the Defence Committee. In general, the Committee's fractions are related to the comments made by the respective fractions in the Defence Committee. Aud Blattmann refuted the unreasonable criticism some have raised against the environmental committee's consideration of the matter. From the Committee on Energy and the Environment, a number of questions were asked to the Minister of Defence and by letter of 17 March the Minister of Defence responds to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. The fact that some did not like the answers that were given is understandable, because the Minister of Defence de-dramatises point by point many of the claims made by the opponents and also by a number of speakers from the centre parties. In the case of the Gravel Mountains and its consequences for forest Finnish culture, the Minister of Defence replied that ‘it must, however, be regarded as somewhat peripheral to the core area of forest Finnish culture’. Furthermore, in the case of the Grey Mountain and the Berne Convention: ‘The Ministry of Defence may not, on the basis of available investigative material and consultations carried out, see that a regional field would threaten the populations of species contrary to the protection obligations under the Berne Convention.’ And it goes on to say: ‘The impact assessment concludes that a region field in Alternative Grey Mountain will have no impact on the development of the bear strain in Hedmark’.» In the case of the tourism industry and the municipality of Trysil, the Council of State responds that: ‘Trysil tourist industries and in particular Trysil mountains will be very little affected by any region of the grey mountain area’. And finally, in the case of cultural memories, it is said: ‘Cultural memories will be recorded and no expansion will take place without clearance with the archaeological authorities...’ I can understand that some people didn't like these answers. A speaker from the Christian People's Party presented the majority's position on the inclusion of the abandoned field of shooting at the Hierkin in the extended Dovrefel protection plan as "breed" to nature. I don't think future users of the national park will see it that way. Today, the Dovre National Park is a little near a horseshoe around the shooting range. The position of the majority represents a significant extension of the protection area and will ensure a holistic and coherent management of Dovreberg and neighbouring areas through the Sunndal National Park. This will safeguard important natural and environmental interests. Thus, not saying that it is a simple task to restore landscapes and the tourist environment on the Hierkin, but the Energy and Environment Committee emphasises in its opinion that it is assumed that the area will be restored to its original state according to the protection requirements of such an area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e1090	What is the main issue in today's debate is whether we need a shooting and training field for the Defence Departments in the East. My answer is yes, we need it. Yeah, we might need the exercise field more today than before. In the past, the military concept was a kind of fatigue war where trenches and the number of soldiers were important. The new organisation on which all modern NATO countries are based is a so-called operational maneuvering concept adapted to regional conflicts, which we see tragically in the former Yugoslavia. In such situations, there is international cooperation not only between nations but between all arms and many types of military equipment. It is based on such experience and increasingly advanced weapon technology that we need a training field. All investments and reorganisations in recent years have been made in view of a manoeuvring concept. If a field of fire and drill were not to be built now, many of the investments would have been wasted. In the previous long-term notification, the size of the investment was already in line with the new concept, and it is therefore not surprising that a field of training needs to be built. It's the new motorized and advanced weapons that push. Motorised infantry, helicopter and rocket equipment shall practise together with infantry, cavalry, artillery, sanitation, supply, etc. in the same way as in international operations. It is for our soldiers a question of being well-trained and able to operate with great security. Not having a modern field of practice will compromise security and weaken the security of countries and people. So where should a field of fire and practice be? Any State must have its military facilities within its borders. The army is strongly concentrated in Hedmark, and both options The Grave Mountain and the Grey Mountain are described by the Defence as just as good, but they conclude with the Grey Mountain as the best alternative. After inspecting the area by bus and helicopter and reviewing several kilos of documents, I am – after an overall assessment – of the perception that the grey mountain is the best option. It is clear that a field of fire causes damage, but it is not, as many claim, 250 km2 that is destroyed, but 10-20 pst. will be directly affected as a target area. That is why the majority of the Defence Committee is in favour of remedial measures to reduce the burden on the environment. It is also important that local authorities are strongly involved in the planning of development. The environment has been very focused, and it is clear that a field of shooting and training is not positive for the environment. In order to balance the picture, the closure of the Hierkin shooting range must be included, and the letter from the Ministry of Defence on experience in the field of shooting and practice of other countries shows that the negative effects are clearly more limited than many imagined. It is therefore my clear conclusion when the environment and defence are subject to an overall assessment that the grey mountain is the best option.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e1105	After all, the defence must have a place to practice, we have been constantly involved in this debate. That is probably true, but before a new field of shooting and drill is built, all other possibilities to meet military needs should have been thoroughly explored. Let me underline that the consequences of building a shooting and training field in Hedmark are so great for this district that there are many good reasons to ask the question whether this is the future-oriented and correct project of the Defense into a new millennium. When the Government submitted St.meld. No 11 on new regional shooting and practice fields, it again showed that we have a government that does not dare to take its position. I share the Government's view that the social consequences are great when we carry out the greatest natural intervention in Norway's history. But the agreement with the Government is no longer going. Let me say that the government's credibility in terms of no to the shooting field is completely rake in the same breath as they point out the Graveberg on Finnskogen as the best option – and this with one line in the message, without any justification! I believe that the government here wants to stand up with its no-position, while at the same time wanting to protect a centre party rapporteur in Åmot, who has said clearly no to shooting and practice fields in his municipality. Through it, this government then denies responsibility for a development on Finnskogen, and in fact appears more like a party body for the Center Party than a powerful government. The tomb and the Finn Forest are the places where the Finnish immigrants settled in the 1600s and 1700s. And the memories from that time have not been affected by technical intervention from modern times. At Finnskogen today it is a thriving cultural life, despite a modest population. I am sure that a field of fire in this very area, as the Government and Right wants, will destroy this area's reputation for its magical and peaceful nature. The Finnskogen has something that is becoming scarce: stillness, tranquillity and the possibility of recreation. It is therefore amazing to me that the representative Åse Wisløff Nilssen of the Christian People's Party, through his government, supports the destruction of the Finnskogen. The defence batch on the right also has a slightly tense variant with regard to the position of the field of fire and drill. The Stortingsretten Bjørn Hernæs from the Right has been right about many alternatives, but I have now understood that he has managed to bring the Right Storingsgroup to add the shooting field to Gravberget. Not because it's what everyone prefers, nor because it's the cheapest option – no simply to protect the forest owners in the Gråfjell area of Hedmark, who may have a close connection with the Right. This is an interesting twist from the Right Defense Party. In my opinion, the grey mountain option is just as difficult to imagine implemented as the Grave Mountain. As a staging representative from Hedmark, I do not want the shooting and training field to be located in Hedmark. As far as the vote is concerned, I would therefore like to go against both the Gravberg and the Gråfjell option. And since all the proposals put forward for the shooting and practice field to be in Hedmark, I want to vote against all the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e1124	The issue of a regional field of defence in the East is a demanding decision that has naturally required long and extensive treatment, with consultations – both in writing and orally – and where individual representatives and parties have been contacted. The government has listened to the defense's argument, the government has listened to the environmental arguments, and the government has also listened to the local interests. From this the government has carried out a careful review of the matter of the field of defence practice and ended up with proposals that the Christian People's Party believes are a solution that both the defence, the environment and the local population can live with. As far as I can see, there are no solutions other than the Government's proposals that in the same way represent such a balanced solution. It may be claimed that the 0+ proposal is not optimal for the defence. Of the recommendations of the Defence Agency, it is possible to find solutions with which the Defence Agency is more satisfied, similarly, it is also possible to find solutions with which the environment and the local population are more satisfied than the majority’s proposals today. We don't miss a solution that means an extension in relation to today's possibilities to meet the defence needs. That's why the 0+ proposal is going to be a decent offer, as we see it. The defence has provided convincing arguments for the need for an exercise field beyond the scope of the day. In this context, we in the Christian People's Party believe that the Hierkin, the Terningmoen and the Red Smoen need to be reviewed so as to look at the spatial and user-oriented application of these significant areas that have already been used for military activity, rather than looking at new untouched natural areas that for generations have been useful for nourishment and recreation. It is an unfortunate urgency that is now to be adopted to the detriment of large natural areas and a committed local population. The Grave Mountain, referred to by the representative Fossum, is a recommendation to the majority, not a proposal. And when it is also claimed from the same representative that Åse Wisløff Nilssen will vote for this proposal, that does not result in the correctness.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e1138	In the debate on the establishment of a shooting and exercise field in the East, many people have thrown their eyes at Älvdalen's shooting field in Sweden, as well as the Center Party's group on the Stortinget. Many people believe that instead of expanding a field in Norway, we should enter into a defence policy cooperation with Sweden and rent practice time in this field. The Norwegian Institute of Foreign Policy, NUPI, has, on behalf of the Stop Region Field of Eastern Europe, prepared a report investigating the possibility of using the Älvdalen firefield as part of an alternative to the Region Field of Eastern Europe. This report has probably created expectations that such cooperation is possible. This is reflected in several requests received by the Defence Committee during our work on this big message, as well as in the public debate in the media. However, it has always been made clear both by former Minister of Defence Jørgen Kosmo, and former Minister of Defence Dag Jostein Fjærvoll that this is no alternative. The latter, who submitted St.meld. No 11, which we are now dealing with, says even in the big message on page 19: «Elvdalen shotfield in Dalarna in Sweden has been strongly highlighted in public discussions and media as a good alternative to Regionfelt Eastland. It is emphasised here that the Älvdalen option has only been launched through the public debate.’ He goes on to say on the same page: ‘A good defense is about a credible defence. The necessary credibility will be difficult to maintain if the main departments of the Army in South Norway are to depend on the territory of a foreign country in order to carry out their primary exercises. Should a crisis situation arise, it must also be foreseen that Swedish departments will similarly need the full capacity of the field for their own exercises. In such a case, our forces in the East would be completely unable to carry out realistic sharp-shooting exercises and heavy-armed joint exercises when the need is greater.’ In addition to the fundamental and safety policy assessments, there are also some practical reasons why it was not appropriate to consider the Älvdalen: 1st@item: inlistbox There had been a need to build a new road link between the large users and the Älvdalen. This would have cost hundreds of millions of dollars.2. One would lose exercise time during long transport.3. Annual rental costs are not known.4. The Älvdalen is mainly an artillery field and is not built with tracks, target events and other necessary installations that the Army of the East would need. If so, who would have done this? To suggest that we apply to Sweden to use Älvdalen shooting range is an attempt to get easily out of a difficult matter. What has also struck me is that those who propose to apply for the use of the Älvdalen have recognised that the defence needs a large field of shooting and practice, but they do not want to take the loads by establishing such a field in the East. Some claim that the Swedish authorities have invited us to use the field. This is not the case. In fact, it is said that a head of the Älvdalen field, from the Swedish defence, has said that it would be good if Norway could benefit from the field. The reason for this is enough that Swedish defence has been reduced, and that they do not use the field as much as before. However, he has no authority to invite the Norwegian Defence Force to practise in Sweden. This responsibility lies with the Swedish government, and it has not invited us to do so. In the Swedish Riksdag, there have been several interpellations, questions and written questions about the establishment of the Regionfelt Eastland. Of course, most questions have been raised about the Gravberget option, which is very close to the Swedish border, but also the shared use of the Älvdalen shooting range has been covered by questions. Among other things, the representative Lennart Verfling has asked Minister of Defence Björn von Sydow questions about the effective use of the shooting field and in that connection international exercises there. In his reply, Minister of Defence von Sydow said, among other things: that it is Swedish practice that foreign troops are not allowed to practice in Swedish territory. Except for this principle whether the exercises are part of the Partnership for Peace-Cooperation or in connection with other international exposures or in the context of cooperation on material projects. He also pointed out that he had answered the question of using firearms earlier, and whether this could be illustrated in the framework of the Nordic defence environment cooperation initiated by the Nordic defence ministers. To this end, he had answered that the question of opening up Swedish shooting areas to other states' military forces is a major question of principle, and that he was therefore not prepared to address such a question. In my opinion, this is a clear speech from the Swedish Minister of Defence Björn von Sydow.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e1185	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e1188	The proposal to add a new large shooting and drill field to Hedmark has resulted in a strong commitment to the county; eventually also a strong commitment to all parts of the country. This is an understandable commitment. Most political parties in Hedmark have also taken a clear stand against the field of shooting and drill. It is with great surprise that I note that the central party in the government still wants to use, among other things. Brain for shooting and training fields. They will have considered limited in-use expansion and any extension to the area of the current Hierkin plant. Not many years ago, the Centre Party’s large-scale group reacted strongly to the plans to establish a stockpiles of problem waste in the closed mines in Folldal. The storage was to take place several hundred metres down the mines and be secured in a very sound manner. The most important thing at that time was to safeguard natural and environmental interests. So now you're opening up so that you can keep using the Brain as a field of shooting and practice. Like the other representatives of the Labour Party on the Hedmark bench, I would like to vote against the establishment of the proposed field in Hedmark. I'm doing it because such an establishment, no matter which Hedmark option you choose, will mean, among other things. significant natural interference and heavy environmental pressures. Many suggest that voting later today will result in a yes-majority to the creation of a shooting and training field in Hedmark, namely the Grey Mountain. The government’s framework for follow-up investigations and remedial actions is set at 200 million. kr. I am pleased that the number of committees is in favour of increasing this framework, so that the necessary, remedial measures can be better taken. It is also important that the framework be made available in cooperation with the County of Hedmark, Hedmark County Municipality, Åmote Municipality and other directly affected municipalities, in line with the statements made by the majority of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e1205	Over the years, the case of Regionfelt Eastland has evolved into a field exercise in political and military excellence. The conclusion has been decided in advance, regardless of what investigations and calculations have to show along the way to the conclusion, which is given its final form here today. Regardless of the facts of the impact assessment, the majority of people here today are going in to give the green light for the defence to establish a region in the grey mountain. The government made a careful and responsible assessment, and concluded that there were so great and permanent negative impacts on nature, the environment and society that a new establishment of a regional shooting and exercise field had to give way to these considerations. Unfortunately, the Labour Party, the Advance Party, and also the Right, look away from these considerations, and will today vote for a shooting field added to an area in which the County of Hedmark has previously refused to build a cabin because of the special qualities of the area. A major and important issue in this matter is the right and participation of local communities in local resources and areas in relation to the sovereignty and the abuse of large-scale society and the state. The issue of priorities and allocation of the total resource to the Defence and the operation and purpose of the Defence has also been addressed. With the decision today, it seems that the defence will need to lock up so much resources for de-fielding, for remedial measures, triggers and replacements that there will have to be much less return to operation and material costs than it already is today. A general debate on this basis should go ahead of the matter we have today for treatment. It is also true that we have large training fields in Mauken and Bluetooth, where most of the equipment for such exercises is, and there should also have been a clearer topic in this matter. Performance has also been trying to find alternative solutions. Already in Kosmo's time as Minister of Defence, I raised the question of the use of the Älvdalen shooting range in Sweden, and that one should have a treatment and make a formal enquiry in that context. My question and proposal were rejected in a very easy way. Later similar requests have also been rejected, as this was clarified as not applicable. I think it's very bad that you haven't taken this up in a more serious way. Clear statements from the military management at the Älvdalen shooting range, and also from central politicians in Sweden, provide an opening to move forward in this matter. I would also like to refer to the debate in the Nordic Council here in this Chamber last year and a follow-up word change in the Swedish Parliament last October. These rounds cannot be unambiguously interpreted negatively for a dialogue with Sweden on field cooperation. I think it will take a very long time for a regional field of fire in the East to be established. For example, because of the economy, remedial measures and investigative clarifications, e.g.: in relation to cultural memory issues, it will take a very long time. The worst thing about today's decision is the clumsy hand placed over this 250 000 covers the large area as well as peripheral areas for future development and existence.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e1222	Former Minister of Defense Jørgen Kosmo had an unusually clear post that affected most of the issues surrounding the shooting field. However, I have two reservations with regard to Mr. Cosmos post: He has obviously forgotten to send a copy of it to Hedmark Arbeiderparti. I hope it can be fixed in retrospect. The arguments that Kosmo used have either not come up with or at least have not been passed through in the Hedmark Workers' Party. In this connection, the representative Grethe G. Fossum also had one of his usual, charming posts, where she among other things. comes with strong defense not to add a field of fire – which she does not want – to the Grave Mountain. So we got an investigation into the excellence of Finnskog culture, which probably had to be enjoyed by a lot of people. It is only that the ministry answers a similar question: ‘However, the area which may be affected by a region field of the East, alternative Gravberget, must be considered to be somewhat peripheral in relation to the core area of the forest Finnish culture.’» I think this was a good wording. In relation to the «forest Finnish culture», the option we are taking on the Grave Mountain is just as peripheral as that of the representative Grethe G. Fossum. I now think when this shooting field is about to become a reality, it's time for the working party-dominated Hedmark to put the suture aside and see the possibilities that this shooting field gives. I want to send them a post that Odvar Thompson had in Odvar Thompson on 20 February 1999 under the heading ‘Snipefield not just a disadvantage’. The shooting range is in many ways, at the same time as the disadvantages it also has, one of the greatest possibilities Hedmark has to develop further in the future. Once again, I refer to another not entirely peripheral representative of the working party, Mr. Bjørn Tore Godal, who also told about the importance of defence as a workplace for Hedmark states, and how it can help develop Hedmark states in the future. I have written two-three letters to the county rapporteur – the County rapporteur of the Workers' Party in Hedmark. When this decision is in place, I hope at last the Workers' Party will take this with me, put it aside, and agree to accept the challenge that this poses in a positive direction.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e1236	When the Storting decides today to do the greatest natural intervention over time, it requires extremely good justification and very thorough investigation. We have to be 100 pst. ensure that we can defend this resolution and the decision in 10 years' time as well as today. I am not convinced that we can do so, because there is no doubt that the Eastern Region will have a major negative impact on the natural and cultural environment and not least on outdoor life. The grey mountain is used today for hunting and fishing and not least for the simple, traditional outdoor life. The large, untouched areas attract people who seek silence and recreation. Such areas are becoming increasingly important in the years to come because of the increasingly Norwegian nature that is now being built up and exposed to noise and other disturbances. The eastern part of the region is located in the heart of the bear area. The core area of the bear is an instrument we have established to establish a bear population also on the Norwegian side of the border. And I don't think, sail about the guy in the defense claims that the bear thrives so well within the core area, that the bear's legs come constantly across the border with his kid under his arm to settle in the middle of the rain of the bullets and tanks. If we go in to establish a region field in the middle of the core area of bears, I believe that we, as fighters for nuclear areas, are weakening our credibility in predatory policy. Natural interventions such as the Eastern Region of the region can never be defended if they are not completely indispensable, are the last resort and all other alternatives have been thoroughly investigated, tried and rejected. It's not done. Neither increased use of other fields in Norway nor cooperation with Sweden has been investigated. For the sake of our natural heritage and for the generations that come after us, we should take the time to turn every rock before we finally decided. I'm afraid that's not done.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e1247	Let me immediately say that I do not express myself as anything but a government councillor and a member of the government. I'll briefly comment on the attacks on St. Report. No 11th@item: The cancellation message is from the Government as a result of the assessment announced in the long-term notice to the Defence, which was just presented by this government a year ago and dealt with by the Stortinget in June last year. The clear need for training and training of defence should be balanced against the social and environmental pressures of a new region. At the same time, in the long-term announcement, the Government announced that the alternatives requested by the Stortinget would be investigated and presented, as is also the case in St. reported. No 11 in the first chapters, and is based on the investigations carried out by the respondent, the Defence Building Service. In isolation, it could be said that the first chapters formed the basis for a collapse proposition. This would also be the natural form of presentation if the Government had opted for the establishment of one of the previously identified regional field options. The Government has therefore used the form of notification to notify the Storting that the investigation work has been carried out, but that, after an overall assessment, the Government does not find it possible to recommend regional blockade in any of the alternatives investigated. In view of the need for increased training and training in major fields, as explained earlier by the Minister of Defence, the Government is asking for agreement to investigate the extended use of existing fields, including Hjerkinn. It doesn't mean a 0 option, it means a 0+ option, which speakers have already underlined. Furthermore, the Government said that if, in the context of the investigation carried out by the action-holder, the Storting found that it would establish a region field, the Government, following a balance between the Gravberg and the Gravberg, found it desirable to recommend the Grave Mountain chosen. In this case, two important social interests at national level have come into strong conflict with each other. It is therefore completely wrong to say that the government has not taken a stand. It has even justified its position on the basis of a balance between these two important conflicting societal interests and has recommended it. That recommendation is contained in Chapter 11 of the Communication. The government has taken a stand, it takes a stand and it recommends the Storting to follow a course further after the conclusion, which today appears that the Storting will not follow. But the government has done the necessary investigative work. And let me just ask a concrete control question on behalf of the Government: Is it likely that the Government would have carried out a complete impact assessment and presented it as it has done in St. report. No 11, if it didn't have to take a stand? – I leave the question hanging in the air.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e1276	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e1279	If you take a position, you mean new investigations, you've taken a stand. But I recall that the State Council in Stortinget in October 1997 said the following: ‘The Government and the Minister for Defence do not propose a new special investigation round.’ And it turns out from other answers in the same question time that as soon as the government is able to do so, it will present a proposition on the matter on the basis of the need for a region of Eastern Europe. And the same thing is repeated in March 1998, also in Question Time, that there will be a proposal on the matter – in other words, a concrete proposal in the follow-up to the work of former Minister of Defence Kosmo and others, which has a coherent history in the Stortinget. And if a reader through what's in today's message -- everyone doesn't have a chance to do it, and one shouldn't oblige everyone to read grotesque messages -- there's a puzzling lack of coherence between the ten first chapters of the message and what's in the course of some button formulations in Chapter 11. It creates not only a suspicion, but a conviction from the majority in this Chamber that this has been done with the restrained political pen. There is simply no reason for what you end up with, nor in the history of the matter through the lines of the Council of State in Stortinget, as I have shown now. If one had been prepared at an early stage for a new investigation, at least one should have started it on the basis of it one knew if the difficulties of the Central Party and possibly the Left would impose on the Minister of Defence. But that didn't happen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e1292	Through the first 10 chapters of the Communication, the Government has complied with the requirements of the Storting and wishes for complete impact assessments for the three alternatives that were used at an earlier date. In other words, the government has followed this up to the last dot, and has thus provided a basis for the Storting to have the opportunity to make the real choice here today. This Council of State is quite correct at a time and a half a year ago, using the word ‘proposition’ in the Storting. When the long-term message for the defense was presented last February, and dealt with in June, we announced that we would carry out a complete review and assessment of what was on the table, to balance these societal conflicts against each other, as I mentioned in the article itself. In that assessment, it would be natural, if we fell on one of the alternatives, to choose the form of the proposition. When, following this evaluation, the Government chose not to point out one of these three options in concrete terms, but wanted to investigate and assess the extended use of existing fields, including the Brain, the situation was different. It's a description of the reality. On the part of this Council of State, the concept of investigation is linked to the fact that no new fields would be explored. Neither have I in my time – and now I speak as a former Minister of Defence – added up. As the current Minister of Transport, I have a strong view of the choice of grey mountain in terms of air traffic controllers, traffic management, costs etc., but on a wooden-minute post it is not possible to get into it today. But I have been through my department and raised objections through the impact investigations that are also on the table today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e1299	It is a somewhat unusual situation, perhaps, that the Minister of Defence and a former Minister of Defence are taking part in a debate on defence matters. In addition, another former Minister of Defence also took part in the debate. In the light of what we are debating, the Grand Hall seems to have gradually become a core area for former and current defence ministers. [[Laughter]] We then have to discuss conservation in other contexts. It is such that this matter becomes a little difficult as the former Minister of Defence and the current Minister of Transport have presented it. The Minister of Defence said that when I described this document that had been presented, as a sort of freak, a cross between proposition and notification, she took responsibility and said that she felt like a mother to this document. And now amaze me the father has also signed up. [[Laughter]] But it doesn't make matters any better. It is simply amazing that you are so staffed on a document that you want something other than what you conclude with. Here the Storting has taken responsibility, and will probably show a way out of the mess that the Government has brought itself into. So the size has to take responsibility. And then I have to ask: is the Minister for Transport satisfied with the path that Storting probably is taking today?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e1309	I have heard the word ‘misfoster’ being used today, and I have heard it in other contexts as well. Do you know what I think? I think that the way to build a big message, as it is done in this case, is going to be followed in many contexts in the future. But we'll wait and see. I believe that they have responded both to the wishes of Stortinget, given the leadership of solutions and debate, and in the next round for a conclusion. When it comes to having fun and fathering, I think I can say on behalf of the government that there's been a lot about fathering. [[Laughter]] The size should at least not take responsibility for this, whether you call it fun or fatherhood. I have tried to underline early in the debate that the Government has taken responsibility, it takes responsibility. Call St.meld. No 11 whatever you want, but at least it's an answer to what the Storing has asked for, it's a basis for making decisions. If the Storting feels that they're making the right decision today, it's up to the Storting to judge, there can't be a government council to rule over. The decision will require a government to take note of it, and it will need to be informed by a specialist council. A Minister of Transport may comment on roads, but he will refrain – with the budgets we currently have for dealing with in the Grand Duchy – from speaking out so much about either road choices, road costs or priorities. I guess I could say so that I'm not sure that as the Council of State, I would have given support to the way the majority is giving support today, if I had been a member of this room. Longer will not leave the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e1316	The President will propose that we concentrate on defence debate and not family distribution policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e1319	The context is adjacent. We've established a lot of things. We've been told that the staging message is a freak. We've been told that the motherhood is clear, but the fathership is very unclear, so we can use DNA tests to get it in place. Otherwise, we also understood that it is a core area in which we operate, and at least I assume that the former Minister of Defence maintains what he has said in one area, that he is in a government that is very responsive to the wishes of the Storting. With the small reservation, I confirm again that it will not be necessary to issue a breeding permit in the core area. But I would like to be allowed to ask: What has the Council of State and the Government meant by its recommendation of the Gravberg option? It says that if the Storting decides the field of fire, the Grave Mountain is the least painful option for them. Now, after all the sun brands will judge the Storting in their first or second vote later in the evening to determine by overwhelming majority that we should have a shooting and practice field, as described by the majority in the vote. Then the question is, What is the Government going to do when that decision is made? Will it then fulfill what it itself has said that the least painful option is the Grave Mountain, and in other words does it support it? If that is the case, I also have to ask: what could it be because the Government has not done a single political act to try to get a majority for any of its proposals, nothing to try to get a majority for its primary position and, as far as I understand, nothing to get a say in its alternative position? It would be interesting to get it done. It cannot be a government that can completely lead with wind and weather.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e1328	To the end, I can confirm that this is not a government that can lead with wind and weather. With regard to the questions asked by the representative, Mr Hernæs, I refer you to the answer the Minister of Defence gave a moment ago in his main post. There she explained, among other things: for the answers to the questions that were now asked. It will not be for the Minister of Transport to do so. So there's one thing I need to underline. St.meld. No 11 is a complete staging message. It also contains what is often in propositions. It's not a freak. It's an example of follow-up. But everyone, as it's said before today, fences around theirs and theirs whether you call it one or the other. There is no one in this room who is responsible for what has been presented, who has acknowledged or will acknowledge or at least has thought that this could in any way appear to be a freak, except in a political struggle where there is great division within most parties, and where large words are used, where strong words are used and where names are used. That being said, the government is behind St.meld. No 11, both today and when we presented it, and we agree on the recommendation contained in chapter 11 of the Storing Message.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e1339	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e1342	I would like to return to Mr Jagland's post earlier today. He came up with information from the internal process in the Workers' Party, and that's interesting, because it's really where the matter has been decided. The representative, Jagland, said that the Workers' Party strongly considered sending the case back to the Government for proper treatment and conclusion. If you go back a little bit in time, that's exactly what the government asked for in the long-term announcement last spring, and that was what the government fraction of the defense committee in its comments suggested should be the procedure. But more parties, including the Jagland Party, were pressuring this matter to the Stortinget early last autumn and that it would be dealt with before Christmas last year. One even went to the unusual step that the defense committee did away with its inspections before the matter was sent from government to big business, so half a year back in time, or so, it was a very pressure from the Workers' Party to get this through quickly. Now the Labour Party's parliamentary leader says that the matter should have been sent back for a better investigation. That's still possible. It is precisely the option that lies with the government parties here today, so if the Workers' Party still assesses the line that they have clearly assessed internally in their group meeting, it is not too late. In line with the fact that there are clearly slightly different views in the Workers' Party, it might be beneficial to encourage you to consider it again.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e1349	There's been a lot of interesting lately, and it's also here that it's from its own one to have it. Then I think something about the post of Grethe G. Fossum, but I'll leave it at rest now. It's also interesting to note that the representative Gjul talked about a bear park in this region field, and maybe it's possible to combine some of it. Then for more serious things. I ask those who are now in favour of this field of fire: do you know what this will cost today? Do you have the bill? The representative, Mr. Ingvald Godal, was concerned that there would be large financial outlays on transportation if he were to use the field of fire in Älvdalen. But the representative of Godal has calculated what, for example: The transport to Älvdalen will cost in proportion to the money that is being raised here in the establishment of a field and which is then permanently locked to an operating budget? I think there should have been something clearer flagging on it. It's clear that there's a job to do here. Definitive measures, SFT assessments in relation to e.g.: groundwater and its contamination, and studies and clarifications based on a precautionary principle, must now be at the bottom of a possible start-up here. Experience from previous major issues and projects makes it necessary to do so, and should be important to all of us. I think, among other things: here on both the Alta extension and the establishment of Oslo Airport Gardermoen. The National Research Ethics Committee on Natural Sciences and Technology, NENT, provides a very strong penalty for the expansion and precautionary principles of Oslo Airport Gardermoen. Now we must at least get a better arrangement for an exercise and shooting field in the Baltic Valley. It's also the case that there's a lot of cultural memory stuff that needs to be clarified first. It's just 6 pst. of the area under investigation, and it should be a cross-section of thought that about 6 000 peaced cultural memories are likely to be located in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e1360	The representative, Bjørn Hernæs, made a big point of a letter from the Ministry of Defence that showed that the culture of discovery was not really an interior of the Gravberg area. Thus the Tomb was the best option for Right and Bjørn Hernæs. But it's probably not that simple. Hedmark Arbeiderpartit places emphasis on several things when they do not want the shooting field to be added to neither the Grave Mountain nor the Grey Mountain. Tourism is important to the Finnish Forest. Large natural areas rich in animal and bird species and plants are destroyed. But first of all, it's rich in silence, and it can't be combined with shooting and practice fields at least. Then comes the old, used by the representative Bjørn Hernæs, about sutring from Hedmark Workers' Party. Hedmark Arbeiderpartie has gone against. They've fought it. The representative of Bjørn Hernæs here is to characterise all those who have opposed shooting and practice fields in Hedmark – not only in Hedmark Workers' Party, but also in all the organisations that have engaged – as sutrers. I hope they notice what kind of characteristic representative the Bjørn Hernæs gives of their serious work to prevent the destruction of nature in Hedmark. We have proposed remedial measures. We've suggested things that don't make it hard when the bulk of the population absolutely wants us to have this field of shooting and practice. I experience that Bjørn Hernæs believes that defense is the best attack. It might be interesting to hear how Bjørn Hernæs has intended to defend himself in terms of the following: Why does the Right select the most expensive option, namely the Grave Mountain? Why do they go against what the Defense wants as first priority? And why do the forest owners in the Grey Mountains mean more to the Right than the forest owners in the Gravel Mountains?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e1369	The representative, Hernæs, has spoken twice, and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e1372	The installation from Grethe Fossum was not directed at me; it was directed towards the Norwegian Workers' Party, minus Hedmark Workers' Party. Otherwise I would like to say that Jørgen Kosmo forgot one thing in his post. In his time as Minister of Defense, in connection with the establishment of Rena clay, he came with strong leadership towards the fact that there was no link between the establishment of the camp and the field of fire and practice that we had already begun to discuss. He came with such strong leadership that I have a number of understandings that people in Åvt feel that it is a regular breach that it is now said that that connection exists. The owner of the land in Åmot is a type of landowner who has done well, including: assistance from the county of Hedmark to prevent the commercialisation of the area. That price must now be paid by the same landowners. The fact that there is an untouched area in which it costs little to fix is used as an argument in itself in this case. I understand that people in Åmvet feel overwhelmed by the treatment this case has received.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e1381	The representative, Bjørn Hernæs, has left one of his charming posts. He's good at provoking. The content appears to be of minor importance. Hedmark's inhabitants, including the county rapporteur, are not known for murmuring or sewing, but the county's inhabitants and political parties must be allowed to fight, even against a field of shooting and practice. I am surprised that the representative, Hernæs, believes that the heathmarks should not have this democratic right. I would also like to believe that our county has different areas of activity than just a field of shooting and practice to build on to bring about a positive and favourable development in our county. We need the will and ability to cooperate, at least on the major developments in our state. We win little by highlighting disagreements and using all the forces and resources to fight each other close to each other at every opportunity. The representative Hernæs likes to attack the Workers' Party, and especially Hedmark Arbeiderpartie, and of course he has full opportunity to do so. But has the representative Hernæs never called for a lack of political emancipation of his attacks – in other words, a stronger uprising about Hedmark Right? The count so far seems to have been labile in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e1391	At the very end of the debate, I find it right for the rapporteur to take the floor again. I think we have had a neat and straightforward debate on a very difficult matter. That there has been a debate from time to time, which has also been characterised by some other elements, we get to take it on the road. As the rapporteur, I would like to stress the following: firstly, all of us who have opted for a solution with the grey mountain as an alternative to the Eastern Region, are fully aware of the problems it will cause for the people affected. We also know that once the defence has established a concentrated area related to its activities in this area of the East, it means that they must be given the opportunity to practice in line with the choices the Storting has made in the past. At least with the position in place, I believe that the majority, through their comments, have been involved in providing a basis for satisfactory solutions to remedial measures. Then all parties must cooperate. I also hope that those who see the possibilities offered by this document will help to make the most of the possibilities, both for the benefit of the municipality, for Hedmark's sake, and for the sake of the defence, and that they will now suffer the same suffering. I would also like to stress that although the Progress Party unanimously supports this, of course we also bear a deep responsibility for it. It was just supposed to be missing. But we have also had our debate on the road choices. I also know that the Workers' Party has had, and I must be allowed to pay tribute to my colleagues from the Workers' Party who have managed to keep their tongues in their mouths and follow up the decisions made by the Stortinget in the past. I know it hasn't been easy, but it's so that where the government failed, where the courage failed, the Storting had to take responsibility. The Labour Party and the Advance Party have done so in this matter. It's not all the things we agree on, but it's okay when you have a case, when you have a common goal, to work together for the common good. I will also give honor to the Right even if their election is different. They also assume a responsibility by taking part in a decision establishing a regional area and have notified subsidiary support to the majority view. With this, I hope that the work on this decision will be done in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e1404	The representative, Ola D. Glötvold, has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e1407	The representative, Bjørn Hernæs, had a line in which he commented that I had taken the initiative for a Document No. Eight proposals in the spring of 1997 to investigate the use of the Älvdalen. That's absolutely right. We wanted to focus on that. Unfortunately, we have not succeeded, because there has been a bastant majority against going into that matter and trying to do something formal and factual out of it. When we do not promote that proposal again, it has to do with the fact that, in the meantime, the great choice we had gave an even clearer majority against considering the Älvdalen as an alternative. Then we do not promote it again and the representative here should know that a document No. Eight proposals don't go directly to the government. It's dealt with here first, and in that case would have been downgraded. Then there had been a very bad case both for us who have this vision, and for the Government. Otherwise, the representative has turned 180 degrees in this matter. He was involved in investigating the Älvdalen to a long time in 1997, with quite demagogic contributions for it. Now the demagogy has turned to the opposite. Otherwise, I would like to say at the bottom of the debate that this is a sad day for the grey mountain, and I don't think it's a good day for the defense in relation to the disposal of their total resources.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e1421	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 2471]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e1435	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes and the other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e1444	This is perhaps one of the few annual reports in which there is not so much powder in it – for the first time. You know, it might be okay at the end of the day. When the annual reports on broadcasting and the daily press were introduced in time, it was initially in order to provide a better management tool for media policy and a more continuous overview of developments. It has now become apparent that it is quite difficult to obtain these notifications in a timely manner, and thus they have ended up being dealt with in the Stortninget up to over a year after the year from which they are reported. Thus, these messages have not become as current as we had hoped. The Government has now proposed, on the initiative of the Committee, to replace them with a separate State Council statement, which is supported by an overall committee. Now it is a prerequisite that in that case there will be a statement coming to the spring part, so that there will be more day-to-day treatment than a notification entails. So it's obvious that there are several media issues that are being promoted as their own issues, and the ability of the Committee to address matters on its own will be reduced. Therefore, I would like to stress that this should be a testing scheme, which we will be able to assess after a while to become a more effective management tool. I, as the rapporteur-in-Office, have used the opportunity to try to make a more fundamental increase in how far the political governance of the media will go. When we give special advantages and concessions, we have also made demands on the programme profile and public broadcasting requirements. Therefore, it is necessary to have a tongue in your mouth in order not to cross the boundary of interference with the editorial responsibility of the Institute. Therefore, the assessments made by the Public Broadcasting Council also become important and advisory for the assessments to be made by a concessionaire’s ability to meet a concession requirement. The general public programming as a tool in the policy of distribution has not been particularly focused, but the General Public Broadcasting Council points out that media development can contribute to increasing disparities by increasing the information gap. Knowledge will be important in order to achieve key policy objectives for the future, and a majority of the Committee also points to the responsibility of public broadcasters to be providers of information. So finally, two specific issues: a majority have expressed their opinion on the ability of local radios to operate bingo. There is no doubt that there has been a crucial source of income — and one of the sources of income the Stortinge has previously pointed to as far as possible — for many of the small local radios. Recently, we have experienced that there has been some uncertainty about the introduction of a new practice around many of the country’s policy frameworks, including those in the field of drugs. as a result of a circular sent out. Now the majority say clearly that we do not want to change the practice when we know that we will also soon receive the Lottery Act for treatment. As a result, practice should be continued until a new one has been adopted. The last point I'm going to spend some time on is the situation of deaf and hearing impaired. Television is gradually becoming a very significant factor in the political debate and thus also in the democratic system we have built up. Therefore, it is not satisfactory that there are 400,000 people who have problems following the ongoing debate. So far, we have been waiting for a development of the technique so that direct captioning would be possible. And now the bulk of the population starts to get a little impatient. We know that other countries' public broadcasters have the power to offer a good deal to these groups. For this reason, the bulk of the population has also ended up asking the Government to assess the legalisation of the subtitles of live programmes if it is not possible to find good solutions within a reasonably short period of time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e1463	St.meld. No 12 is the notification of the annual media activity. The paper covers the year 1997, and the main basis for the notification is the annual reports from the public broadcasters. Therefore, the notification covers only these. The Progress Party therefore sees it as positive that, in the future, the Minister of Culture will give an oral presentation to the Stortinget on this theme instead of sending this message to the Stortinget. The reason for this is that there will then be a more topical debate because it can then be given at a more appropriate time than today. The message points, among others: on some unfortunate aspects of the development of public broadcasting, such as: low-growth ratio, low-level programmes for Sami and other minorities and otherwise low-level linguistic variation. The Party considers that this is a market that must be determined according to the wishes of consumers and not on the basis of a fixed percentage. The Progress Party believes that there should be less state control of media business activities. A free and unregulated press is a prerequisite for maintaining democratic society. We must therefore respond to the zeal of the Ministry of Culture after managing the media companies more and more. The important thing for society must be that media companies send programmes that a large number of viewers want to watch. Commercial channels are often better at capturing what is the people's taste at any time than the state-run public broadcasters are. This is because the commercial actor in a completely different way from the public is dependent on the viewers to survive. High performance if an application shows itself busy There shall be no objective for the State to manage media businesses so that they have to send programmes to narrow groups In the long term, society will lose quality in doing so. Both TV2 and P4 have achieved a very wide foothold in the Norwegian population over a relatively short period of time. This must mean that selecting the application profile has been successful. What has to count is whether the broadcasters get hold of a broad audience to create a good economic basis for their activities. They will in the long run be able to create programmes that interest an even wider audience. In the case of a lack of programmes for so-called minority groups, such as: It must be pointed out that minority groups also look at the usual programmes. There shall be no requirement for public broadcasters to send programmes addressed only to narrow groups. If you were to demand it, the big public broadcasters would lose a lot of their audience. The goal must be that the widest possible number of broadcasters will be held by the widest possible audience. To this end, it can be pointed out that we now have more and more television and radio channels specialised in a particular genre from an international perspective. This helps to better respond to the needs of those who are particularly interested. Very many Nordics are currently receiving these channels because they are connected either to a cable network or to a parabolic facility. Several such channels will come in the future and will also contribute to enriching the Norwegian TV and radio audience. This helps us in this country to have access to much more quality programmes in special areas than our own broadcasters are able to create and broadcast. In the absence of a broad linguistic and cultural profile, the Progress Party believes that most public broadcasters have a wide range of employees using a variety of Norwegian dialects, including: in nynorphic. It is therefore wrong that you only calculate with the standard newnorm. Norway is a country with very many different dialects. What is good culture, is an unclear question, and will be a concept that is constantly changing. We believe that the media companies themselves will be good at capturing what a majority believes to be ‘good’ culture at all times. In the case of local broadcasting, for which the Progress Party wants to strengthen and improve working conditions, there is some concern about the potential of local radios to operate bingo as a source of income. Fortunately, the majority of the Committee supports the view that the Lottery Act must be practised in such a way that local radios which have an ideal and socially beneficial purpose and which do not pay dividends to owners are allowed to operate bingo as a source of income until new lottery laws have entered into force.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e1486	The media are taking more and more of our attention. They not only fill more and more of our time, but they also increasingly influence the choices we make. At the same time, the number of media is increasing year by year, and technological developments are raging. In this context, the annual debate on media activities may almost reflect a verbal cycle of obligations on the theme ‘Snow falling last year’. Discussion of the activities for the year 1997 well into the year 1999 is not directly meaningful. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we are pleased to see to it that we are given a test order with an annual oral presentation that will deal with both the activity of general and local broadcasting and the general development of media policy. It will help to make the debate more up-to-date, and the Storting's views will be known at an earlier date. In addition, the Government has announced several important individual issues on various media policy issues in our country, so that there will be a rich opportunity to discuss media policy in the future. I would therefore like to make a few comments on the annual report that has been submitted. As you know, anyone who wants to run public broadcasting in Norway must apply for a concession. For the public broadcasting sector, it is the responsibility of the General Broadcasting Council to check the concessions granted and to follow up any references to the Ministry. Therefore, the size has little opportunity to intervene in programme activities. It is important, as underlined in the setting up, that the editors' institute be respected. However, it is not to be concealed that the Public Broadcasting Council has made important comments concerning several concessionaires, in particular this concerns TV2 and P4. The Council has raised significant criticisms regarding several aspects of the activities of both channels. Without going into single pages of this criticism here, I just want to stress that it must be a prerequisite that everyone who has been granted a concession does their utmost to comply with the terms of the concession. Furthermore, the Christian People's Party considers that it is not sufficient to base only the concession terms, but that the concession applications themselves are also taken into account when assessing the company's activities in relation to the concession. I'm referring to the fact that holding a concession to conduct advertising funded broadcasting is a privilege. In order to give this privilege over time, it must of course be said that the signals given in connection with the application and on the basis of which the concession award was assessed will also be included as part of the concession basis. Furthermore, from the Christian People's Party, we will stress the cultural responsibility of the individual concession holder to manage on behalf of society. It is a major challenge in a pluralistic society to contribute to the preservation and strengthening of the values and culture base on which Norwegian society is founded. We are today facing an increasing internationalization and a stream of different cultural and spiritual impulses from different sides, and much of this is positive. But in this context, the media have a great responsibility to contribute to raising awareness of the values that lie in our own history and interpretation of life. One point in the configuration has created a certain discussion and led to a different one. It concerns the ability of local radios to operate bingo as a source of income. A majority consisting of the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Right describe in a note what they perceive as a tightening of the Lottery Act. In the view of the Ministry of Justice, it is a prerequisite that a local radio operated by a purely commercial undertaking, in practice a traditional limited liability company, will not be able to obtain lottery permits under the law. However, the Ministry of Justice claims that this does not imply a change in the interpretation used in the past, but merely a clarification of current practice. On the other hand, the majority of the Committee asks that the Lottery Act be practised in such a way that local radios which have an ideal social purpose and which do not pay dividends to owners are allowed to operate bingo as a source of income until the entry into force of new lottery laws. In other words, it does not depend on the form of ownership behind the local radio, but on whether dividends are paid to the owners. The Ministry of Justice, however, considers that certain requirements for ownership must be laid down by law and that this must be assessed in the individual case. At the same time, the Ministry has issued a deadline for all local radios concerned to transform their ownership structure. At the same time, the Ministry of Justice is working on a revision of the rules of the Lottery Act and announces a review of the rules on bingo in the area of radio and television. I find no reason to go further into this question here. I just want to express the hope that solutions will quickly be found to secure local radio revenues without creating conflict with the law. The conditions of the press are also mentioned in the setting. A sample is selected in these days to assess the framework conditions of the press. It means that we will come back to that matter and have a debate on the future situation and framework conditions of the press.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-23.ana.ud1048e1507	The scheduled time for the morning meeting is over. The President proposed that the meeting be suspended and that a new meeting be set at 5 p.m. 18 for continued treatment of the current map. – It is considered biphasic.
