ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21.ana.ud899e25	Honourable co-representatives! Former P.A.A.A.S. Lionæs is dead. When Aase Lioness thanked him in 1977 after 24 years at Stortinget, she summed up her political life as follows: "I have seen the death of the poor society and the birth of the welfare state." It is one of the ‘grand old ladies’ of the movement that is now gone. Throughout her life she was an active political man, with a burning belief in freedom and justice. She was one of those who characterized the Norwegian labour movement in the first 20 years of the war. At that time there was only a handful of women on the Stortinget. She was respected and admired, but also disputed, not least for her actions as chairman of the Nobel Committee and her protests against decisions taken by the Committee after she left it after 30 years of membership. Aase Lionæs was a leading woman, both in Norway and in the international community. She was the first woman in the Presidency, the first woman in the Stockholm Finance Committee, and the first woman who made proposals on behalf of the government of the UN Main Assembly. She was a delegate to the United Nations for a whole 20 years, and was one of the driving forces behind the UN Convention that gives women equal political rights in all countries. She could not accept discrimination, nor against women in the Church. As a consequence, she also became an avid spokeswoman for female priests in Norway. Similarly, she was at the forefront of the fight for a liberal abortion law in Norway and for women’s right to self-determination. It was primarily the social distress of Grünerløkka in the 20s that caused Aase Lionæs to wake up politically. After taking her university degree in social economy, she put her entire workforce and all her knowledge into the service of the labour movement. She was alternate to the Stortinget in the period 1954-57. Most of this period she met firmly, first while Rachel Seweriin was the Council of State, and then for Einar Gerhardsen in his period as Prime Minister. From 1958 she became a permanent contributor to the Workers' Party from Oslo. After the war on behalf of the Refugee Council and Redd Barna traveled around the refugee camps in war-torn Europe to carry out the difficult task of picking out the refugees that Norway could receive. Aase Lioness chose those who had the most difficulty among the refugees, those for whom no one else would take responsibility. Aase Lioness was irreconcilable to injustice and dictatorship. In the 1930s she fought Hitler and Franco, in the 1950s, 60s and 70s she fought against the Soviet Communist dictatorship. Nevertheless, it is the word «loyalty» and not «dispute» that stands out most strongly when the succession to Aase Lioness is to be written – loyalty to the ideas of the labour movement, loyalty to the party that she chose, loyalty to her friends in Israel, in the Soviet Union and in Norway, loyalty to democracy. We remember Aase Lionæs with deep respect and shines peace over her memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21.ana.ud899e51	From the Norwegian delegation to the 1999 session of the Council of Europe, Part One, in Strasbourg, an application has been submitted, signed by the Head of the Delegation, Mr Tom Thoresen. The application concerns the authorisation of the representatives Olav Aksensen, Aud Blattmann, Annelise Höegh, Jan Simonsen and Tom Thoresen from 26 January to 28 January and of the representative Jorunn Ringstad from 27 to 28 January. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave:For the West Agder County: Rolf Terje KlunglandFor the Hordaland County: Gard FolkvordFor Oslo: Anders C. ShaastadFor the Rogaland County: Toril Haaland HorpestadFor the Sogn and Fjordane County: Nils R. SandalFor the Eastfold County: Morten Olsen
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21.ana.ud899e106	The representative Jørgen Holte will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21.ana.ud899e109	On behalf of the representatives of Lars Gunnar Lie, Terje Johansen and myself, I would like to propose a temporary reintroduction of the fuel delivery scheme over the State budget from 1 February 1999 to 30 June 1999.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21.ana.ud899e114	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21.ana.ud899e124	I would like to present in this statement a strategy for humanitarian aid, where 10 points for concrete follow-up are finally outlined. To put the strategy into context, I will first describe the changed landscape in which humanitarian aid must operate. 1998 was a disaster year. In South Sudan, starvation struck with unspeakable strength and magnitude. This gave impetus to the greatest help the world has seen for a very long time. In Central America, the greatest natural disaster has been experienced in decades. The destruction of the Hurricane Mitch is said to have restored the development of the region to a generation. In Europe we witnessed again that thousands were driven from their homes, this time in Kosovo. And now the situation is again very worrying. In Norway, we have a long tradition of providing assistance and assistance on a declared humanitarian, solidarity basis following natural disasters, environmental damage and in the wake of war and violent conflict. Thousands, perhaps millions of human lives have been saved from starvation through relief efforts in several rounds in the Sahel area and on Africa's horns. We were among the first on the spot after the earthquake in Spitak in Armenia in 1989. The field hospital we set up is still in operation. In Bosnia we have since 1994, and while the war was still going on, provided relief, built homes and rehabilitated hospitals for many thousands of people. When the hunger disaster in North Korea became internationally known in 1997, we were in place with food supplies, especially for the children. Help is still required. Last fall, we quickly responded to the Mitch disaster, and the reconstruction of the countries is now under way. Humanitarian aid benefits! In 1992, the Stortinget granted DKK 1 billion for such humanitarian aid. This year's budget is above 2 billion. In other words, over the last seven years, our humanitarian aid has doubled. This assistance now amounts to a little less than 20 pst. of our overall aid budget. This is not because, in itself, it is a political goal to provide more humanitarian aid, it is because needs only increase and increase. This development must be reversed. It is therefore time for the Stortinget to discuss humanitarian aid separately. Today, most of the humanitarian aid is being provided in a difficult political landscape, often in areas where armed conflict continues. We seem to be facing not only a new picture of conflict, but also a new picture of disaster. This has changed the assumptions for what has traditionally been called emergency aid. Natural disasters appear to be increasingly the result of human pressure and intervention in the environment. They are therefore often partly man-made. Violent conflicts are always a wild human act – wanted by some. This has led to extensive human suffering. It has confronted us with difficult balances. It has given us new challenges in efforts to ensure compliance with the provisions of the international humanitarian legislation. It has demonstrated the importance of effective international coordination of relief measures. Let me show you this by some numbers: Violent conflicts are now occurring more frequently within than between nations. Of the 101 armed conflicts between 1989 and 1996, only six were between States. The majority of the conflicts had a clear ethnic element. According to some sources, the number of civilian victims has risen from 5 pst. in World War I for an estimated period of between 80 and 90 pst. in war in the 1990s. In 1998, some 30 million people fled. More and more people are internally displaced, i.e. fleeing in your own country. Cheap, mass-produced small arms kill far more people than the more traditional, heavier weapons. Mines contribute to the suffering and death of 26 000 people a year. In recent decades, the number and extent of natural disasters have increased sharply. From the 1960s to the 1980s, the number of major natural disasters has increased from 16 to 70. This presents us with very great challenges. It requires effective and coordinated auxiliaries when crises arise. It requires that we see our humanitarian commitment in the context of our other efforts for peace, human rights and development. It requires that we focus more on preventing disasters and violent conflicts and intensifying efforts to create peace and reconciliation. It requires an integrated approach linking humanitarian aid and long-term development cooperation. In other words, we must meet these challenges with a more comprehensive strategy for humanitarian aid. That's what this statement is about. The armed conflict has always been primarily about power. Many of today’s conflicts are characterized by their long - standing and extremely violent nature. Violence primarily affects the civilian population. Often, the parties to the conflict have a purpose of expulsion or retaliation. Violence also strikes the weakest groups hardest. Women and children are high on the lists of killed and injured. The long-term effect is that violence is accepted and institutionalised, and society is brutalised. At the same time, we see that ethnic conflicts are being regionalised. Different ethnic groups are not based primarily on national borders. Disunity and inequality, combined with discrimination against groups in access to economic and social resources such as land, work and education, provide considerable room for manoeuvre in power policy. It will be easy to give an ethnic and cultural explanation of injustice. This is used to motivate violence against groups other than one's own. We've seen it in the former Yugoslavia. We see it in Central Africa, where, among other things, the escalation of the conflict. in the Democratic Republic of Congo is at risk of overturning its fragile political stability throughout the region. Many of today's warriors are mixed conflicts, often with uncontrolled militias and outside aggression elements. Experience has shown that there is little opening up to compromise and negotiated solutions. Often war can become a way of life, where many see no future after the end of the war. On the other hand, most conflicts end by one party receiving a military takeover. At the same time, it turns out that in about half of the conflicts where one has been able to negotiate a solution, the parties to the weapon again take a few years. Angola, Sierra Leone and Guinea-Bissau are examples of this. This also underlines the need for a stronger political pressure from the international community. In such a situation, it is our moral duty not only to contribute to resolving the conflict and putting the rulers to responsibility, but to help the victims, those who are being affected. These are human dignity, solidarity and the fight against injustice and distress. This is the humanitarian imperative. Many developing countries are burdened by accepting large refugee flows from neighbouring countries, which should be valued much higher. The more responsible we have, which is one of the richest countries in the world, to use resources to help those who need it. If we do not address the causes of conflicts and disasters, we cannot reverse developments. Therefore, humanitarian imperatives must be expressed not only through humanitarian aid, the saving of lives, but through a much wider commitment. Help must meet the real needs of the population and respect their rights. It must help to strengthen – not weaken – local capacity. It must ensure that those affected do not become dependent on outside support, but can handle their own situation and development as soon as possible. It must be set up in such a way as not to give rise to a rebloated conflict or to new lines of conflict. It must not leave societies more vulnerable to new natural disasters. It must not be allowed to continue and replace political action. Humanitarian aid has two pillars. It shall provide immediate assistance to those in distress and, as far as possible, protect innocents from abuse. At the same time, it has to be developed in two completely different environments, i.e.: in relation to armed conflict and when natural disasters destroy people's normal lives. This represents in many ways two main forms of humanitarian aid. Protection is both a state obligation and an individual right. It's based on the right to life. The important extension of this, namely the right to life in dignity whatever the situation, is enshrined in the human rights obligations. Humanitarian aid must be organised in such a way as to build upon and promote human rights. Human rights are always valid, and they apply to everyone. However, since the States themselves are to implement them, we often see that there is a great deal of political concern, the protection of human rights is particularly vulnerable. In such cases, there may be a need for an international presence which may provide the necessary protection to the civilian population. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees and the International Red Cross Committee have a special responsibility to protect the rights of victims. Their work and mandate are therefore central pillars of our humanitarian policy, based among others. on a comprehensive regulatory framework to protect civilians in various forms of armed conflict. We will work actively to ensure that the legislation is respected. These are the four Geneva Conventions on International Humanitarian Law. They are about how to treat sick, wounded, prisoners of war and civilians in international conflicts. Some provisions also apply in internal conflicts. Serious violations of the provisions of these conventions will normally be war crimes or crimes against humanity, with personal criminal liability. It is in the year 50 years since the Geneva Conventions were adopted. This is an occasion for a renewed focus on their importance and enforcement. The second is about the Refugee Convention. Various conflicts have driven well over 30 million people away in the 1990s. We have seen the political impact of mass exodus, mass deportation, forced movement and various forms of ethnic cleansing, not least in the former Yugoslavia, where this has had, and has, a major impact on national and regional stability. Thirdly, there are guidelines for internally displaced persons or people fleeing in their own countries. The majority of refugees are internally displaced today. These are not covered by the provisions of the Refugee Convention and thus have little international protection. Norway has long been a driver for better protection of internally displaced persons. Last year the UN Commission on Human Rights issued guidelines by the Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Internally Displaced People’s Rights. They are based on existing humanitarian rights and human rights. We will work actively to ensure that the guidelines are used as an international standard. The humanitarian principles in particular: The Geneva Conventions are regarded to a significant extent as binding customary law. States are therefore obliged not only to allow but also to respect and support the necessary assistance and protection work carried out. When the UN and the Red Cross enter a conflict area with assistance, this framework of international law applies to their activities. Human rights are often confused with international humanitarian law. The prohibition of violence, killing and torture by humanitarian law is linked to the right to life and physical integrity that we recognize from human rights. While human rights always apply, humanitarian law is in force in war and conflict situations. Under the Conventions on Human Rights, only States may be liable for breach of obligations. In humanitarian law, individuals are primarily responsible. In the Yugoslavian and Rwandan tribunals, individuals are prosecuted for genocide, other crimes against humanity and serious war crimes. The decision on the establishment of the permanent international criminal court last summer was an international and humanitarian breakthrough. The Government will work actively to establish the Court of Justice as quickly as possible with the greatest possible international opening. This may also have a preventative effect. While humanitarian work often demands enforcement of the principle of impartiality or neutrality in conflict situations, many human rights activists can be seen as political actors. The humanitarian organisations target different attitudes to the issue of resolving a conflict. However, the main emphasis of humanitarian work remains impartial and requires unhindered access to assist those in need. At the same time, we see that these principles are violated as never before. Ensuring access to humanitarian aid has been a major problem in Bosnia, Sudan, Afghanistan and many other places. The blocking of auxiliary consignments has been used as a means of weakening the other party. Robbery and attacks on relief missions and assaults against auxiliary workers have been, and are, widespread. The UN and the Red Cross have a long experience in negotiating the necessary access for the aid. However, in several conflicts, the way of negotiation has not led forward. Stronger political pressure has been necessary. This is why the UN Security Council in the 1990s has been committed to issues of humanitarian access and security of relief work. In some cases, as in Bosnia and Somalia, this led to the UN establishing peacekeeping forces. This is a resource-intensive tool, and it is becoming increasingly difficult to mobilise political will and resources for such efforts. Peacekeeping forces also require a minimum of respect and cooperation from the opposing parties in order to succeed. The security of humanitarian workers is growing concern for all those involved in humanitarian aid. Therefore, the UN has developed better preparedness measures. At the same time, the warring parties must be held responsible for violations against these groups. Measures to improve compliance with the principles of the protection of humanitarian workers need to be strengthened. The government has been and will continue to be a driver in this work. Women and children are particularly vulnerable to conflict and crisis situations. They make up 80 pst. by the refugees of the world. Nevertheless, they often get less international protection and assistance than men. Women on the run are often undernourished, die more often of disease and are more prone to violence than the male refugee population. In recent years, conflicts have shown frightening examples of systematic assaults on women, mass violence, abductions, forced prostitution, demands for sexual services in exchange for food, and other abuses. The Women's Convention condemns violence against women. The government will work actively to ensure that it is complied with. Measures need to be more effective in protecting and assisting women who are victims of abuse. We need to strengthen women's rights. We must ensure them roles in the work of peace and reconciliation. Children are often even more vulnerable. The ease of access to, and widespread use of, modern warfare handguns contribute to the increase in violence. These weapons are easy to learn – and they are easy to carry. It also makes it easier to recruit children for soldiers. Investing in education also in conflict situations is a key step to avoid such recruitment and demobilisation of child soldiers. It has been estimated that a quarter of a million children — some just seven years old — are now trained in weapons and war. Between 1980 and 1995, an average of 365 children were killed each day as a result of acts of war. Anti-personnel mines kill and hurt 800 children a month. Even many more suffer from war-related traumas. The Government will contribute to raising these issues high on the international agenda. The Convention on the Rights of the Child guarantees the right of children to be children. It underlines children's demands for a healthy breeding environment and highlights their rights – in war as in peace. We need to strengthen children's rights. Therefore, the Government is working intensively in the United Nations to establish an additional protocol to the Children's Convention to raise the age limit for participation in war. This is how the occupation of children as soldiers can be controlled. Then we will at the same time secure children's right to a childhood. In particular, the Taliban regime in Afghanistan recently updated the issue of the continuation of humanitarian aid, while at the same time committing clear violations of human rights. Is there a limit to what we should accept from assault and massive violations of human rights in order to maintain the relief work? Should we accept the gravest violations of women's and girls' rights, while cooperating with the authorities on humanitarian aid? The question is whether there is a lower limit to what the international community can accept. When women are denied public access to hospitals and health services and girls are not allowed to attend school, we must demand that the authorities comply with fundamental rights. In Afghanistan, there is now an open conflict between the Taliban and the donor community. The UN and most private organizations are out, and most of the relief work has stopped. Back there are those in distress. Finding the right balance between the exercise of human rights and the need to bring help to the needy is difficult. The donor community must not be playing against each other here. The only solution is close international coordination. We must insist that international aid work cannot and must not relieve States of responsibility for their own citizens. We must insist on the obligations of states and respect for human rights. Driving unwanted groups away is often one of the objectives of civil war. We must not contribute to governments depreciating the safety and well-being of special populations. The Government will therefore strengthen the dimension of human rights in the international relief work. This issue has also been updated in Central Africa. The genocide in Rwanda in 1994, killing up to one million people, was a watershed in international humanitarian work. The international community did not intervene in time to stop the genocide. This led to strong criticism of the UN and many of the international actors. Rwanda is also an example of one of the most difficult challenges humanitarian organisations can face, namely to distinguish those refugees who have legitimate requirements for international protection from those who do not. The extremist groups behind the genocide took up to three million hostages to neighboring countries. Military groups and killers were hiding in the flow of refugees. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees has accepted procedures to establish protection status, but not mandates or resources to do so when armed groups oppose it. At the same time, humanitarian organisations were faced with enormous tasks of bringing food and supplies to the massive new refugee population. However, this work left a void because the help was directed more towards those who fled than to those who were left. The humanitarian situation in Central Africa remains a cause for concern. The serious shortcomings of the international effort towards Rwanda have taught us a great deal: The international donor society needs to become more aware of the potential for conflict in inner tension societies. Humanitarian action needs to be followed up by policy and confidence measures. Humanitarian, political and security issues are inextricably linked. They interact and reinforce each other. Knowledge and analysis of local conditions and the dynamics of conflict are prerequisites for the design of effective support. At one time, 200 private organisations were involved in Rwanda. This was clear to many actors. It was intended to prevent effective coordination of relief work. Serious violations of humanitarian and refugee law are serious threats to the security of relief workers. If humanitarian aid organisations remain alone in the field, the consequences can be tragic. The integrity of the aid is compromised, and it can have unintended negative effects. The international humanitarian system and assistance organisations are poorly equipped to tackle the transition from emergency aid to longer-term sustainable development. To avoid repetition of such errors, good humanitarian preparedness systems and a completely different international coordination of relief efforts are required. It must be the results that count, not the flags. For this reason, we in Norway have strongly opposed the lack of coordination and trends in rivalry between the various aid actors. There is a need for international leadership and new mechanisms in the coordination of humanitarian aid – a leadership covering all international, bilateral and voluntary actors. At the discretion of the Government, only the United Nations can undertake such a task. The UN reforms in 1997 reorganised humanitarian work and established a new and more effective Humanitarian Coordination Office – OCHA. Developments have gone in the right direction since then, not least as a result of pressure from donors — where Norway has been in the first place. But we have to get further. In Afghanistan, efforts have been made to translate the needs for increased cooperation into practical action. After 18 years of humanitarian work in the country, a strategic framework has been developed under the direction of the UN. Together with the main donors — and non-governmental organisations — a platform for humanitarian aid was developed in the context of development policy objectives and the policy processes for peace and reconciliation. Experience from the Afghanistan model is promising. Coordination is also good in Congo and Angola. We need to establish a locally adapted common framework for all humanitarian operations. The aim must be common strategies, ensuring that the assistance provides the best possible results for the people and communities affected by deep-seated conflicts and disasters, including in the long term. Therefore, the strategies must involve joint planning and a view of humanitarian aid and long-term action in the context. They must include initiatives to promote reconciliation, democratic development and respect for human rights while the conflict is still under way. They must counteract uneven distribution of all relief measures. They must include political and security policy issues. They must be set up in such a way as to support policy initiatives for peace. This must become an integral part of the international community’s response to major crisis situations. As the UN increases its capacity to develop comprehensive strategies to coordinate international humanitarian efforts, the Government will consider giving the UN a greater place in Norwegian humanitarian aid. The number of actors in the international humanitarian arena has doubled in the 1990s. More UN organisations than before engage in humanitarian activities, regional cooperation organisations have built competences for humanitarian aid efforts, and voluntary organisations have increased. This is mainly a positive development because it has given the humanitarian system a greater capacity. However, it has also increased attention to the place and role of voluntary organisations in humanitarian work. The cooperation of the Norwegian authorities with non-governmental organisations has become very extensive – both in terms of the proportion of assistance passed through organisations and in terms of the breadth of cooperation areas. In particular, the five major aid organisations play a key role in humanitarian aid. The ‘Norwegian model’ has become a term for the close but informal and flexible form of cooperation developed between the authorities and non-governmental organisations. The term refers not only to cooperation on humanitarian aid, but also to close cooperation on peace and reconciliation processes, where organisations’ local knowledge and good contacts can be combined with the involvement of authorities and inter-partnership. Guatemala is an example of this. In 1976 the great earthquake in Guatemala gave rise to a massive international aid effort. Then the civil war had been going on for 15 years. After the worst damage had been remedied, Norwegian non-governmental organisations continued auxiliary work in the country. Their networks later played a significant role in the peace process, including: by communicating the initial contacts between the guerrilla and the government side, at the start of the negotiations with the so-called Oslo Agreement and in the implementation of the peace process itself until the final peace agreement on Guatemala in 1996. Then the war had lasted 36 years. War costs, and it's usually the poorest who pay the most. Therefore, the reconciliation work is difficult. But the peace process continues through the implementation of the peace agreement and support for social and economic development, not least from the Norwegian side. Close cooperation between organisations and Norwegian authorities remains very important. Norwegian non-governmental organisations have made outstanding efforts for needy people over many years. They will continue to be key partners of the Norwegian authorities in international relief work. It is positive that voluntary organisations themselves have developed codes of conduct or standards to ensure the quality of relief work. Here, neutrality is a requirement. For some organisations, however, genuine solidarity requires a political choice. Here, there may be different assessments in the current situation. However, it is essential that a work is complementary and in consultation with the UN-led international framework. Cooperation between authorities and organisations needs to be constantly adapted to the needs. With respect for the specific nature and independence of voluntary organisations, those involved must organise their work after the increased international coordination of humanitarian operations for which we are working, even when this requires common funding mechanisms. There is therefore a growing need for more predictable appropriations from the department. In particular, for those organisations receiving large grants, the Government will seek forms of agreement that can both increase predictability and ensure the need for flexibility in new crisis situations. For organisations involved in both humanitarian and long-term development, it is important that this be seen in a context that is also in relation to the overall grants from the Ministry. Noreps, the Norwegian humanitarian response system, was established in 1991. The aim was to increase Norwegian capacity to deliver goods, services and personnel to humanitarian operations at short notice. The scheme involves close cooperation between the authorities, the aid organisations and the Norwegian business community. At the same time, the aim has been to promote the export of Norwegian supplies to international relief organisations. For the Government, it is imperative that the contributions from the ‘Norwegian model’ remain high quality, are cost-effective and use and develop local capacity in developing countries where possible. One has to get the most out of each krona, and as far as possible based on solutions that have sustainability over time, i.e. with a local starting point. I therefore asked for an independent review last year to investigate whether the current NOREPS system complies with these objectives. The report will now be finalised. In the light of the report, the Government will review possible changes to ensure that the NOREPS system and other Norwegian contributions in this area operate in line with the overall objectives of Norwegian humanitarian aid and increased international coordination of humanitarian operations. In order to achieve better results in humanitarian aid, we need to go deeper into the causes of the conflicts and disasters – and be more effective in tackling the dilemmas and constraints. One of them is the prioritisation of resources. Humanitarian aid often follows media attention and CNN spotlights. People require quick action when the media light up their suffering. When the lights turn off, a lot is forgotten. But in the same way that we have to be there quickly when crises arise, we also have to be ready to be when media interest decreases. Nevertheless — the humanitarian imperative of helping where needed and, where necessary, not always as strongly expressed in the donor community as a whole. All of us must give priority to limited resources. However, historical ties, geographical proximity and strategic interests are often influenced where resources go. Two positive examples of mobilising massive solidarity in difficult situations are the response to the disaster in Central America before Christmas and the continued donor effort in Bosnia. Worse still, other crises are 'forgotten'. They're going to be "invisible." Resource availability is decreasing, not least in some African countries where media focus is no longer present. We were all shaken by the massacre of 45 people in Kosovo. Corresponding daily incidents in other conflict areas receive no attention, nor the massacre in the recent Democratic Republic of Congo, where 1,000 people were killed. We can't allow anyone's distress to be forgotten. We need to make better use of resources and make more people contribute. Increased efficiency could also provide increased assistance. I think we have to face up to the fact that we can hardly meet all humanitarian needs ourselves. That is why we need to improve cooperation and coordination so that the international community can respond properly to the overall humanitarian challenges. The government will prioritise efforts in areas that do not receive the international attention it deserves. For 30 years we have given humanitarian aid to Sudan. It's a long time. In Afghanistan, we have been contributing for 20 years. It's also a long time. Is it possible to draw a limit between what is long and what is too long? On a humanitarian and solidarity basis, I believe that we cannot. But we need to use more instruments at the same time and do it in a strategic way. In the discussion on emergency aid, questions have often been raised as to whether we are extending the war. The food aid we give, saturated a lot of mouths. Is it the soldiers too? And the warlords? Are the refugees without shelters getting our blankets, or do armed cadres sleep better at night? In short, does our humanitarian contributions enable the recipients to prioritize their own resources, to keep the conflict going? We have to do what we can to avoid such unintended effects. But we can't operate in difficult conflict situations without taking risks, to reach people in extreme distress? Furthermore, it is a growing recognition that humanitarian aid can also have other unintended consequences. It can create new social conflict lines. Food aid can weaken people's own ability to handle themselves. Long-term relief can make people dependent on outside support. Nor can it solve a crisis situation alone without being followed up by political initiatives. Emergency aid itself rarely resolves the violence. We must recognise that the scope of humanitarian aid is limited. This is particularly evident where the source of distress is politically conditional, either in the form of exploitation of natural resources or as a result of armed violence. Emergency aid can make things worse if we do not also address the starting point of distress and structural problems. The government wants to address these problems. This includes, inter alia: the willingness to work to resolve conflicts through policy initiatives. This is the background to my commitment to the Sudan conflict. It involves better international coordination, better planning of operations and the deliberate targeting of actions. This is why Norway is taking the lead in coordination work in Afghanistan. When humanitarian presence persists over time, it acts, among other things, by: on the attitude to the use of local forces, to fine-tune a sound for shades in local assumptions. We must build the capacity of the community to resist brutalization. We can look for traditions that strengthen respect for human integrity. We can work objectively through various measures to break down fear and distrust between individuals and groups. We can support networks that will overcome inequality, build civil society. We can prevent new violence by giving conflict-oriented weapons donors an opportunity to choose something else. If one is to succeed in creating the basis for a lasting peace solution, it must be taken into account the feeling of injustice that led to violence taking place. Evaluation and systematic learning of experience are also crucial to meeting the challenges we face. A large international evaluation of the response in Rwanda provided a great deal of knowledge. Other evaluations of humanitarian aid provide a comprehensive positive assessment of the efforts of Norwegian organisations to alleviate hunger, distress and suffering. Most of our assistance to Sudan has been in the form of humanitarian aid through Norwegian organisations. An evaluation calls for a more comprehensive approach to Sudan. This has been taken by the Government. The conflict in Sudan has become the most prolonged war in the African continent, and it has suffered considerable regional overtones. The humanitarian situation is now more unpredictable than ever and can be developed very quickly. Respect for human rights is approaching the zero point. Hunger has become a weapon on all sides of the conflict. Despite the in-depth knowledge of the landscape and the insight into the political dynamics of Sudan, the results of our humanitarian efforts have largely remained local. There is no power to find measures that have been able to reverse the tragic course of conflict. There's a lot of reasons for this. However, the foremost one seems to be that none of the contentious parties has so far reached a point where they realise that negotiations on peace are the only dangerous solution. But we're not going to give up. The international community needs to put greater pressure on the parties. For more than four years, several of the countries of the regional cooperation organisation IGAD have tried to create a basis for a peaceful solution in Sudan. Central donor countries have supported these peace efforts through their own Sudan Committee in the IGAD Partners Forum. I am in charge of this work. As a result, Norway must now have a temporary representative in Sudan, under our embassy in Cairo. On Saturday morning, I travel to Sudan and Nairobi to have new talks with the parties to the conflict on the peace process with my Italian colleague. I would therefore like to give the Stortinget an update of the humanitarian situation in the country on 4 February. I will now take the premise of the Government's humanitarian aid strategy. For too long there has been talk of development and distress as if there were two separate phenomena, distance in time. First trouble, then development. And similar in terms of our assistance: first emergency aid, then development cooperation. Gradually, the constraints associated with such a perspective have become quite obvious. The reality – how I like it, among other things. have tried to describe it in this statement — showing that such a way of thinking does not last. Now it's time we left this two-part perspective, this artificial division. We have to take from the obvious fact that the two concepts of ‘development’ and ‘necessity’ actually describe only two different features of a social process. Evolution traditionally describes the positive, the growth and the progress. Distress describes the negative and the decline. Everywhere, we find elements of both. By combating distress, we are promoting development. And by supporting the positive elements, promoting development, we're actually also fighting the need. What we now need is a new approach, where all measures are seen as pieces, as building blocks, as part of a whole. Among the most important are the work of peace and reconciliation. That means we have to think about long-term development in everything we do. Our efforts may vary in length and in other ways; from an air slip with food to people in acute need to long-term programmes for institutional development. All of this has to be part of a long-term thinking. We can't set up an emergency one day, and then beat their hand the next. In many places, not least in Africa, people live in an almost permanent disaster situation. This applies in areas affected by drought and in war-torn societies. In such vulnerable contexts, it is particularly important that humanitarian and developmental efforts go hand in hand. We must contribute to political solutions, while at the same time relieving distress. We must uphold human rights and repatriate their human dignity where it is broken down. We must support the emergence of robust civil societies. Humanitarian aid will hopefully be short-lived, but is absolutely necessary to provide the basis for solving long-term problems. Long-term development cooperation may be necessary for a lasting reduction of vulnerability to both natural disasters and violent conflicts. Education is another basic building block, a fundamental investment in human resources. Education can help to consolidate norms and values that can prevent and mitigate violent conflict. This is always important and crucial when societies are to rise from violence. We need to ensure children and young people access to education even when they are experiencing conflict. This will help to improve the living conditions of individuals and, in addition, to provide a basis for development, to dampen population growth, to combat child labour and child soldiers, and not least to contribute to increased participation and to strengthen democratic development. By focusing on education, we can achieve more development goals at the same time. Better knowledge can also reduce the burden on the environment, and it can promote understanding and tolerance. All of this is important to prevent conflicts and disasters. The government will strengthen its efforts in this area. Our efforts must be based on a broad perspective. We have to be flexible in our way of helping. We must primarily aim to help solve the underlying causes of poverty and distress, and not limit ourselves to relieving the symptoms. This could be done, for example, by: This means that we must contribute to political solutions or economic reforms, while at the same time relieving acute distress. In other words, more parallel bets. In addition, we need to look at our efforts in relation to what others contribute. In this context, it is important that there be an approach in the way and perspective of humanitarian organisations and those engaged in traditional development cooperation. Development-oriented organisations and development banks are often characterised by too slow and inflexible planning and decision-making processes. The humanitarian actors act quickly, but place too little emphasis on coherence, long-term sustainability and sustainability. On both sides, there is too much focus on mandates and too little on actual needs and on individual organisations’ merits. There is a need for a more proactive and creative approach to rehabilitation and reconstruction. Reconciliation promotion and local capacity strengthening must be central. The effort must be based on local ownership and ensure participation by relevant groups. In particular, emphasis must be placed on drawing with the most vulnerable and marginalised groups of the population. Only in this way can democracy be built and peace and stability ensured. This means that we need to help solve the funding gap that exists internationally in such post-conflict situations. This is a challenge for the entire international donor community, where development banks, in particular, need to be involved. Above all, we must not forget that prevention is better than repair. Early warning systems are important. Distress always has a cause. If we can help reduce or eliminate the cause of distress, we will not only save many people from unfathomable suffering, we will also save a lot of resources. Preventing conflicts and other crises, identifying potential new conflicts or preventing a broken peace agreement from collapsing and leading to a new conflict involve work on many fronts, from intergovernmental negotiations, on peace and reconciliation work to development. Much of what I've already mentioned can be seen in such a context. But there are also other important elements. Consolidating a political culture that can prevent violent conflict is crucial. This can be achieved by assisting in the development of anti-interest standards, rules and institutions without arms. We know, for example. that a well-developed democratic system of governance and rule of law have a mitigation effect on the political relationship between people and between states. This underlines the importance of providing the basis for a ‘good governance’ in conflict-affected countries. This applies as far as possible both in the course of the conflict and at the end of the conflict. Here one has to take account of specific local assumptions. Not least, it is important to stabilise a peace settlement. A good set of rules is one that has a high degree of legitimacy. It is inclusive, flexible and capable of adapting to new conditions, tasks and challenges. It encourages the participation of an active civil society. It promotes values such as pluralism, tolerance, negotiation and compromise. In other words, it is the best tool for conflict prevention. We also need to focus on social and economic bias and the weapons that increase repression and insecurity. Therefore, action against anti-personnel mines and small arms is important. Their insecurity can make humanitarian aid impossible and make long-term aid work difficult. The Government is actively working for international follow-up to the Convention on the Prohibition of Antipersonnel Mines and to improve the control of small arms. Together with Canada, we lead the international work on the small arms side. This is part of the so-called Lysøen cooperation between Canada and Norway on humanitarian and human security issues. Even natural disasters make a difference between people, poor and rich. Despite a much higher number of natural disasters on the American continent than in Africa in the period 1961-91, African disasters claimed 15 times more lives. In other words, the effects of disasters are linked to poverty problems. I mentioned in the beginning that we have a new disaster scene. Natural disasters are increasing in number and extent. The reasons for this are many. In part, it can be due to climate change, on the one hand to population growth and to increasing poverty on the other. Industrial development and commercial exploitation of natural resources are also important factors. Poverty-related assistance and efforts in the environmental field can help prevent or reduce such damage, and thus also the need for humanitarian efforts. The government will contribute to this. At the same time, if we succeed in our goal of reducing poverty, securing human rights, promoting a good governance and people's participation in decisions relating to them, we have provided a good basis for reducing violent conflicts and the extent of natural disasters. We need to use all the tools we have to contribute to this. Often we have to do things in parallel, as we do, among other things. in Central America recently. Both emergency and debt relief were necessary to help in an efficient and long-term way. Processes for a more coordinated and integrated approach are under way internationally. Talks I have had include: with the World Bank President James Wolfensohn and the leaders of several UN organisations, clearly indicate that someone is now going from word to action in this area. We can face a paradigm shift in international aid. I will now present a strategy for humanitarian aid in ten points: 1st@item: inlistbox Norwegian humanitarian aid is based on international humanitarian law, refugee law and human rights, as enshrined in internationally binding conventions. – We will work to strengthen the integrity of humanitarian aid and the security of relief workers, both in international forums and against governments and other actors in conflict areas. "We will actively contribute to better international coordination in cases where difficult balances need to be made between humanitarian, political and human rights considerations. 2nd@item: inlistbox Norwegian humanitarian aid shall remain at a high level. Increased resources for new needs will be sought mobilised."We want to get more results for each krona by stepping up efforts to improve the quality, efficiency and coordination of humanitarian aid."We will make an active effort to attract countries that do not contribute adequately, in global resource mobilization."We will contribute to better integrated and more effective efforts to prevent natural and man-made disasters.3. Norway will work for greater efficiency and better coordination in international humanitarian efforts."We will contribute to the further development of emergency systems and increase the capacity for rapid response to crisis signals."We will work for increased coordination at all levels – in the field, between headquarters and at the capital level, using financial resources catalytically and even going ahead with a good example through uncompromising support for good coordination initiatives."We will contribute strategically with political and financial support for increased UN coordination of humanitarian aid, including: under the auspices of the UN Humanitarian Coordinator, OCHA. Norway will continue its driving role in the UN reform process."We want further improvements in the apparatus for joint emergency and strategic humanitarian aid frameworks, and Norway will work to ensure that other countries and non-governmental organisations can be closely coordinated through these coordination mechanisms.4. Norway will be at the forefront of a fully integrated approach to humanitarian aid, peace and reconciliation and development. An example of this is the Lysøen cooperation with Canada and other similar countries.– We will consider possible budgetary changes in the management of Norwegian humanitarian aid. A more integrated approach requires this. This may include, inter alia: need more flexible use of regional appropriations.5. We will give high priority to the prevention of conflicts and the consolidation of fragile peace through strategic work for peace, reconciliation and conflict resolution."We will continue to make effective use of the opportunities for peace and reconciliation initiatives provided by the comprehensive Norwegian humanitarian effort."We will be active drivers for the further development of various strategic frameworks that provide direction for and integrate humanitarian aid and policy initiatives for peace and reconciliation."We will work for the effective implementation of the Convention against Anti-personnel Mines, and further develop international initiatives against the use of arms and the use of child soldiers in war." We will give high priority to the prevention of conflicts and disasters and the consolidation of fragile peace through a deliberate poverty-oriented effort on education, the environment and democracy."We will assess our own new initiatives on how education can be used more strategically to prevent conflict and consolidate peace."We will work for more strategic efforts to prevent environmental problems, as the partially man-made flood disasters in China and Central America demonstrate the need."In the spring of 1999, we will develop a plan to streamline our support for democracy in the south and use democracy support more consciously in the peace and reconciliation work." We will contribute to the development of new funding mechanisms that fill the critical funding gap between emergency aid and more long-term efforts."We will contribute catalytically, through rapid response to the creation of debt funds as in the case of ‘Mitch’ and other situation-specific funding mechanisms, and critically assess the need for more permanent solutions. “We will evaluate our own initiatives internationally for donor cooperation where developing banks have a more central role to play.8. We will further develop the ‘Norwegian model’ of humanitarian aid through greater efficiency and closer integration into global humanitarian efforts.– We want the voluntary organisations to continue to be key actors in Norwegian humanitarian aid, provided that high efficiency and willingness to integrate closely into global coordination.– We will review the management of support through voluntary organisations with a view to providing organisations with greater predictability and better opportunities to provide a long-term perspective for humanitarian efforts.– We will adjust the NOREPS system in the light of the report that is soon to come, with a focus on greater efficiency through international competition and increased use of local and regional resources.9. Strengthening local capacity and ownership shall be a central premise in all Norwegian assistance, including humanitarian efforts."We will contribute to the provision of humanitarian aid with a stronger right anchoring where the recipients are not only victims but also a resource."We will contribute to raising awareness of the increased use of local resources in all Norwegian humanitarian aid channels, including NOREPS.10. Norwegian humanitarian efforts are and should be rooted in the moral imperative to help and protect people in distress and solidarity with those in need."We must strive for a universal approach to humanitarian crises. People in distress, wherever they may be, must have equal rights to humanitarian aid – we will pay particular attention to a solidarity memory when the media's lightning falls, and contribute to raising forgotten conflicts and victims in the light. This may be our most important challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21.ana.ud899e426	The President proposes that the Minister for Development and Human Rights' statement on humanitarian aid be discussed at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21.ana.ud899e432	We have come to Case No. 2 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21.ana.ud899e442	There is no record. On the other hand, it is distributed in the seats of the representatives of the European Parliament, a document which has been handed over to the European Parliament today. The President noted that he would propose that this document be referred to at a later meeting. – It is considered biphasic.
