ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e97	The representative of Terje Johansen, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e105	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e110	I propose Aud Blattmann and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e115	Aud Blattmann and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt are proposed as chairpersons of today's meeting. – Other proposals are not available, and Aud Blattmann and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt are unanimously elected as chairmen. Before the proceedings are brought, the President will propose that the Storting should depart from the provision of the first paragraph of Section 43 of the Rules of Procedure and make a total vote after that date. 1 and 2 have been completed, and then total voting according to case No. 3-11 at the end of the day. No objection has been raised against the President's proposal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e131	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Advance Party, Christian People's Party and Right 15 minutes each, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party, Left and Representative Bastisen 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose to allow for the replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the contributions of the main speakers from each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e142	Today's budget debate is taking place at the same time as the municipalities put their last hand in their budgets for the next year. There are many municipal politicians who don't know how to find the money they need to offer their citizens good enough welfare services, and at a price that people can pay. The parent payment for e.g. kindergarten and school leisure are on the way up, which allows us in some municipalities to distinguish which children can and which children cannot avail themselves of these important offers. Many of our schools also need a promise, but because of the need for community economics, we see that schools are threatened instead by closure. The situation at our hospital is another example. This is worrying, and it comes at the same time that we are informed that last year was the worst year of ten years in terms of deficits in the municipalities. For various reasons, municipalities have accumulated a deficit of NOK 6.7 billion, and if we do not take this situation seriously, there will be fewer and more expensive welfare services for the population. Now we have to sit down together and find ways to solve this. I am glad that in the budgetary agreement with the central parties there has been a break-up of the Workers' Party's claim for NOK 1 billion more to the municipalities next year. The majority of this comes as free money and is absolutely necessary for municipalities to afford to pay their own debts and, among other things, to pay for them. to be able to invest more in school. But we have to move on that way, and I am therefore pleased that there is also a unanimous committee asking for the Government to review and evaluate the income system for the local government sector. This must include, inter alia: emphasis is placed on explaining the economic impact it has had on municipalities that parts of the Rattsø Committee's proposals have been implemented in relation to what was foreseen in 1997. This review should be presented during the spring of 2000, because, in addition to the fact that it is quite obvious that the local government sector needs more money, it is also important to look at how the money is distributed. A lot indicates that we have not received the distribution that was intended, and then we have to go through this in an open and prejudiced way. In this context, we are also asking for a review of the allocation of discretionary funds. I would also like to mention another proposal we are making, namely that we want a comprehensive review of the compensation scheme for particularly resource-intensive users, with a view to making the scheme even more predictable and accurate. We also ask that the Government investigate a state top finance scheme and come back to Stortinget with it in the spring. It is good that the government has proposed a scheme for next year, where municipalities with many resource-intensive users can get something extra from the state. But based on the signals we've received from a lot of municipalities, there's a lot of evidence that the system, as it's now set up, is not very accurate in terms of reaching those we really want to reach. We believe that the criteria are too clear and too unclear, and we believe that there is a need for clarification and a tightening. To be senilement should, for example, be not be a criterion for inclusion in this scheme. The goal must be that the users who need it most will get the help they need. Then there must be some extra assistance from the state, but it must be like a predictable system. That is why it is very interesting to investigate a state top-level funding scheme, precisely in order to meet those who need it the most. The majority has previously agreed to the trial where 20 municipalities would try to include several earmarked grants and use them as free resources. Signals we have received from several of the municipalities that are involved in this indicate that the municipalities have so far received less money to decide about than what was suggested to them when they applied to join the trial, and therefore it is underlined in the setting that the Storting expects the trial to be real, and that one expects the council to deal with this, so that it becomes a purpose of the experiment. Let me then move on to another important point, namely our integration policy. Many suggest that it is a good part of the policy that does not work well enough. Many recent events indicate that there is a need for more coordination and a better system. It is an unsustainable situation that almost 14 000 people are in reception. Too many remain there for too long, unfortunately some also under critical conditions. We have to make sure that our new countrymen come into activity and work instead of being in reception without having anything to do with the month after month and someone actually for years. The worst thing for them is to remain passive on an asylum reception, while also for society the worst and most expensive solution. That is why we in the Government Committee ask that we review all aspects of our asylum, immigration and integration policies and come back on a case-by-case basis, like a big message. There the government has to look at what's the bottlenecks in the system. Why does the procedure in many cases take as long as it actually does? Why do the settlements in the municipalities go so slowly? And is e.g. the compensation schemes existing for asylum-seekers, for residence in municipalities and for Norwegian training for adult asylum-seekers well enough? I don't think so, and here the state has a considerable responsibility. I think we can get the best solutions for our refugees, asylum seekers and immigrants in an interaction between the state, municipalities and others involved, not by one party forcing the other. We are also asking in particular for a review of the situation of lone minor asylum seekers and refugees, many of whom are now in our reception. There has recently been a great deal of difference. Is it e.g. Does it make sense to place as many minors together in one place, as is now the case in some of our municipalities? Is the competence of those who are set to follow up the lone minors always good enough? What are the offers they get? And what about those who disappear? Who is responsible for following them? There is reason to question the system when we can read that single minors have disappeared from asylum recipients, and that cases have been closed without one being sure of where the children have gone or if there has been any support for them. This isn't good enough, this has to be cleaned up. We have a responsibility to integrate our new countrymen properly, and we're not good enough at it today. We also need to use non-traditional instruments here. It has, among other things, show that if you receive language training at the same time as you are working, you will learn a language more quickly. This should be done in a nationwide arrangement as soon as possible. It would be a cheap investment for society. And if there's money on it, the government gets to the Storting and ask for more money. If there are other things, we'll be told. If we do not succeed in the process of integration, it will give rise to increased racism. We have to do everything we can to avoid that, because all people are equally worth it. And it would only be lacking if we, as one of the richest countries in the world, were to help people from other countries who need an outstretched hand. If the integration work doesn't work well enough, we're doing both those things, and society's a bear service. Therefore, it should be in everyone's interest that we get cleaned up in this. Let me then fix an error in the setting, as unfortunately it has become an error on page 21, column 2, last sentence. Here the majority shall be addressed to the Committee and the sentence shall be replaced by the following: ‘In this context, the Committee will make the following proposals:’ It is therefore an overall committee which supports the proposal at the top of page 22 on the review and evaluation of asylum, immigration and integration policies. Finally, I would like to address the proposal that has been distributed in the Chamber on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e176	The representative Sylvia Brustad has taken up the suggestion she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e181	The representative of Sylvia Brustad pointed out that it is an important objective of the Workers' Party to strengthen the local economy in all possible ways. And through the budgetary cooperation with the government parties, the Workers' Party had a good opportunity to do just that, but it all ended up with a symbol addition on notices of 0.3 pst. in the free resources. One might wonder if the Workers' Party believes that 0.3 pst. increase means strengthening the local economy, if it would not be much more useful to strengthen the local economy by improving the efficiency of municipalities. I would challenge the representative Sylvia Brustad to explain what is the best proposal of the Workers' Party to streamline Norwegian municipalities. Does she consider postponing competition to be a current strategy to streamline Norwegian municipalities? It's not just about spending more money, as the employee's representative gave the impression. It is possible to create financial resources for Norwegian municipalities in other ways. Reorganisation and restructuring, not least on the operational side. Then it's important to have good suggestions from the other parties as well. The Progress Party has its proposals for postponing competition, which we claim will significantly improve the efficiency of Norwegian municipalities, but other parties have not yet – they usually come after us – adhered to our proposals. Therefore, I ask the representative Sylvia Brustad to explain what is the best proposal of the Workers' Party to streamline Norwegian municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e192	I think it is quite interesting that Andersen, a representative from the Progress Party, is standing here and calling 1 billion kroner plus to the municipalities for symbols. Torbjørn Andersen represents a party that has actually proposed cutting billions of dollars in the municipal sector, which will have to mean reductions in important welfare offers and increased self-payments for the population. That is the reality. I am aware that the Progress Party has a great deal of faith in the outsourcing of competition in the municipalities. The working party does not share the same belief in it. Of course, we are concerned that the public sector, also locally in the municipalities, needs to change and improve in some areas. There's a process we're going to continue. But it's something other than putting off competition in any case. I also believe that with the dramatic situation in which many of our municipalities are now in, with a deficit of almost NOK 7 billion, it is important to provide the municipalities with something more money, while, of course, we have to convert and get even better. The proposal behind a unanimous committee that we now need a review of the entire income system to see if the distribution between municipalities is good enough is also important. So we need more money, we need to see if the distribution is good enough, and we need to convert the public sector. However, the recommendation of the Progress Party, which is on the market at any price, which also means significant reductions in transfers to municipalities, will lead to nothing more than a poorer and more expensive welfare offer. It's the Workers' Party against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e205	I am well-known through the mass media that Sylvia Brustad has taken the initiative in an investigation into the merger of units in Kommune-Norway. For North Norway, it seems completely meaningless. I wonder what is the purpose of this proposal. It seems pointless for the Christian People's Party to go to the conclusion before an investigation has been carried out. A aggregation of e.g. Nordland, Troms and Finnmark in one region require a common identity and culture. North Norway, as a geographical unit, accounts for about half of Norway. What is the Workers' Party want to achieve with such a merger?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e212	In the Labour Party, we believe it is important to have an open and prejudiced debate on how best to organise our local government. We're in a process and we're going to conclude at the country meeting for next year. What I have said in the mass media and elsewhere is, of course, not a conclusion on the part of the Labour Party, but a proposal that is part of that debate. When I have said that I believe that the county councils in their present form have survived themselves, it is for several reasons. Developments across Europe are moving towards more regional thinking. Some of our counties, I think, are simply too small to be able to provide important services to the population. We have e.g. in the case of the hospital sector, regions which are now taking care of it. It works pretty well, and that's why I've said that there could also be other areas where you could think of organizing according to the model of the health regions. That doesn't necessarily mean that it needs to be five. It may be seven, it may be nine, but that's not the main point. The point is, how can we organize our municipalities and counties so that we can provide the best possible service to the people and local democracy? Then I think that one of those things that you should discuss openly and without prejudice is whether we have too many states, whether they're organized in a crazy way, if we have too much double administration – which I think we have. I think we need to cut down on administration and use more people, resources and energy in direct service provision to people. Then one way to do it is you get fewer counties. That doesn't mean the whole of North Norway needs to be one state. There might be two or three there, but that's not the point. We are going to have a debate on this in the Labour Party towards the national meeting, and we are going to conclude there.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e223	The Labour Party and the Municipal Economy are an interesting study. First of all, we have now learned creative accounting, which allows the Right to boast that we have a budget of 600 million. kr better for the municipalities than the government has, if we add all of the earmarked grants that we increase, in the same way that the Labour Party always does when they mention that they have a billion. We think it would have been more neat that they had said that when they increase the grant to the kindergartens, it's because the parental payment is going down, not for municipalities to get better finances, and that therefore it shouldn't have been calculated that way. The second element that is interesting is that the Committee agrees on a proposal to carry out an evaluation of how far we have come in the income system for municipalities in relation to the proposals of the Rattsø Committee and how income development has been. On the other hand, the Labour Party is not in the process of pointing to the main element that makes the municipalities that thought they were going to win on Rattsø not winning, namely the loss compensation scheme. The loss compensation scheme, which today allows the municipalities that used the old system – but not based on objective criteria – to continue to win on the system even though they have not had a population structure basis to do so, is a genuine child of the Workers' Party's lack of willingness to cut through when the income system was involved in the treatment of the Council Sea Committee's suspension. Now that we have a new evaluation, will the compromise which the Labour Party made with regard to its comments that no one should lose on the introduction of the Rattsø be the guiding principle of the Workers' Party in the future? Because it's not the case with redistribution that it's possible to do better for someone without others getting a little bit worse. Is the principle of the Workers' Party that no one should lose, still at work? Then it's really no use getting a status for the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e232	Let me first say that when we talk about the transfers to the municipalities, it's right and fair that a person both takes into account what is called free means, and what is earmarked means, in order to get a proper picture of the situation. In that case, at least the agreement we have agreed with the center parties will mean approx. So let's add 1 billion. When it comes to the issue of the income system, I think it's clear from the setting what the Workers' Party thinks about it, and also from the committee proposal that we agree on, where we are asking for a review of this. When we do that, it's because, like other parties, we have a clear suspicion that those who were going to win after Rattsø have not been. Therefore, there is also a need to look closely at whether this has been the case when we implemented parts of the Rattsø Committee's setting. So we are asking the Government to investigate this, and therefore, of course, we will not conclude on the individual elements of this case until the Government has determined it, and come back with a review and a proposal for the Storting next spring. This is very important for the municipalities, and not least for the people who live in the municipalities we are talking about here. There is no doubt that when we agree with this proposal, we think that we probably do not have the distribution between the municipalities that were meant to, and that is why we also want to have a change. What that means by individual parts and suggestions, we have to come back after the government has done its job, and after we see what it's proposing, and then we see what the result is.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e241	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e245	In recent years, we have seen that the local economy has become weak, claiming representatives from both the government party and the Labour Party. In recent years, it has also been shown that the local government sector has been getting more and more money. We can go back to a budget settlement that I understood that I didn't like so much, but where today's government party got by strengthening the municipal economy with x billions of dollars. Nevertheless, we are still told that the local economy is poor, and that he is getting worse, and it will become increasingly worse if the Stortinget does not allow more money. As I see it, it turns out that the more money we allow, the worse it goes. Then we politicians might have to ask ourselves the question, do we do that wrong? Do we have a system that doesn't work? Can we turn the system around a little bit, think of new ways of distributing the funds and giving the municipalities incomes, so that they get growth? Because it's not that it makes sense to waste good money after bad money. This usually means that all the money is going to be bad. That's why I think we need to think about something new. That is also why the Progress Party agrees with the proposal to go through the income system again to see if there is a new way to go. And I dare say that the economic structure of the Progress Party will give the municipalities an economic free trade that can be significantly strengthened in relation to the free trade offered by the other parties. The Progress Party’s economic policy will contribute to increased employment, it will contribute to increased value creation and thus increase tax access to municipalities. This will extend the tax base, and one can continue to have a low tax level, rather than doing as some other party would like, simply narrow the tax base and then increase the tax level. The business must have access to fund provisions and to take care of its own values that it has created, instead of taxing the businesses as much as possible, drag the money into Oslo, and then distribute them again as mild gifts. I believe that if the enterprises and the individual are kept as much as possible by the value creation itself, these funds will increase and be put back into value creation, which means that the municipal sector will receive income. There is no doubt that there is a potential for savings in the municipal sector between 15 and 20 pst. The representative, Sylvia Brustad, said that we wanted to cut down so much on the public sector – the municipal sector. Yes, in nominal dollars, we suggest a reduction of approximately NOK 3 billion in the municipal sector. That's 1.75 pst. of the total income of the municipalities. We know that other countries have tried to streamline and rationalise municipal operations through competitive outsourcing and competitive stimulation, and when one has a saving potential of between 15 and 20 pst, these 3 billions are not so huge. By combining rationalisation, streamlining and price financing of the vital health, care and education tasks, with the financial responsibility of the State, we are also assured that everyone in this country will have a level playing field when it comes to health, care and education, without regard to the country we live in, and without regard to the municipal economy. What's kind of interesting is that we've gotten the Statistical Central Bureau to figure out what kind of impact our economic structure has on the local government economy. And then it turns out that our financial situation gives the municipalities an increase in income of $2 billion, after we actually cut down on the transfers from the state by $3 billion. It should make some other party think about whether maybe the Progress Party is also right this time in some of the things we're proposing. I can only note that the first party to talk about price financing in care and health was the Progress Party in 1985. Now, almost all of the parties here in the house are in agreement with that, it's maybe just the Socialist Left Party holding on to its conservative model, and that's okay enough. But everybody's talking about this right now. There will now even be input-driven funding in some other areas as well. We have to be clear that it might be wise not to reject everything, but to be willing to think about it new when it turns out that the drug that the plurality in this room has been using at least as long as I have been here in the house – I was just enough out for four years, but I have the impression by following in the media that it was the same medicine that was also used in the period 1993-97 – that a mere increase in transfers within a system that is probably wrong does not work. That's why it's so important that we evaluate the system, see if this is right, and we're willing to think again. There must be something of the most important thing we politicians can do, and that one tries to see if there are other ways to do things than the way we swear to today. That is why I think it is important that a person opens up to think about something new, then one might be willing to look at the bureaucracy too, which prevents efficiency, that one today has no ability and freedom of choice to create business, that one is hindering investment, etc. I'm also glad that the committee is willing to look at this with immigration, and that one sees that things start to accumulate in such a way that there are unworthy states in a country like Norway, and it shouldn't be. I hope that maybe even the plural here in the hall will see that it would be a good idea to think about whether we're taking in too many immigrants so that we can manage to pursue an integration policy that is of human dignity. Having an integration policy where we take care of individuals must be our goal. And then I think we might, in a society like Norway, take in too many. I just want to ask the state council to follow closely, as the committee writes in a comitology note, when this is the case with nursing homes and nursing homes, and that he evaluates the situation when it comes to nursing homes and nursing homes, so we don't get the biased distribution we're afraid we're going to get. Finally, I would like to address the suggestions in the setting that we have with the Right, and the suggestions that we have on our own.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e266	Lodve Solholm has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e271	There was a lot of talk about the excellent municipal policy of the Progress Party and a lot about economics. What is the reality is that the Progress Party in this budget cuts gross at NOK 11.6 billion to the municipalities. It is in the budget of the Progress Party. They have a way of explaining this so that the net number is going to be NOK 4 billion, not NOK 3 billion that Lodve Solholm is trying to say all the time. The figure is closer to 4 billion than 3 billion dollars. They contribute in percent higher taxpayers, and it amounts to 4 billion kroner. There will be a division of disparities in Norway, this will benefit the rich municipalities, and the poor will get worse out. That's one way to think about it. Then the Progress Party is adding SEK 2.8 billion to effort-driven funding, and then they're going to get to this with the dynamic effect in the municipalities. They estimate that this scheme will provide lower price and cost increases. If we cut the price by half a percentage point, it's 100 to 200 million. kr, and if we cut the interest rate by 1 pst, that's approx. 450 million. kr. After all, we're missing 3.3 billion to get up to 4 billion, even though we've cut a little bit at the price level and a little bit at the interest rate. What he doesn't mention with a single word in his post is district policy. They want to cut SEK 1.3 billion to SND, cut off the government tool, cut down EUR 6 billion in agricultural transfers, cut off the freight balancing, cut off the shipbuilding sector – that is, all of what Lodve Solholm calls dynamic effects, I have a lot of problems. I would therefore like to hear from the representative Lodve Solholm about the Progress Party at all.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e276	I have a lot of understanding that Leif Lund doesn't appreciate me talking about the Progress Party, but it's now time for me to talk about the Progress Party and the Party's forward from the features. Leif Lund is talking about $11.6 billion and our calculation method. I'd like to agree that it was about 3 1⁄2 billion kroner. But the point is: it's not the Progress Party that has calculated and found the dynamic impact of our policies, with lower wage and price costs, it's actually the Central Bureau that has calculated it. And if the Central Statistical Bureau had calculated some figures for the Labour Party, I think he would have used them, too, of your agency as important as this is, has a certain trust in the political environment. So these numbers show our dynamic policy. So to this with district policy. Yes, now we have from the political point of view, not least from what is the great majority in this room, listening to all the misery in the districts, about deportation, etc., and that business doesn't get money. Yet, the same number of millions/billion dollars have been poured into transfers, and in what way – they have taxed the businesses out in the districts, brought the funds into central struts in Oslo, into the government quarter, and then one has handed them out that after one has spent a pot of money in the administration to take the money into taxes and public intervention and to give them back to those who had to spend it. What we say in the Progress Party is: let the values stay where they've been created, simply out in the districts, out in the businesses, in the individual people. It'll be a district policy that will make people want to move back to the districts and get bent there.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e287	Quite often, the Progress Party and the Right are on the same side of the policy, in order to understand that we are voting, not so rarely, on the same proposal. We have the same best wishes for Christmas and the new year in view of the competitive outsourcing of municipal services. But the Progress Party is extra fascinating many times, not so they can hold the storm, but they often define a new world tomorrow, as we heard in the previous line. And I'll keep going a little bit on the same theme. So this price and consumption effect of the Advance Party's budget proposal is going to turn this cut of NOK 3.6 billion, as it says, to NOK 2 billion, i.e. NOK 5-6 billion on an annual basis. This is fascinating in itself. But I wonder how much the wage and price fall will be towards the end of the year 2000 after these calculations from the Statistical Central Bureau, which is proof of truth here, precisely because we never get any special first day effect – we don't get any effect on 1 January of this proposal. So it has to be significant, visible figures on the paytable and on the price curve towards the end of the year if the effect is to be 5-6 billion kroner. Does the Central Statistical Office have any details that show this too?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e296	Yes, it's right that the Right joins the Progress Party's policy every now and then. We're going to lead, and then we're going to come to the Right valley after -- and that's good, that's good -- and then the others come. Just do this with the piece-price financing in the health care system, where the Right was the party that first joined it, and then the others came; even the Center Party has actually joined it, and the Council of State has apparently also wanted to increase some ear-tagged excesses when it comes to input-driven funding. When the figures from the Statistical Central Bureau and the Right are presented with DKK 5 to 6 billion as something very, there is probably no more than 2 to 2 1⁄2 pst. Let's turn around. When it comes to the dynamic effect, statistical central agency has also come up with a number of things that show that the total impact on the annual basis of our budget proposal will be that the municipalities will come out about 2 billion dollars better than what is currently in the budget agreement. We wanted to try something new, but I find that the majority in this room is not yet mature to think new, is not willing to think new. I have a belief that the Right will gradually follow up – because we have our premise provider for new political ideas in this country for the last ten years. I dare take that claim.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e305	The Progress Party introduces the concept of customer vis-à-vis the inhabitants of the municipalities. We're no longer going to be users of services, we're going to be customers and buy services. The usual thing is that customers can choose what to buy, and the Progress Party also says several times that freedom of choice and diversity of offers are important. But I think there is a gap in the closing line of the Progress Party when they say in the next breath that it is not satisfactory that there are different priorities in the different municipalities. So they want to facilitate different choices, but not different priorities. The Progress Party also states in its budget setting that ‘local self-government must be strengthened’. However, when we recently debated municipal technical services, the Vorskrittspartiet Torbjørn Andersen said that the Progress Party ‘wants to eliminate the opportunities for politicians to put up different solutions around the country’. Where's the relationship? In my view, such an attitude is incompatible with strengthening local self-government, as the Progress Party says they want. Freedom of choice is the slogan of the Advance Party, but at the same time they do not conceal that they do not respect the fact that municipalities choose different solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e312	Unlike the Center Party, the Progress Party will have the freedom of choice for individuals – that each individual person should have the freedom to choose. But my freedom, of course, stops where the representative of the Gulf of Quail begins. We realize that. What's the point here when we talk about customers, users or residents, is whether we, as an individual, should have the freedom of choice to put on the agenda a lot of things, or whether it's the municipal politicians who want to have the option to impose taxes and taxes on people and take public action. In one municipality, the cost of any service is far higher than that of another municipality, which may guarantee the right to have a service offer corresponding to a zero-cost charge on some services. Are the municipal politicians going to have the freedom to decide what kind of service I as a pensioner, disabled or disabled person should have in this country after paying taxes and taxes, or am I the one who is going to have the option to claim to the public that it is their duty to provide me with an offer? An equal offer, regardless of the municipal economy, independent of the municipal politicians' priorities, regardless of the country I had to live in, is the freedom of choice the Progress Party wants, but as we understand from the representative of Kvalbukt's view that the Senter Party does not want.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e319	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e322	It is with great pleasure that I record that the centre party has managed to obtain multiple numbers for the main features of the government's budget proposal. Within the framework of the central budgetary agreement between the Government Party and the Labour Party, we have made some minor adjustments in the Municipal Committee. All in all, we still see from the setting that we have got a result that has mostly in common with the Government's proposal. As you know, the municipal committee does not deal with the promises of the municipalities in the state budget. However, we note that the priorities set for the finances of the municipalities when we deal with the municipal economicproposition for 2000 are met. Through the budgetary process, we have received a lot of input from different municipalities across the country that find it difficult to connect the economy. This should be a crossroads for us as central politicians. The tasks assigned to the local government sector should be more consistent with the economic resources available to us to feed the local government sector. Nevertheless, I find it natural to stress the Government's aim to facilitate a good economy in the municipal sector. This must be done within a responsible framework in order to avoid uncontrolled price, interest rate and wage growth. If we do not look for responsibility in this area, this will lead to a significantly worse situation for the municipalities. It is natural to note that the decline in the interest rate of the year alone leads to at least 700 million municipalities. kr more to route. In the long term, therefore, it is worth pursuing a responsible economic policy. I would also like to associate some quick comments with the relationship between eartags and free media. We've all noticed that the growth of the local economy comes mainly in the form of ear-marked additions. This is a natural consequence of us keeping the political promises we've given in the Storting. We make a big effort in the care of the elderly, and we follow the action plans in the area of health. This has a side effect - increasing ear markers. It is important to point out that it is not a goal for the center part to increase the ear marking, but it is a goal to reduce it. Therefore, the Government has also said that in the next municipal economic proposition they will come up with proposals to include ear-marked surpluses in the income system. This will help to facilitate real local priorities. The municipality must have a freer position in relation to the economy and legal and regulatory obligations. This will result in less control, the freeing of local resources and more local democracy. In the case of the distribution of discretionary power to the state, the Christian People's Party also supports a review of the guidelines for the territorial distribution of discretionary power in the 2001 municipal economic proposition. It is essential that discretionary means capture specific expenditure needs that are not captured by the cost key. It may also be relevant to re-allocation of discretion between states where today's distribution results in an unfortunate outcome. It has recently been a major debate on the definition of the new zones of payroll. Norway is required by the EFTA Court to abolish the differentiation of employer charges against certain industries. If the scheme is to be adapted to EU rules on transport aid, it may be carried forward. A number of factors have been taken into account for the Government's proposal, which leads to a reduction of the employer's fee for 39 municipalities, while 14 municipalities receive the highest tax rate. The municipalities that have received a higher rate of employer pay have received a strong increase in costs combined with very little time for conversion. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the return of the Government of the revised national budget to the Stortinget with compensatory measures. The budget provides for the continuation of an offensive rural policy. This policy has shown results by reducing the flow towards the central strut in the last year. However, it is important to continue work to counter the centralisation that we have seen in the country in the last generation. Therefore, it is positive that the setting continues to focus on key target groups such as women, youth and immigrants or relocaters and efforts at knowledge-based activities. It is also important to encourage municipalities to compete in the provision of good living conditions. A high degree of centralisation leads to the impoverishment of districts and pressure on the more central areas. This will increase costs in terms of high housing prices and poor service provision in central districts. It is therefore also important for the central strata that we congratulate ourselves on regional policy. The situation in the field of asylum and refugee policy has changed monthly in the last year. Instigation of refugees, etc. from Kosovo has made great demands on the Norwegian receiver. In addition, the Directorate for Foreign Affairs will be responsible for several new tasks in 2000, including: interview asylum seekers when they arrive and facilitate Norwegian association with the Schengen cooperation. This results in the need to increase the permissions of the UDI. In order to achieve the most effective building policy, proposals have been made to increase the integration momentum. In addition, it has been suggested that compensation for host municipalities with government receipts will be increased by 20 pst. Furthermore, the Christian People's Party supports the proposal for an evaluation of asylum, immigration and integration policies to identify bottlenecks in case of proceedings and settlement, and looks at the compensation schemes for asylum recipients, settlement in municipalities, training in Norwegian for adults and the situation for single minor asylum seekers and refugees. We know that there is a considerable amount of work going on in the department around several of these issues. Therefore, it is important that the Storting should be presented with a holistic review of these assessments, so that targeted measures can be put in place to reduce the duration of treatment and bring about a faster build-up. As part of the work on integrating different cultures, the initiative taken in Stavanger to establish an international house is positive, where people in Norway are invited to participate in a broad cooperation with their nationalities. This is a good cooperation project between municipalities, organisations and the immigrant and refugee communities. In the last year, the merger has had an adverse impact and a higher level of self-sufficiency after a transition from 1999 to net budgeting. For the next year, multiple tasks will be transferred to Sametinget, among others. the Secretariat of the Sámi Training Council. The Christian People's Party sees it as important that the whole thing be strengthened as an important player in the development of the Sami society. In order to strengthen co-political work, proposals have been made to increase the rights of the Sameting by 0.5 million. kr in addition to the suggestions of the Government. When it comes to housing and housing, it is also important for the Christian People's Party that everyone should be able to have a good housing in a good housing environment. It involves good housing coverage and good housing distribution. To contribute to this, the increase in the Husbank loan framework is important. This is increased by an additional $2 billion for the next year, from 9 billion to 11 billion. In addition, the increase in the supply of housing as a result of the budgetary conciliation is of course also important. It will help to build more housing for students and disadvantaged and more spacious rentals. Today we have approx. 6 200 homeless people, and studies show that two thirds of social clients have poor housing conditions. This should mean that a targeted and increased bet by society in the years to come should meet these groups. However, it is important to stress that it is essentially a municipal task to facilitate the construction of housing and the freeing of land. This means that local authorities need to develop local action plans in order to make public efforts in the housing market easier to target. In this way, those with the greatest needs can also get the most help. It should be a more important matter for the municipalities, especially Oslo, but also for other big cities, to facilitate this effort. With the municipalities as active actors, the state will follow up such a bet in a traditional and untraditional way. Labour market developments have been very positive in recent years. As a result, the number of labour market measures has gradually fallen. Some sectors have recently developed somewhat differently. In the oil and gas industries, lower investments have led to fewer jobs in the supplier industry. For this reason, it has been necessary to increase the number of action sites with a separate package of measures for those postponing the shipyards, so that employment can be maintained until the order availability returns to this important part of the Norwegian industry.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e354	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e358	That's right, as the representative Gedrem says, there's been a lot of consensus in the framework of our budget. But in some areas – and perhaps somewhat surprising – I see that the Christian People's Party will not be with us in the Workers' Party. To give an example, the Labour Party and SV have a common note saying that labour market enterprises should be suitable for the qualification of long-term unemployed, immigrants and young people who fall outside Reform 94. We believe that it is necessary to open the way for such groups to be offered an offer within AMB companies. I stress that we do not believe that all immigrants should be offered an offer, but those who have the most problems in the labour market. Similarly, we do not all mean the unemployed, but those who have been unemployed for a very long time. We see that both these groups and young people are now part of the increase in the number of disabled people. Why does the Christian People's Party believe that the AMB companies cannot contribute to these groups? I thought that the Christian People's Party agreed that work was better than social security.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e373	The labour market is a very important measure that has been widely spread in the country. And it's probably a development that will last, especially in the light of the developments we've seen in recent years, with several workers who have problems meeting the demands and pace of today's Norwegian business life, both in order to take care of them in a meaningful way and not least in order to lead them back to a most normal career. We record that the Government has an active attitude towards these companies, and that one is trying to stimulate them to carry out its important task in an increasingly effective way, which also takes into account competitive conditions. In this way, in the future, these enterprises will also be an important public resource when it comes to further development for those who, for some reason, need these specially organised measures. We are confident that the Department will follow up on the initiatives needed to ensure that the groups mentioned by the representative, Mr Gaundal, are respected. We also believe that these companies will be developed so that they can carry out the tasks that it will be natural to do within this type of operation at any time. So in the Christian People's Party, we have great faith in these companies, and we're overestimated that they'll be active and good tools to make people qualified to come back to work even in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e382	There can be no doubt that some municipalities are in a difficult financial situation. This may appear to be the case in particular for medium-sized municipalities in the South and East. Arendal is a well-known example, and Larvik, Tønsberg, Østfold cities and municipalities in the inner East are in much the same situation. The Technical Calculation Committee tells us with all due clarity that the large differences between municipalities are so large that it almost makes no sense to use local economy as a collective concept. It is positive that the Committee will now assess the impact of Rattsø, but the answer is probably contained in the Technical Calculation Committee's report. I have two questions: Is the Christian People's Party willing to move forward with the implementation of the vote of the Rattsø Committee and among others. remove the near-zero loss compensation scheme from the impact of the reform? And why has the Christian People's Party reversed 180 degrees in terms of a general VAT compensation scheme for municipalities, which would allow municipalities to rationalise their operations through competitive outsourcing? This is what the Christian People's Party used to be.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e391	The economic image of Norwegian municipalities is probably a little more nuanced than it can be imagined in this row as well as in the picture that the newspapers are drawing. Unfortunately, it's so that sewing comes before the positive. The negative and the problematic is carried forward with greater force and intensity and more detail than the positive and the building. Therefore, the image of Kommune-Noreg is much more nuanced than the difficulties you are currently presented on some of the first pages of the newspapers. It's a little important that we highlight this, because otherwise the silk culture will take over and dominate, and it's totally wrong in one of the richest countries in the world, because it doesn't provide a cover-up presentation of the situation. Of course, some municipalities have problems. Some of the municipalities that were mentioned are self-differentiated; some of the municipalities that I claim have been too late to take the necessary changes, they have been delayed for a long time. And then once a given has to be taken with a culture that has evolved for too long in the municipality, it gets all the harder. Therefore, it is important that the municipalities are at the forefront and are at the height of the situation at any time, that they have the power to streamline, rationalise and transform so that one avoids such downfalls. We are not in principle opposed to competition in the Christian People's Party. In many cases, it can be seen as an appropriate means of getting a more reflective service offer in municipalities, and sometimes something cheaper, even though I would say that the estimated economic gain is far too high compared to experiences from other countries. But I see this as an own tool to a limited extent. When it comes to the Rattsø implementation, at least we have intentions to move on with it. How far you come with this will make a difference in the municipal economics proposition of spring.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e402	It is always tempting to ask a Christian People's Party representative about the relationship to morality and ethics, and about the relationship between what one has said and promised one year, and what one does the next. One of the things that has not been addressed in this debate, or that is not mentioned very much, is that the government is grossly violating the premise for the reform in Rattsø II, i.e. the implementation of the removal of corporate tax that was adopted and implemented last year. In this context, the compensation was threefold: Oslo would receive its own capital grant, the power municipalities would have more natural resource power, and all the other municipalities would have an increased share of the taxpayer's income tax from personal taxpayers in the municipality. So what happens one year later? The whole increase is removed by the Government, the whole part that was supposed to compensate for the removal of corporation tax, has been removed in one year. It is the municipalities that first lost the company tax, but are not the municipality of power or the capital, that have to bear the burden of converting the taxpayer. My question to the Christian People's Party is: how does this keep in relation to ethics and morality, when one year is used as an argument that it is compensated for and that you get more in income tax, and then next year you completely eliminate it? What confidence can local authorities have in the future's municipal policy of the Christian People's Party when it takes only one year before the foundation of a reform is removed as completely as has been done in this situation?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e411	The question is relevant, but I reject the fact that there is a gap between promise and result. When it comes to corporate taxes, the Government and the Christian People's Party were positive that this was a state tax and not a municipal tax, and the foundation was that one would then eliminate local, municipal variations in the tax revenue as the cyclical fluctuations took place, and that it would encourage the municipalities to cooperate more closely in the development of nutrition, so that the boundaries would not determine where the different business start-ups would be. When it comes to the promises of the municipalities, I will only say in relation to the municipal economic proposal that they are more than fulfilled. The municipalities have a larger framework than we promised in the municipal economicproposition. The reason that one took it this year in view of the next year’s budget, and reduced the tax’s relative share of transfers to municipalities, was that in the current year we had an exceptionally strong tax growth. If only one had carried it forward in line with the entry point shown by the year, a situation would have occurred in which the municipalities received a substantial increase in their income that was not included either by the municipalities or by the Stortinge in the decision in connection with the management of the municipal economic proposition. It is still a goal for the Government and the Christian People's Party that a greater part of their income should come as unbound income. This is the long-term objective, but due to the exceptionally large tax intake in 1999, the Government and the Christian People's Party found it right to limit their share of the income of the municipalities in 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e422	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e425	In order to replicate back to the last post, I would say that I think there will be very many municipalities that have heard a promise from the Government that the taxpayer – not the tax revenue, but the taxpayer – would increase, and that there would be a lasting increase, so that the distribution between the framework transfer and tax would be maintained at about the same level as it was before removing the corporate tax. The right-hand approach to the local economy is described in the recommendation of the Financial Committee. I want to review some of the main principles and the reasons for them. We have seen that the development following the implementation of the Rattsø has resulted in no improvement in the economy for the Rattsø winners. This is due to two things: there has not been a particular increase in the free revenues, so that the pot that should have been used for the distribution of framework transfers has not been increased in particular. It is due to the relationship between earmarked grants and free revenues. Secondly, it is because we have been backed up by a loss compensation scheme in the system, which had nevertheless made it possible that almost all the winners would not get more than half of what they would get under the new criteria – a loss compensation scheme that illogically means that those who were given an unreasonable amount will still get an unreasonable amount in relation to the objective criteria underlying it. The right has addressed this relationship several times, and I am glad that in our own case, we were able to get an insight into the future of the loss compensation scheme in the municipal economic proposition for next year. It must be remembered that the basis of the loss compensation scheme was primarily the Workers' Party's principle that no one should lose on the conversion in the sense that no one should receive less money. When you do not get more money in free income, it makes the situation particularly difficult for the municipalities that expected to receive higher income through the income system. In addition, we have discovered that the distribution of the discretionary frameworks to be passed on to municipalities is based on so-called historical principles and specific discretionary frameworks. In practice, the counties that were given more of the old frames of discretion still get more, and that part of the municipalities that have problems because they used to have little frames of discretion to pick up from the county, are still having problems because the county council has small frames. We're glad that we're both getting this into focus in our community economics proposition, and that we're getting a review of Rattsø. We think it's stupid that you can't base any principles on development, but we accept that one step on the way is at least getting the numbers and the development on the table, and then we get to move on in retrospect. Another issue that we think is important from the Committee's point of view is that this free trial, which is now to be carried out, is a real experiment from which we can learn something. Unfortunately – as the committee chairman also said – it does not seem that the premises are currently making it very new that will come out of this effort if nothing more radical is done than what the government has proposed. For our part, we have, together with the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the SV, pointed out that it may be more radical to integrate into this free trial the attempts of the Committee made in connection with the budgetary position of the last year, namely the attempt at freedom from State sector legislation. So even though we're conservative, we want the Council of State to do something radical in this area, and that the ambitions and test drive must be greater than that all sectoral interests are allowed to determine the framework to be laid for this. Our principal proposal in this budget area had meant that we had a lower framework at our disposal than what we have actually received. We have chosen not to create a «toy budget» where we referred to major priorities in areas such as integration or housing policy that we had not had room for in our own principal budget. It would seem that we were creating a 'toy budget' that had no purpose. We have therefore chosen to base the broad lines of the budgetary agreement between the Labour Party and the intermediate parties, although we disagree on the appropriations for some of these points, but when we first have to spend all the money on a proposal, we do not think that we should pretend that we would have money for other areas – with the exception of two essential pieces in terms of housing support. One piece is integrated in our principal draft budget and is concerned with the fact that we think it is one too radical and for the rapid phasing-out of the compensation granted for the change in the minimum pension in the coordination of the two housing aid schemes, to which it was very much linked, in the spring of 1997. With the coordination of the two, which was opposed to the other right, the majority left the basis for a number of pensioners who are at the minimum pension level, plus 30 pst. by a minimum pension, would get a radically worse personal economy because they had got from both schemes. After being aware of the unfortunate consequences, Stortinget decided to make a compensation scheme. Then they chose to make a slowdown over several years. Last year we were in a slightly faster phase-out. At the time, we were strongly criticized by the Workers' Party for that. But the government is adding to this budget line a cut from below and a cut in compensation, and we have said that we agree that we can phase out those who are paid less than NOK 3000 per year. years. But for those who have had an additional housing allowance of more than NOK 3000 per year, which is, after all, a group with incomes of up to NOK 100 000, and who mostly live in rented dwellings in a difficult housing market, we think it is too strong to cut this to half. And that's what we've done. So to the second part of the housing support system where we think we have to make changes. We believe it is unreasonable to the pensioners that the electricity charge increase is not taken into account in the template that has been submitted for electricity. We've proposed it. We have also said that when the ministry is starting to introduce new principles, namely energy saving, even in relation to old people who, after all, do not have such great opportunities to change their housing, among other things. Because of the difficulty of borrowing, it is considered unreasonable that the real costs of electricity are not taken into account – when the Government believes that the template should be under-adjusted for energy-saving reasons. We agree and are pleased that a new review of the entire asylum and integration policy has now been requested. There are obvious bottlenecks in the application procedure, such as the problems of residence and the signals from UDI towards municipalities of forced residence. All of these things require us to take a round in the Storting both on how we can make the public apparatus in the form of the state apparatus better, but also on how we can look at the forms of compensation for settlement. But I want to say that in the middle of the day that we were about to give the adjustment, there was a little message on the Nettavisen about the small municipality that had got money on the book because they had a successful integration, they had got all their refugees in work, and therefore they also made money on the integration grant, and they actually put a few million kroner in surplus. This means that if you get into integration, it is possible that the grants that are good enough. The problem is that, when integration is not achieved, and refugees and asylum seekers go on as social clients, municipalities are not covered by the expenditure. Then we also need to discuss whether we should give a full blank authorisation in relation to such expenditure, or whether we need to consider stricter requirements for the integration arrangements to be implemented. The Committee is also responsible for reviewing and managing district policy. In this area, the Right has completely different priorities, which will be reflected in our primary budget. However, we have chosen to move in and have opinions on some priorities in the field of regional policy instruments. Among other things, we do not disagree, for example. in the introduction of so-called incubators, but because we had prioritised giving 260 million. kr more to the seed funds, we found out that it was our tool towards about the same group. When you first introduce e.g. Incubators and commercial parks, in our opinion, need to be seen as measures to improve the growth base of mainland Norway in the future, and this must not be narrowed to be confined to areas of regional policy. I will take up the Right suggestion, which is referenced in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e453	Erna Solberg has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e458	The representative of Solberg was not very much involved in labour market policy in his speech, but I need to ask in that area. The right-hand side is distinguished by the fact that fewer labour market measures are needed, in a situation where the government is alerting higher unemployment. In the proposal for a State budget, the government shows that action is effective, that people who are given the opportunity to take action when they are available have a greater chance of getting to work. But the Right writes in its comments: «In a labour market where there is a shortage of labour, an excessive level of labour market measures, combined with a comprehensive day-care scheme, will contribute to unemployment higher than is necessary.» There is then reason to ask whether it is right to interpret the Right so that they believe that people choose leave, that they think it is appropriate, that they disagree with the Government's claim that action works and actually gets people to work. Does the Right believe that it is good for Norway that unemployment is increasing – that it is good for the well-contained majority, while some then get even worse, both in terms of daily allowances and opportunities for action? It is such that otherwise the right also has a rather high profile in terms of competence building and training. They want to appear like a party talking about school and education and such things, but it seems as if this should not apply to those who are unemployed. It's a pretty fundamental question, because this is about our national wealth, that people who are here can also contribute to creating not only a better everyday life for themselves, but actually values for society as well. Does the Right not see that there had been a lurking investment for society and that it had not at least been far more fair that those without a job had come up with measures?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e468	On the right, we believe that we should have labour market measures, but we believe that the level should be lower than the government's estimate. We have therefore said that we believe that on average we can have a labour market measure plan that is approx. 6 000 p.a. years. We have also made it clear that long-term unemployed, young people, immigrants and older workers are to be given priority. So this applies to the long-term unemployed, and that's a very important part, because long-term unemployment is largely achieved after half a year. Unemployment rates are fairly stable in Norway and have not yet turned off in any increase. The increase may include: in my home district, where there are highly skilled workers who in that case become available, and who are likely to need, to a lesser extent, such conversion measures as, among other things, labour market measures have been. So when it comes to whether labour market measures work, last year the budget referred to 15 pst. more likely to get a job if you had taken labour market measures than if you hadn't done it. We don't think that's a particularly convincing description that it works very well. We want, as I said, to concentrate our resources on those groups that have been long-term unemployed. We believe the level is good enough. We fully agree that conversion and re-training are necessary for long-term unemployed groups, but we do not believe that labour market measures produce particularly good results when introduced in large quantities. As regards the issue of the day-to-day pay system, we have not proposed any changes to it. However, in terms of high unemployment, we have pointed out what our experience from the 1990s is, that the combination of measures and high daily allowance, which we all have in Norway, weakens the mobility of jobseekers and stops some structural changes that are necessary to reduce long-term unemployment. I think the most important thing for us is that we make sure that people might get the little puff that's going on for them to get into a new job permanently, so that they don't relive and experience periods of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e478	Right comments are made in the setting that municipalities have a high savings potential if they are willing to consistently suspend competition. Is the right of the view that service provision could have the same quality as such a consistent competitive environment? Is this possible in municipalities of all sizes, in all districts, where there are no enterprises that can meet this challenge? And do all municipalities and all serve themselves for a consistent competitive postponement? Would you like this to lead to an increased administration, more control and more follow-up to see if the outsourced tasks are followed up and resolved in a way that is acceptable to the municipality? How does a local self-government and the ability to adapt to local conditions ensure that local authorities are required to consistently outsource their services to competition? The second issue concerns rural policy. Right will give priority to regional policy, inter alia: improving road construction and better framework conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises, while proposing to reduce the path to local and regional economic development in order to finance a strong investment in road construction. We know that resources for the development of nutrition are very important, including: for women who have started a new activity and, in general, to facilitate the development of a broad income base in the districts. Here at Stortinget, we get a lot of calls from small businesses in the districts that will have the necessary government assistance with such funds in a start-up phase. Is it not advisable, then, to cut this to finance a road construction that is not known where to find its place, or does the Right promise that road construction will take place in municipalities that are strongly influenced by deportation?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e485	We have quite clear evidence that competitive outsourcing leads to cost savings. We can only look at Denmark and Sweden, where this is not such a politically heated area as in Norway, where not only has good results been achieved on the economic side, but good quality results have actually also been obtained. I think it would have been a strength for the municipalities if you had spent more time checking and quality assurance their services and less time running them. The most important thing will be to ensure that care for the elderly is good, that it keeps a decent level, and that we do it at the lowest possible price within the given quality requirement. It can be found out through competitive outsourcing. Sometimes it means that private individuals will be able to operate the services, sometimes it may mean that they are able to switch to a public sector that allows the public sector to operate them itself. I believe that the entire competitive outsourcing discussion we have is contributing to efficiency, although it is not necessarily private providers who win on a tender. So in terms of district policy. We give money to the founders, it's in our budget. We agree that it should be possible to grant grants to women's founders, as the majority will do, and that is one of the items that we haven't cut down very much in relation to the items that we have zeroed out. But that's a choice we have to make. The question is whether we want to spend money on various measures to help make it possible for new businesses to come and finance them through weakened framework conditions for the companies that already exist in District Norway. I remind you that the agreement involves halving the depreciation rates for commercial buildings in the districts. That means, if you think of a business building, an increase of 50 years in lifetime to get the whole building written off. It is quite a lot, and it has quite a big impact on the business community in the districts as well. – This is just one example.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e492	I feel that I have to keep almost the same type of posts to the Right as I kept to the Advance Party. Erna Solberg said that the whole of Højre's profile in the municipal economy is in the financial position. That's probably true, because there's very little here. And the Right stays within the agreed framework. In the financial situation, the right-hand side proposes to cut by 7,1 billion kroner. Then it's a little bit interesting for us other people to see where they cut. Among other things, they cut the sick pay scheme, which primarily affects workers, where they have a saving of over NOK 3 billion, which will hit District Norway and Municipality of Norway. They remove labour market measures, which were the subject of the previous reply. Erna Solberg was in his speech concerned that we should succeed in integrating immigrants. We are also in the Labour Party. But then it's a little strange that the Right is opposed to funds for labour market measures. For it has been proven that in order to get our new countrymen into work — and there is a greater unemployment among immigrants — it is important for municipalities to receive grants for labour market measures. But this is the right-hand side. I'm a little concerned about whether Erna Solberg can say a little about why Right wants to cut 1,500 action places in the A-etat and cut the sick pay scheme, remove the housing allowance, remove the waiting pay for those who have it in state enterprises. It might be a little interesting to hear where the NOK 7.1 billion to which the financial position refers is.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e503	In this reply, it might be tempting to refer to the answers of the Right-wing Speakers to all the lines taken in the financial debate. In previous debates, we have systematically reviewed the reasons for each of these cuts, and the representative Leif Lund knows that very well. We believe that the health pay scheme is too good as it is. That's the only welfare system we have that gives us 100 pst. compensation, and we believe that that is not right. When you know that this scheme is going to cost our society $40 billion in total, it's time to look at it. We are a little surprised that the Workers' Party, which in the 1990s has been a bit critical of both disability and all other welfare schemes — single dependants, etc. – total protection of the sickness pay scheme. I think that the moderate changes in the health pay scheme proposed by the Right, which will basically be so that each of us who are a little sick sometimes, get a little less back, are of the things we can carry. But for groups that are far weaker and with poorer economies, the Labour Party in government has been in front and wanted to cut more. I think it is a bit surprising that the Workers' Party does not see that we who do not have the close partnership with the LO, will not necessarily protect the LO's favourite protected areas as strongly as they do. We don't have a cut in the municipal economy, just to underline it. Our changes involve a difference between the framework and tax and a higher compensation for input-driven funding to hospitals compared to a framework transfer. We're going from 50 to 60 pst. in compensation. In the case of labour market measures, we believe that immigrants can be given priority within the 6,000 areas of action we propose. It is interesting to note that once the Workers' Party has reached a settlement that increases labour market measures, there are no measures against the weakest groups in the labour market, those now mentioned, but it is against them in the offshore industry, which, after all, have quite good competence as a basis.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e514	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e517	An active district policy is one of the main policy tools for achieving good social development for the Centre Party. The main objective of rural policy must be to maintain the pattern of housing and to bring about a positive and healthy development of society throughout the country. A stable settlement is a prerequisite for achieving key societal objectives related to resource use, the environment, well-being and well-being. The centre party believes it is important that the municipalities get the best possible elbow room to rule in their own house. It's important to realize that equivalency is not the same as equality. On the contrary, it is important that we, on a central level, respect the diversity of our country and facilitate local communities to choose their solutions to policy tasks. I would like to underline the Government's objective of facilitating the best possible space for action in the economy of municipalities. In this context, it is important that municipal appropriations are not overly tied up by statutory tasks. I look forward to the government's announced proposal to include parts of the earmarked grants in the income system for municipalities in the context of the municipal economic proposition for 2001. It is also important to follow closely the developments in individual municipalities after the differentiated employer’s fee scheme is adapted to the EU rules on transport aid. In this context, the local economy must also be followed up. Centralisation leads to the impoverishment of districts. The potential for value creation is reduced and environmental and welfare problems are increasing in the key areas. It cannot be repeated too often that a good rural policy is also the best policy for the central regions and for the country as a whole. I think it is important that we become aware of the relationship between the high level of activity in several sectors in a limited geographical area and inflation and negative displacement patterns. The activities must be distributed throughout the country. By doing so, we will both ensure sound economic development and facilitate a greater degree of future value creation. I am pleased that a majority of the committee, the members of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, say that "a living District Norway has great self-esteem". The same majority also points out that the main challenge in the fight against housing patterns is gradually becoming the ‘combat for skills’, and that there is therefore concern when research shows that the number of employees with higher education is significantly below the average in districts. In this context, I think it is nice to be able to draw up a positive example of a district measure in a small municipality in my own county, Northern Ireland, which has developed much more positively than anyone could dare to guess at the beginning of 1994, where a company has attracted the highest competence at university level and today contributes to the value creation of 40 jobs in a municipality with only 2,500 inhabitants. Since its establishment, Ärran – the Lulesamian Centre in the municipality of Tysfjord – has evolved into the municipality's third largest job. In 1994, there were 10 employees, today there are 40. The Greier Centre to realise the required development will continue its positive development and may have a further 10 employees in a few years. Such a successful project has an invaluable impact on a small outlying municipality. Norway is today a multicultural society. It should be seen as a enrichment. However, the increase in the number of asylum seekers who have come to the country in the last few years is also a challenge. The members of the Committee from the Christian People's Party and the Central Party support the Government's main objective of a regulated immigration, the protection of refugees, equality, participation and integration into a multicultural society. These members have noted that the settlement of immigrants and, in particular, the settlement of minors will be a focus for 2000. These members point to the need to reduce the waiting time for the first asylum questioning and are satisfied that the Government has asked the Stortingen to grant more funds in order to intensify the asylum questioning process. Our refugee and immigration policy must be based on humanity and be based on the individual's self-esteem. Racism is destructive and destructive in every way, and it is important that we work against all kinds of this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e532	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e535	The budgetary position largely reflects the budgetary agreement concluded between the Workers' Party and the Government Parties. Nevertheless, it is enough that in many ways more distinguishes these groupings than is apparent from the budgetary position. The representative No qualifiance was in his post strongly concerned with running an active district policy and being able to run in ‘own house’. Now, overall social developments are somewhat distorted in terms of housing patterns — we have migration flows across and across the country, as well as between parts of the country. Not all move from the districts into the central strata – people move from the central strata and into the districts too, even though the main gravity is on the first. In a special note in the budgetary position of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party linked to district policy, it is sought to present the district policy of the Government as the ‘district policy reversal’. It would in many ways be interesting to get a slightly more precise description of what this reverse operation involves. I know that the Council of State Enoxen was challenged on this in connection with a radio program for a while back, where he was to give examples of the government's social governance. It's not easy. However, I would urge myself to challenge the Representative No Qualifying whether she has examples of active social governance in these two years of government functioning, which substantiates the claim of a district policy reversal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e542	It is true, as the representative Eriksen says, that the seas of the Workers' Party and the Government's parties cooperate on the budget and have many common comments in this budgetary position, there is a lot of difference. Thank you for that – it is when we discuss and take a slightly different view that we often get the best solutions. But when Eriksen asks me to point out concrete things that have led to a better district policy, I have to say that it is not that simple. The district policy that gives the best effect is what we call the broad rural policy, that is, what is happening in all sectors. Just as we say that all roads lead to Rome, all political decisions lead to or from the districts. We can make it so complicated that it becomes impossible to live in Foreign Norway. In that context, I want to point to one of the good things the government has started. It is the project they call ‘Simplifying Norway’, in order to simplify legislation in order to make it easier to adapt to different situations. I gradually learn that psychology is very important in politics. If we're still going to hear that we're living on the outskirts, we're just being dirty, we don't mean anything, we're clinging to the foot, yes, then we don't get very good faith in what we stand for ourselves. The most important thing this government does, I think, is that it is quite clear that it has a goal of turning the movement flow. And it's not just going one way, it's going to pulse, people are going to move and move both ways, and it's going to have to be facilitated for a greater degree of return. The centre party has embarked on a project involving both women and young people, to facilitate their repatriation. That is, to a certain extent, a concrete thing. My wish is that this government should continue to send these signals and its active policies to the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e553	The representative No Gulf of the Center Party started the tradition of believing in talking about district policy, settlement, finances in the municipalities and local self-government. So it's probably in a debate like this one to do nothing but to take a line on the Central Party on District Policy. And maybe they should be happy about that. Let me refer to a recent statistical central agency research report, which concluded that the government's efforts to turn the movement flow into cities are completely useless. Of course, it's not funny to hear from the Center Party, because the lot is marginalized as the movement flow from the villages moves. Anyone who moves from the villages threatens the existence of the lot. Norway is perhaps the country in the world that spends the most money maintaining housing in the districts. But here we get a research report that states that the heavy centralisation trend will continue no matter what politicians have to do. I'm going to give the Representative No Quail Bay a liberal challenge, if she can explain what she will do to make the towns more attractive for the move of people from the cities. Maybe we could get a recipe for that. What's the problem today is that the villages are hermetized for people from the cities. We have nobility laws, concession laws, soil protection -- a lot of things that make people from the cities who want to establish themselves in the country actually have almost no opportunity to do it. It's an obstacle, and it's a challenge for those who want to reverse the movement flow in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e566	It cannot be a more grateful task than to answer a question of district policy from the Progress Party. Then it's really nice to debate. The research report by the Statistical Central Bureau, to which the representative Torbjørn Andersen referred, only supports the need for this government's policy, the reverse operation of this government in district policy. Because what this report said was that if we don't introduce new measures, the moving flow will continue to the same extent. And even though we can't stop or reverse the movement current, I see it as an important goal to slow it down and also get a little bit more movement the other way. As I also said in my previous answer, I think it's important to have circulation. We have the best and freshest water in the world. It's the same in society. It'll be freshest if we have circulation. People are going to move, but it's going to be wrong when some areas are being emptied. It weakens the country's capacity for future value creation, as, after all, resources have spread throughout the country. What I also think is important, and as I pointed out in my post, is to facilitate a greater degree of activity. We're talking about that we're afraid to put too much money into new, big businesses because it could ruin the economy, lead to inflation, weaken the crown and weaken our trade balance. But it's not just of importance how much money we put into society. It's equally important where we put the money. And what I think is very important now is that we look at how we can use economic instruments and, for example, how we can use economic instruments. start up new large-scale construction projects in those parts of the country where workers are licensed and where the machinery is located. With that, we're going to reverse the movement rate. We want to slow the flow, we want to reverse the flow, and we get a healthier and better economy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e581	For SV, the local economy is very important. Is that for the Center Party, too? We now experience that the local government sector has the largest deficit in ten years, and the Central Party is in government. In the Adult Declaration, the Centres promised to reduce the difference between the tasks of the local government sector and the money that was sent. So now it's the third year of this period, and if the government's going to achieve its goals, it's going to have to do a solid reverse operation next year. Is this right? It must be an explanation problem for the centre party when the party's own rapporteur in Jölster, Gerd Dvergsdal, in Firda Avis in Sogn and Fjordane now warn that she is taking the initiative for a rapporteur's insurrection, because, as she says, we must make clear how hopeless the economic situation in the municipalities is. What does the Center Party think about this? The second issue relates to one of the main regional policy instruments that is the differentiated employer’s fee. In the United Nations on Thursday, Prime Minister Bondevik admits that he cannot guarantee that Norway will maintain this important regional policy regime after 2003, as the scheme needs to be re-notified. The whole scheme is known to be illegal by the EFTA Court, illegal as commercial aid, and it is a temporary continuation we have now received. What is the reason why the Central Party now, together with the majority, has such an ostrich policy in relation to this issue and does not want it to be fully elucidated on a fundamental basis and that we should have a comprehensive review that can ensure a similar level of support, a corresponding differentiation, as proposed today by SV?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e590	To take the last one first. The central party is also involved in the majority opinion here in the budgetary position, which states that for the 14 municipalities that come under the highest tax rates, it will be important that the government in the revised national budget comes ‘proposals for various compensatory measures to improve infrastructure, enhance the skills of local businesses and promote regional development in the context of a higher-charge transition’. In this context, I said in my post that the local economy must also be followed up. Now we take one thing at a time, and then we see how far we're going. For the time being, we have received approval that part of the differentiated employer’s fee can be interpreted as transport aid. Then we'll hope it goes on. However, we know that we are facing more and more such problems in relation to the European Union. That was the reason why the Centre Party was at the forefront in the fight against EU membership. Today, we have to deal with many EU regulations because we are EEA members, but it could be much worse if we had been EU members. It could also be a lot worse if we hadn't had this government that's so clear and active in relation to these questions. On the other issue, Norway is not a revolutionary society. Things take time. It was about the local economy. Yes, the municipalities have too bad finances. The reason for this is that in recent years municipalities have been entrusted with many major new reforms and tasks in the field of care for the elderly, which actually represent some form of ear-marking. It has to be done before much else can be done. At the same time, the Centre Party has now worked to ensure that Section 8 of the Power Taxation Act is not implemented. It will provide a better economy for a good deal of municipalities. It would be worse for the municipalities if we led an economy that would give a high level of interest rates than we've run the safe economic policy we've done after all. As I said in a previous answer, we need to see all the policy measures in the context.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e602	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e605	The Norwegian economy is freshly reported and better than for a long time, but unfortunately the local economy is ill reported. That's $4.9 billion more in deficit in the last year, and that's the biggest in the last ten years. Tasks and wage costs increase, and transfers do not keep pace with them. In contravention of the Waksenå Declaration, there is now a gap between the tasks and the financial possibilities given to the municipalities. The gap between attitude and action is becoming far too big now. I feel that the municipalities have given up taking up the municipal economy on a general basis. Now they come up with individual issues, very important ones such as financing the education of refugees and especially resource-intensive users, etc., but it is the overall community economy that is too poor and causes problems to emerge in the area by area. For SV, the local economy is a pillar of the construction of society. Now the challenges are many. We need to get a forward-looking commitment to school and education that allows us to see the 21st century safely in a meeting, both as individuals and as communities. We have to have a distribution where the differences are decreasing, because now there's a dithering message that shows that the differences are increasing. What we know is that the municipal sector and the common good are one of the most important things that can help to reduce the differences. In addition to adopting very good and correct reforms, which have been agreed upon in the Stortinget. If we look at what it requires of staff, both in school and in health, there are 85,000 new year's work. There's no room for that in the local economy we have today. In this context, a whole new and different understanding of the importance of the local economy is needed in order to carry out such important reforms. The municipal committee has now reached an agreement on a comprehensive approach to asylum and refugee policy. This is important, because there is a lack of both the system and the money. For example, the KUF has shown that there are no 270 million. kr only for teaching in the municipalities. It's, if you can compare it, more than the total school package that the government parties put into their budget proposals. In particular, the focus has been on unaccompanied minor asylum seekers, and their costs range from NOK 10 000 to NOK 15 000 to DKK 300000 to DKK 400000 per year. years, according to the kind of measures they need and get. There are very different needs and reimbursement schemes for actual expenditure, as they do in Sweden, can be a solution. This must happen quite quickly, because the consequences of years in reception are huge and unfortunate. It is important to do something about this, so that the totally unacceptable proposal presented by the head of the UDI in the media the other day is not implemented. In addition to that, there is one area in which I believe the Storting should already make a decision, and that concerns the particularly resource-intensive users. These must receive state top finance. This is a form of price financing, where the money follows the patient. To my great surprise, for example, follows. This is not a proposal which should, of course, be a proposal in the spirit of the Progress Party. So today, in fact, it is SV who are promoting such concrete proposals, and the Progress Party that is voting against. As far as district policy is concerned, we are now losing control of the instrument by means. The EFTA judgment has established that the differentiated employer charge as State aid is illegal and is only provisionally authorised until 2003. These are fundamental and fundamental changes. The order has been removed from our hands. Yesterday there was a press release from the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs on the reduction of aid rates in SND for grants and loans. The EU has decided that the rates should be lowered, and we must stick to them. I feel that the majority ignores the seriousness of this and leaves it to themselves. When Bondevik said at a press conference on Wednesday that he cannot guarantee that we will keep the system of a differentiated employer's fee after 2003, I have to say when they vote down SV's proposal today to have this investigated: that you are dry! To hope, as the Center Party does today, is to say mildly not good enough. Then to the housing question. The shortage in Norway is a rental sector with enough housing at a low price. There's a need for money, and there's a need for land. Various providers have made cheap offers. The question is whether we, as a crowd, are able to follow up with enough appropriations, so that people who have bad advice have a choice. I refer to SV's suggestions, which have been included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e624	Karin Andersen has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e629	The representative, Karin Andersen, began by saying that the municipal economy was ill-reported and the private economy freshly reported. The SV representative is convinced that justice and distribution – distribution to municipalities for that matter – can only be created through more taxation and increased political and bureaucratic control and management of most of it in society. Some have designated SV as museum guardians, but I am a little uncertain whether the representative Karin Andersen belongs to the so-called museum guards in the party. We can try to clarify this through the following questions: How large does the representative Karin Andersen think that the public – and municipal – sector should be? Is there any optimal balance between the public and private sectors? Should it be that the public forever should be reserved for an absolute exclusive right to carry out welfare tasks, such as care for the elderly and to run schools, even though these offers are nevertheless financed 100 percent of the public – that is, ‘free’ for those who are going to use them – just as they are today? Should there be certainly public servants who will be allowed to care for the sick or to teach the children at school? It has to be allowed to ask about this. The answer I get, I guess I can imagine what it's going to be like, but it's always exciting to hope that in SV too, there's some progress in the vision of how society is to be organized and managed in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e641	This becomes a matter of whether the welfare state is modern or immature, whether it is new or old-fashioned. We in SV believe that we actually have evidence to say that the welfare state is a product of a modern era. It's almost new, and it's unfinished. The system advocated by Mr Andersen of the Progress Party is, after all, the old-fashioned system, in which each one, far more than today, must be vacated, his own wallet, his own abilities and opportunities to move forward. The welfare state has grown slowly. It came in response to the fact that the system advocated by Andersen of the Progress Party was a system that created unbearable differences, and that did not help society to exploit all the resources that each human being has inside it, in a good way, because it created madness, it created unemployment, it created too many differences, and it couldn't manage to exploit them. So it's probably a question of whether it's not the Progress Party that guards the old systems. Then the proportion of public expenditure in Norway has fallen significantly in recent years. In the 1980s, Kaci Kullmann took Five, I think it was, in order for public expenditure's share of GDP to drop to 50 p.m., and it became a very ramsy in the Right around it. So now the government expenditure share of GDP is 46,5 pst. So it is below the EU average, and it has fallen significantly. The Norwegian economy is very good, and it's increasing, but it's the distribution between the common goods and the private consumption that's now gone wrong. The government has also documented in the dithering message that it is the way it goes. In this respect, SV considers that it is not very forward-looking to use the economic opportunity to secure Community goods.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e648	The centre party does not at all disagree with SV in all matters. We stand together in view of human dignity, justice, well-being and distribution. But we're separating a little bit of a layer when it comes to having faith in how local politicians, local politicians, can manage in their own circumstances. SV is often a strong speaker for earring, for minimum standards. Here, we need to ensure equality. But how can we both ensure equality and secure economic elbow space in the municipalities? The central party believes it is important to establish that where we have inequalities, different solutions are needed to achieve equality and justice. Justice is not synonymous with absolute equal award. We live under different conditions, ergo we have different needs. We just have a choice where it was hard to get people to make choices. Being a local politician is no longer so attractive. I believe that this is largely due to the small space of action we have gradually given to local politicians, where we sit here and have to override everything. I should have liked to have received a small study from the Swedish authorities on how they would be able to respect different solutions locally, on how they would give local politicians the freedom of action when they still want to have earmarks and minimum standards in the field by field by field.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e657	The first thing I'm going to do after this debate is send a copy of the SV's alternative budget to the representative Kvalbukt, because she obviously hasn't read that. SV provides a municipal economy that is approx. $6 billion more liberal than the government parties. Part of this is earmarked, but most of it is free income, so that the municipalities can choose their seas. So here I think the representative Kvalbukt has slept well for an hour. In addition, the attitude of the municipal committee – where we are both sitting – which we are dealing with today says that, in terms of district policy, SV wants politicians to be able to choose how they want to develop their territory locally, either in the municipality or in the county municipality. There SV suggests that we put all the money into one pot and allow municipalities and counties to decide the water supply, because we believe that it is those who know best. Print the shoe in school, so let them spend the money on it, it's the cultural life that lacks an impulse, it's the business that needs support, let them use it there. That must be exactly in the spirit of the Center Party. This is not the first time I have promoted this proposal, it is actually the third time. And every time the Senter Party votes it down – in the area of development policy where we could just tolerate very big differences. In terms of school provision and health, SV also has a framework that allows different solutions to be chosen, but we believe that there should be some rights in these areas to be ensured across the country. In fact, I also thought that the Center Party agreed. But in the area where we want to tolerate the greatest differences, the Senter Party votes no.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e666	The next and last replicator is Lodve Solheim – sorry, it's Lodve Solholm.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e670	Yes, a must not misunderstand it so that this is a replica internal to SV! I can inform the representative Andersen that the underlying expenditure growth in the public sector is 2.5 pst, and that the growth in GDP is 0.7 pst. So this is a quadruple growth in the public sector compared to the private sector. So then they must be content, then they have achieved the goal, for that's what they want. The representative, Andersen, said that the representative, None Kvalbukt, had an hour's sleep, and it has obviously been done by Andersen to them too. That's why I took a line, and I want to ask the following questions: how could it be possible that it is the private wallet that counts when the Progress Party's policy is that it is the state and the public that should have the financial responsibility for the basic services in health, care and education, and it should be an equal supply, the same place as a cage in the country, and regardless of the municipal economy and priorities? How, then, can one make it the private wallet that counts? In fact, it's in today's health system, for which SV has the sword – only it would have been a little bit more money – that it works so that it's the wallet that counts, that the representative Karin Andersen and I, who are well-paid policymakers, can afford to buy us out of the queues, by going to private health clinics and going abroad. It's in today's system, i.e. the SV system, that it works so that it's the wallet that counts, not in the system that the Progress Party is talking about, where we say: this is the state and the public responsibility – not the private wallet.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e679	First, the figures for the government's share of the total economy. Those figures are taken from the national budget, so I think they are quality assured by the Ministry of Finance. So until the second question -- now it's getting a little interesting, because one of the well-kept secrets of Norwegian policy is: how much does the health of the Progress Party actually cost when their health funding system is made visible? In fact, the Progress Party says that they should have taxes and levies down, and then they should finance the piece prices, and it should be financed from a health component. And I expect that when everyone is going to be able to take out this part when they think they need it, this health part is going to be pretty big. The tax system, which is then to be a flat system in which everyone has to pay equally, no matter how much they earn, is a profoundly unfair system. It's a system completely without political governance. And the most important thing is that the Advance Party has never made what this should cost each one. It is true that today’s funding of the health sector is so that there are cows, and there are probably several reasons for this. One of the reasons is poor organisation. Another reason is that it is underfunded in some areas. One of the main reasons why SV is very sceptical about the outsourcing and privatisation of these areas is that we see no good reason why funds to be used for healthcare should also go to private profits in companies to operate in this area. I think that is the most important driving force for example. The progress party runs so hard on that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e691	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e694	Many new and other, more experienced local government representatives are struggling these days to get their municipal budgets to go together, without becoming too dramatic about offers and activities. I think we're going to have it in consciousness now when we adopt the state budget for the year 2000. We have to be so honest as to admit that the frameworks of the local elected representatives are not proportionate to the tasks that exist. We have to recognise it as a result of tight budgets both last year and this year, based on more solar macroeconomic considerations that are widely agreed in this Chamber. Within that framework, the Government has tried to keep the local government sector up, with a real growth. But we know at the same time that this growth is mainly occurring within ear-marked areas. At the same time, there is an increase in expenditure through the under-financing of reforms and wage settlements, which help to make the economy of municipalities and county municipalities difficult. Not everything comes to knowledge at the right time. When the Ministry of Local Affairs summarized 1998 in the draft State budget for 1999, it pointed to a real increase in income for municipalities from 1997 to 1998 of about half a percent. When the financial statements are now available from the Statistical Central Bureau, they show that the local government sector has a deficit of NOK 6.7 billion, as the committee director also pointed out in his statement. As politicians, we have to recognise that we have a major educational problem when, on the one hand, we have a society in which the economy runs, according to the Central Bureau, and, on the other hand, we have to cut dramatically into key welfare services. Regional hospitals are missing 570 million. kr to maintain the activity next year. From my county it can be mentioned that the maternity ward is proposed to be closed, the child rehabilitation department is proposed to be closed, as is surgery, rehabilitation, etc. In each city there are torches with thousands of people who express insecurity and want to fight for their welfare services. I think we should recognise these problems, and ask questions as to whether the outlook for reform in the Storting is too high in relation to the resources with which we equip municipalities and county councils. We also need to be able to have an ideological debate about where we go as a society, when the school cannot afford to equip students with pencils and wipes, while the students send each other text messages on mobile phones. A fundamental debate is needed on the organisation of local and regional levels of government, on the resources of the most central societal tasks and on the conditions of local democracy. All of this is closely related. Several parties in the committee, where the Left is therefore not represented, point out in their comments the problems of local democracy arising from tight frameworks and designation in the municipal sector. We share this concern in the Left, and we will contribute to the solutions. The left is pleased that the budgetary agreement with the Workers' Party has given a little more in free money to the municipalities. This is one of the areas where cooperation that road is simpler than towards the Right and the Advance Party. These parties also claim the same leeway for the municipalities, but there is no denying that smaller transfers will have consequences. In particular, the alternative of the Progress Party will be dramatic. The left also sees the need and opportunities for efficiency and simplification in municipalities. However, it is a bad policy to withdraw the gain in advance, and thus not provide municipalities with the incentive to release funds for their own use. The left is in favour of competitive outsourcing as an instrument, but it is not the magic form that the Progress Party in particular manufactures it as. It is not that, in a majority of the country's many small municipalities, more viable and alternative enterprises can easily be established to compete for municipal tasks. Reality is much more complicated than the Progress Party's world. Nor is there any correlation when the lot in a note states that local self-government should be strengthened, while at the same time the state should earmark the funds at the level of detail. In rural policy, too, it is the Progress Party that emerges from a wider policy, with dramatic effects on settlement and value creation in the country, even though it is also wrapped up in a number of honours. The left is pleased that there is still a large majority of the main lines of the Government's district policy, as the budgetary agreement shows. Furthermore, the Left will join the comments of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party in the vote and support the proposals to which the same parties have agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e722	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e725	The representative of Kongshaug was in his intervention on what I feel most of the time had already been said in this debate. That is why I think I want to challenge the representative in an area that we may not have been so much involved in this debate, but which he, as a member of one of the government parties, should be able to respond to. I would like to focus my attention on the Government's immigration, asylum and refugee policy, but in the area of settlement outside the municipalities. The left has been a very liberal party in its view of Norwegian refugee, asylum and immigration policies, and the government's soft policy has resulted in an immigration pressure against Norway that we have still witnessed growing. Thus, the number of asylum seekers and refugees, and not least immigration through humanitarian stay through family reunification and arranged marriages, is growing sharply. Personally, I have to say that I have a very restrictive view of this issue. I could imagine asking the representative Kongshaug from one of the government parties: How has the government intended to settle the constant flow of people from distant skies? There's housing shortages in this country, and it's actually a pretty big practical problem. So when it comes to taking asylum seekers, immigrants and refugees to Norway, we see today that it is a real and dramatic problem to find a place to live for them. Does that not itself mean that we should perhaps pursue a somewhat more restrictive policy in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e732	It is a well-known matter that there is a great difference between the position of the Left and the Progressive Party on immigrants and that of immigration policy in general. It is justified by the difference in the view of individual individuals that the two lots have. Left chooses to look at an immigrant as an individual, facilitates through society according to the possibilities that the individual has, and also makes demands on him. It's about adapting to our society. We don't think of these people as a group where everyone has to be treated equally. There's a significant difference in ideology, that's right. With regard to immigration to Norway, it is not under greater pressure than in other countries, in relation to the society we have, with our wealth and the opportunities we have to integrate refugees into our country. Having said that, I would also like to say that not everything that is said is right – for example. that we are pursuing such a clever immigration policy as I might see suggestive of. The policy now pursued by the Government is a real policy that also takes into account practical things that the representative had to deal with, among other things. this with settlement. It is clear that things take time, but there should be no problem in our country to provide housing for new citizens. Reality is also that we need some immigration, precisely in order to maintain our welfare society in the time to come – given the need for labour.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e741	The representative of Kongshaug said at the end of his speech that he subscribes to the comments of the Central Party and the Christian People's Party in the vote. I want to ask the representative a question related to one area. That's the question of the so-called incubators, a question that I've understood has been of great interest, not least in More and Romesdal, the representative of Kongshaug's homeland, where, among other things. The Labour Party’s representative Laila Kaland has been out in the media and said that, in this chapter, they have more money for the Ålesund High School – apparently linked to the Incubator Programme. The right has included a comment in the vote because we would stress that we believe that such incubators should be established both within and outside the scope of district policy. This is quite crucial for, among other things, Higher education in Ålesund, but also for almost all other coastal colleges, because they are outside the scope of district policy. It is a little difficult to understand the comment of the majority behind the agreement, and I assume that Kongshaug has signed up to it, because he said he supported the comments of the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. So I'd like to hear his view on this question. Is it the case that the majority now advocates the inclusion of this incubator programme outside the area of regional policy instruments? Or is it that this is a follow-up to the government's arrangement, where the activity should lie?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e752	It is a well-known fact that the Government has an offensive policy in terms of what is going on incubator activity. It's natural to build things up around the established colleges we have around, and to pull bills on the established business community, which can be involved in and form such institutions. With regard to More and Romesdal, I just have to say that I do not know well enough about the proposal to which this was referred. But the situation is at least that there are plans around at the different colleges. The instruments proposed by the Government in the budget, which are contained, have been expressed as good instruments, which will benefit in this context. Otherwise, we have faith in the district policy it is imposed on by the Government. I would like to point out that the proposal that comes from the Right in this context, to reduce grossly the funds for regional development, is helping to weaken the part of the district policy that we are talking about here. If one joins the scheme of the Government, one based on the leadership needed in that context is on a safe path.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e759	I think the representative Kongshaug had a good description of how public poverty now stands in stark contrast to private wealth, by the image of a school where it was not possible to obtain the most elementary things like pencils, while the students put and sent text messages to each other on cell phone. How has the representative Kongshaug intended to address this? Does the representative of Kongshaug see that there is a need for a stronger distribution policy that allows the community to have a greater share of social resources than they do today? Norway is a very rich country, and it is almost impossible for people outside the government parties to realize that it should not be possible to bet on an area as important as school right now when we have the wealth we have, because it would be a wise investment. Why, then, is it more important that taxes be kept very low in many areas? You can't distribute so that you get a real commitment to school and education. Then to the district policy. As Kongshaug sits on the nutrition committee, I expect that he is also very concerned about it. Can the representative of Kongshaug explain how he believes he understands the EFTA judgment that has fallen on the differentiated employer fee? Like the others from the centre parties, is he so little concerned about the future of this system when we know that it is a temporary approval until 2003, that he does not see the need for a complete review of the fundamental changes that this judgment has brought about for Norwegian district policy?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e766	In the case of distribution policy, there is an area in which the Government is most concerned. And then, in my opinion, we are talking not only about the distribution of individuals or groups of people, but about the distribution between different levels of society, even where the public is part of it. I agree with Andersen that we need a debate. It's a debate, and we need a debate on the direction in which we want this society to go, as I said in my post. Is it true that there is so much economic in school that there is too little pencils and whispers for the students, while students send text messages to each other through private funding – to put it that way – on their mobile phone, is the basis for an ideological debate that we are going to have with SV. Now it's necessary to run a tight policy, because there's nothing so unfair that there's a high interest rate that's going to lead to austerity in society. Then often those who have loans and who are in a difficult phase of life are hit, while those who do not have such commitments get even better. It's not that simple to say that here we're going to increase by funds either. But it has to go in that direction. With regard to the employer's fee and the EFTA judgment, I just have to refer to what the Prime Minister has said here, but for my part, I would be very concerned if it were to go so that the employer's fee was removed as a district policy instrument in our country. It is the most effective district policy instrument and the most effective de-balancing and distribution we have, although today we disagree with the fine-hulled network in terms of division into zones. We should look at larger regional areas with the same employer fee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e776	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e779	In addition to the fact that the Workers' Party got an impact on the centre parties to increase the transfers to the municipalities by approximately NOK 1 billion, there are three areas that are very important in the position of the Municipal Committee, and which I am going to enter into. The first is the increase of approx. 3 500 action places in the labour market set. Despite the fact that the labour market nation's own forecasts of an increase of 10,000 more unemployed next year and a doubling in the number of outpatients from October last to October this year – to 11,500 – the government has incredibly put forward a budget without an increase in the number of labour market measures until next year. At the same time, the Government of the Landfill Proposition writes that labour market measures work. More of the unemployed implementing measures come to work than of those who are not offered any measures. Then it is almost completely impossible to understand what policy the government has in this area. The Labour Party believes that it is absolutely necessary to increase labour market measures to the next year and that it should also be possible for some to obtain the same offers as those available. We know that when most of the permits and denunciations that have taken place or have been announced are in the engineering industry along the coast and in the oil-related industry, this goes heavily beyond the districts. That is why this package we have now received is, to the most extent, district policy. Providing the skills available in the districts to make changes so that people can live where they are established and have access to them must be more important than trying to get on every possible new twist in order to make people live in the districts. Another important point in the attitude is immigration and integration policy. The Workers' Party is not satisfied with the Government's asylum and immigration policy, and I am pleased that we have got the other parties to ask the Government for a broad review and evaluation in this area, and then to present this to the Stortinget. There are now almost 14,000 in the various receptions. In addition, the Government believes that 8 000 should be settled in the municipalities until next year, and UDI’s solution to the problem is that municipalities should be forced to receive refugees and asylum seekers. The Workers' Party will oppose this. We don't want to overrun local democracy in this way. And I'm going to ask, won't such a procedure help promote more resistance and gloat under xenophobia and racism? Municipalities must be given conditions to ensure that settlement and integration do not stop, as they are now. There are now more lone minors in asylum recipients than ever before. This is an unsustainable situation. Because we know that the longer the refugees are in reception, the harder it becomes to integrate them into society. This applies to young people as adults. That's why it has to be cleaned up quickly. And if there's money, yes, the government must admit it and come to the Storting and ask for larger appropriations. Rapid procedures, adequate Norwegian training, the provision of work and housing for those to stay here are important points for us to succeed in the integration policy – not long stay in the reception of asylum, as it has now become. Another important resource for successful integration policy is voluntary work carried out by immigration organisations. That is why the Labour Party has been given a majority to increase the appropriations by almost 50 pst. until next year. That's good. Finally, it is interesting to note that an overall committee has been set up to provide the Government with a review and evaluation of the income system for the local government sector. There is no doubt, however, that the changes made in the introduction of parts of the Rattsø Committee's proposal, which the Stortinget has adopted, have not had the effect envisaged. Now Stortinget will have the effects on the table in connection with the municipal economic proposition of spring, and then the Stortinget man has to make the changes that were foreseen. If Stortinget believes that there is a division between municipalities, so that all municipalities – including the central and peoples – can have the same opportunities to provide their citizens with a reasonable service, yes, something has to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e802	I am pleased that the Government is in agreement with the main features of the budget line that we have presented. I am also pleased that the majority of the Committee is concerned with such key areas as how municipalities should be better able to fulfil their tasks, and not least with the challenges we face in the field of asylum and refugee policy, which several of the speakers have addressed here today. How are we going to get a faster settlement? How are we going to get asylum seekers and refugees to work more quickly? How are we going to work to achieve better integration into society? These are key questions that I am very pleased that the Stortinget has put so strongly on the agenda as has been done in this vote. In recent years, the local government sector has seen significant economic growth. In fact, in the current year, there's a real growth of almost 2 pst. There is a significant tax increase in the current year beyond what was laid down in the adopted budget. There is a real increase from the 1999 budget to the 2000 budget — after the agreement now reached in the Stortinget — of about a quarter. DKr 4 billion. In spite of this, we see that the local government sector has a huge deficit, which several speakers have pointed out in their speeches. This, of course, has several reasons. It has, among other things, the relationship with the way we finance the major older reform, it is linked to the substantial increase in costs in the municipal sector in 1999, and it is linked to the high expectations of the local government in relation to new tasks to be addressed and also to the need to meet ever-new tasks. I am therefore pleased that both the committee leader and others have signaled that we need to sit down to find solutions to the local authorities' situation together. In my opinion, this is not just about money, it is also about whether we will have a local autonomy in the future, a local government of the municipalities, with real choices to find our own solutions to the challenges we face, and to do our own priorities in relation to the order in which the tasks are to be done and what kind of tasks you want to tackle. The alternative is that we get a local government sector that becomes a pure service producer, as one, in my opinion, will be able to facilitate with the policies of the Progress Party. They talk in the mood of strengthening local democracy. However, increasing designation and stronger management of transfers to the local government sector will not give more local democracy, but will make the local community sector more and more a pure service producer where local democracy will become a priority. This is one of the fundamental debates that we have to deal with in relation to how the municipalities will be able to solve their tasks in the future. It's about looking at state designation, it's about looking at the way we, through regulation and law, oblige municipalities to solve their problems. For this reason, the Government has taken the initiative to establish a consultation mechanism with the KS, in order to gain a more common understanding of the types of tasks that the local government can undertake during a financial year. There is, of course, a balance between the degree of ringing and the degree of free means. There's of course a balance here, how far you can go in relation to leaving the municipalities free to choose their own solutions. But the government's goal of giving greater freedom of action is firm. I see the majority as agreeing with that, and that this should be within certain frameworks where the different considerations are to be weighed. I have previously announced a review of the income system in connection with the 2001 Community Economic Proposition, and I see that a unanimous committee agrees that such a review is being carried out. I'm happy about that, too. I will present that matter to the Storting in connection with the 2001 Community Economic Proposition, which is submitted to spring. The criteria for the allocation of the discretionary funds will also be reviewed in this context. A unanimous committee also asks the Government to carry out a comprehensive review of the compensation scheme for particularly resource-intensive users. Here, too, we are facing significant challenges. I have met many municipalities that describe an alarming increase in resource-intensive users, especially young people, and especially young people who have come into this category because of drug problems. It opens up another debate, which we are going to take seriously, but of course we are also going to carry out a review of this financial instrument. It's just to admit that there have been entry problems, among other things. in relation to the manner in which reporting has been made. We would like, among other things: see if we can achieve better systems for more consistent reporting. We will also consider other funding guidelines, which pay particular attention to the heaviest users, and in this context will also consider what the Committee has asked for, a top-level funding scheme. So a few words about the pilot project with the 20 municipalities that get the opportunity to dispose of a large part of the earmarked funds as free resources. There has been a lot of discussion about this also in the debate here today. Let me start by stating: this is going to be real. I have therefore decided, among other things: the orphanage allowance shall be included in the scheme, so that this experiment can be fully carried out in line with the Government's intention and, as I see it, the intention of the Storting and the Committee in the formulations on which it was based. Furthermore, the Committee has asked for an assessment of the possibilities of parallel running this experiment with an attempt at freedom from State legislation in addition to funding. The ‘Simplifying Norway’ project now reviews State legislation against the local government sector. We are in the second phase of this project, and we are facing a good deal of decisions to be taken on how to move forward. In this context, tests will be considered in line with what the Committee has requested. I would also like to report from this legislative project in the 2001 community economicproposition and then come back to whether it is appropriate to carry out trials. Several have rightly been concerned with the situation in the area of asylum and refugee. Reception time is too long. We have problems with housing and also with getting asylum seekers to work as quickly as we should be able to do it. The government is therefore implementing measures to address this situation in several areas. Among other things, we have two projects under way to reduce the duration of the asylum procedure. From 1 July 2000, we will transfer asylum inquiries from the police to the UDI, which we expect will produce results in the form of shorter Question Time. We have also launched a project to dismantle the interrogation delays by the spring of 2000. There are significant residues in this area and a project has been put in place to reduce this Questionnaire. We have started a review of the situation on the reception side, we are evaluating the integration grant scheme, and we have launched a project to look at the housing strategies that we have followed in the last ten years to gain experience with them. I will come back to Stortinget with a review of the asylum, immigration and integration policies, as the Committee has requested, in an appropriate manner at a later stage. But when that is said, I would also like to point out that we have had a significant increase in the number of asylum seekers in recent years. In 1997, 2 271 asylum seekers and refugees arrived in Norway. In 1998, this number was increased to 8,374, and the current year, including the 6,100 from Kosovo that we have received, we actually have a number of 13,800. At the beginning of 1998, 1 873 asylum seekers were received, i.e. at the end of October in 13 389 C.E., close to 14 000, which have been visited by several. The residence time of the recipient has increased. At the beginning of 1999, 100 had a residence period of more than six months. By the end of October, it was 600. This is a worrying situation, which gives cause for concern, and is also the basis for the projects launched by the Government, where we are now working to speed up the settlement and speed up the process. But I would also like to point out at the same time that we have actually lived in the current year 5 000 asylum seekers. It's a high number compared to previous years. The 2000 forecasts suggest a need of 8 000, many of which have been identified. So far, we've been put at the disposal of 4,000 homes from municipalities for the next year. So there's only half as many people as we need, but I also have the hope that through dialogue with the municipalities, we'll have more homes put at our disposal. For there are only several local authorities, and there is only an increase in the rate of residence that can reduce the waiting time following a decision on a residence permit. I do not believe in coercion as a means of settling. Nor do I believe that the only answer is to increase the integration grant. I want to initiate a close dialogue with the KS to find good solutions to these questions, so that we can work to reduce the time spent in reception in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e838	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e841	I am pleased with the Council's feedback on the major challenges in the municipal sector, and not least on integration policy. But I want to ask something else, which is also important. In today’s Business on November 30, this year, we could read that there is now an empty box and queue in the House Bank. It was shown that the House Bank has no money left to borrow for the rest of the year, and that there is 1,800 in the loan queue. This concerns the housing law, and NBBL has addressed it in particular. We in the Labour Party are also concerned about this. It was considered to present a proposal on this in the vote, but it was then said that it was not necessary. So my question to the Council of State is, can the Council of State assure us that the construction of housing will not stop, and that the money will be paid on an ongoing basis from 1 January, so that we do not get a plug and stop in the system? Because we have a screaming need for the naked and reasonable homes, especially for young people.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e852	It is correct, as the representative Brustad points out, that the appropriations for the House Bank for the current year have been used up, despite the fact that the lending framework was actually increased by NOK 1 billion in the budget for the current year. That is also one of the reasons why the Government has proposed to increase the budget next year by NOK 2 billion. We see that the demand for just this type of loan is increasing as a result of the fact that several people want access to loans that can provide a reasonable cost of living in dwellings that have a sober standard and that are specifically intended for the first time residents. The way in which loans are handled suggests that when there is no more money left, the applications placed there will have to be dealt with in the context of the next year's budget. The House Bank aims to implement as far as possible a flexible procedure for these, so that payments can be made as quickly as possible. But it is not possible to make payments on next year's budget in the current year, so the payment must come when the appropriations for next year are started after the new year. This will be facilitated by the House Bank, in the same way that the House Bank has also provided greater flexibility in how to use the legislation to meet some of the criticisms, in relation to the demand in cities and areas where housing costs are higher than those initially within the framework of the House Bank. There has now been more flexibility in meeting the needs of those areas with higher housing costs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e859	I was a little surprised when the central party representative No Quail Bay in a reply to Torbjørn Andersen instead said that when it comes to moving power, we can't turn it around, not stop it, but maybe slow it down. Does this mean that the government has changed its policy, that we are now getting a new policy? Because I had the impression that the Adultås declaration meant that one should turn the moving current. I believe it is to believe in Christmas, but still I am a little surprised that the representative Kvalbukt said so. With the representative belonging to his own party, it might be interesting to get an explanation of it. So the Council of State said that the reason the municipalities have poor finances, among other things. was the financing of the older reform, that it was the reason one might have had thrones. I share that view, because the Stortinge in this funding puts in so much of a feature, especially in Sickness Home Squares, that the municipalities actually do well – not in line with the need, but actually in line with the self-esteem and the ability to finance it – to build care homes to a far greater extent than the need to attend, and that there are too few sick homes. This has been pointed out by the Committee in the form of a comment, and it also asks the Council of State to examine the matter and possibly come back to the Stortinge in an appropriate way and give us feedback as to whether this is the case. I would like confirmation that the Council of State will come back with it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e866	The government's objective in the field of district policy is firm. The government's goal is that we should work to reverse the shift flow. So far, over large parts of District Norway, we've seen a tendency that the relocation is now slowed down. Unfortunately, it hasn't turned around. I think it's a good piece ahead of you, but that ambition is solid. There is also a background for the Government to have a targeted commitment to regional policy measures that will help to promote this. One of the basic challenges facing districts is to keep young people in line, to ensure that young people move back, and to have jobs that demand the skills of young people and the type of education that young people have. Unfortunately, we know that the proportion of employees in district companies in higher education is lower than that of enterprises in central districts. This is a challenge that the Government has taken seriously, and which also underpins the efforts of the Government, among others. through commercial activities, including: in relation to the incubator programme now in place from next year, and a number of other measures in place, both personalised and in the context of the more general district policy arrangements. That ambition stands firm. And with regard to the research report presented by the Statistical Central Agency, there is a great deal of uncertainty about the type of long-term projections. The picture of the future of district municipalities is not unambiguous. There are many district municipalities that actually have an increase in the population. We will also go in and see what it is that district municipalities that should really be on the taper list have been able to do the exact opposite, have been able to increase the number of jobs, have been able to attract young people, and have taken action that actually works in the direction that we want it to. The Elder Reform will be evaluated in the mid-term, i.e. that it will be evaluated to next year. Then, among other things, the Government will look at the distribution between nursing homes and nursing homes, such as the representative Solholm's demand.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e875	I would like to say that I am pleased that the Council of State clearly stated that he did not support UDI's scheme to force refugees and asylum seekers into the municipalities. It is important for us that we do not now provoke the municipalities in these questions. There are enough municipalities today that say no to the reception of refugees, and here we need to get a real round and a dialogue with the local government sector. I want to record two themes. One theme is a question to the Council of State. This applies to the free trial, as also mentioned by the Council of State. I refer to my post, where I asked the Council of State to think radically. In the letter of reply that we received in connection with the so-called second phase of the follow-up to the attempt to exempt legislation, I think the Council of State gave a very passive answer that if you had first found out that you had to remove some rules, you might as well do it. I think that's okay with the things you've figured out that you can get rid of. But I think this attempt should be more radical. Perhaps you should be able to find out what you would not initially have intended to remove, and still do the tests to see if it is possible to obtain services that work, even if they are not necessarily regulated by the Department, or by regulations or by law. SV has included in the setting two proposals relating to the question of strategy in the future in relation to a differentiated employer's fee, which we seriously considered. All parties have commented on this theme. We have not accepted the proposals, but we have comments relating to the same, and to put it correctly: we are very little satisfied with the way the Council of State has handled this matter in relation to the Stortinget and the municipalities concerned. We thought that this government should stand for both popular government and for transparency in decision-making. We have had serious problems finding the criteria for the decisions that have been taken. We are afraid that this has caused us to have a bad strategy also in relation to maintaining the system, because if you do not have clear criteria, it is also difficult to argue for it in the future. What will the Council of State do to clarify the criteria before the next round?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e884	First, to the free-dom attempt and extension of it to other areas as well. Decoupling municipalities from regulations and regulations in a way that will make the type of attempt a successful project is quite extensive. This is why we have chosen to go into this heavily through the ‘Simplifying Norway’ project, in order to provide the basis for a thorough investigation. I will, as I said in my speech, come back to this question in the context of the municipal economic proposition in 2001 and look at how one can either possibly get to the good try then or at best have come so far in a change of legislation that we can implement it more fully throughout the municipal sector, because I think it is absolutely necessary if greater municipal autonomy is an objective, and that is how I have perceived the majority of the committee. On 20 May this year, the EFTA Court of Justice ruled that the system of differentiated employer charges is State aid within the meaning of the EEA Agreement. However, the majority of the scheme can be continued in its current form as a regional transport aid scheme, subject to Norway notifying a scope of the differentiated employer fee, while also introducing certain restrictions on the use of food. As the Committee is aware, 14 municipalities received an increased employer’s fee, while 39 municipalities received a lower employer’s fee. This arrangement is under pressure. It now runs until 2003. It is a fact that we will face challenges in keeping a differentiated employer’s fee as much as we have today, as a district policy instrument, in the same way as the SND scheme is under pressure. There, the scheme is likely to run for six years, but after six years, the scheme is to be evaluated. Both the proportion of the population included in the scheme and the criteria for both of these two schemes are constantly subject to changes within the EU system, which means that this is a system that needs to be closely followed up. To the best of our ability, we have tried to follow up the criteria that have been laid down, and combined them with sound judgement in relation to which municipalities can get lower fees, and which have to receive a higher fee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e899	Governments indicated that there has been growth in the local economy. At the same time, we are facing the greatest deficits of ten years. There has been a significant increase in costs, it has been said, and it is linked to the reforms, but it is also linked to wages. If we read in the municipal economics proposition, we see that it says that there is a need for 85 000 new annual works in the municipal sector to fill the reforms it has agreed on, and there are twice as many people there are room for in the macro-economy. How does the Council of State envisage developing the local economy, pay and employment conditions in the municipal sector, in such a way that we can have some kind of realistic hope of manning these important reforms, and through the secure Community schemes and the welfare state, as I believe the Council of State has taken a very strong stand for. It must mean a rather strong increase in the local government sector if the Council does not have other solutions to that issue. So to the differentiated employer's fee. I am pleased that the Council of State now expressed itself with a greater seriousness than I feel that his representatives in the Municipal Committee have done, where they write that «The system of differentiated employer charges may be continued following the judgment of the EFTA Court». The Council of State now pointed out what the reality is, and then I have the following questions to the Council of State: Is it the case that the Council of State agrees more with Prime Minister Bondevik when he now says that he does not dare to guarantee that we will maintain this system after 2003, than he is with his colleagues in the Municipal Committee? And does the Council of State, like SV, believe that there is a need for a comprehensive review of both this and SND, because this is a reality that important instruments have been taken out of the hands of Norwegian political decision-making authorities?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e912	It is, of course, difficult to say what will happen after the year 2003 when this scheme is being re-evaluated. What I see as the central parties in the committee have stated is the result of today's judgment, where it is a fact that we get to continue most of the system under that judgment. At the same time, the system is under pressure. It will remain unchanged until 2003, but what will happen after that time, what kind of criteria will then be laid down, yes, see it more uncertain, but as requested here, we will, of course, do what is possible, to look at both criteria and mechanisms that can ensure that we maintain a maximum share of regional policy instruments even after the next evaluation. The problem is that these schemes are under pressure within the EU system, that the proportion of the population to be covered by these types of schemes should be reduced, and that the dispersal criterion underlying the Norwegian scheme is also under pressure and will be exposed. But, of course, it is our primary objective to maintain as much of this system as possible. Therefore, it is impossible to say what will happen after 2003. However, the judgment states that in the form we are now passing on the employer’s fee, we will maintain most of the scheme, not as part of the tax system, as it was originally said, but as an indirect transport aid. So to the challenges in the municipal sector: we have quite formidable challenges in terms of how the tasks, which we all want the community to deal with, can be satisfactorily solved. We will need to significantly increase employment in many areas, while at the same time seeing the level of costs in these sectors increase. This is why it is all the more important to maintain a balance between the private and public sectors, so that growth in the private sector is achieved at the same time as growth in the economy as a whole, which enables us to carry out the common tasks of the municipal sector in a good way. That is what the Government has been trying to facilitate in the budget that is now being presented.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e919	Both the State Council of Enoksen and the State Council of Davøy have previously given positive signals in Stortinget that political governance of the housing market is desirable. With social housing, we believe in the Workers' Party that it must be possible for people with normal incomes and for young and disadvantaged to be able to obtain housing. The land prices we have today are going to be difficult, especially in Oslo. In a note from the Workers' Party and SV, it is pointed out that State Building has laid out parts of the area of the old Rikshospitalet, known as Pilestredet Park, for sale to the highest bidder. Prices are expected to be high. I would like to ask the State Council, Mr Enoksen, whether he wants to take the initiative to sell one of the plots to a non-profit organisation that can house rentals, funded by the House Bank, with a clause that young and disadvantaged people can get them. And then another theme: The Enoch has said here today that the deportation from District Norway has "braked" up. I am therefore a little surprised that he used as strong words as he did in the ‘Political Quarter’ on December 2, at 2. 08.05 in the morning, because then he said that this government was going to elect it to do a gigantic district policy reverse operation, that it would reverse the flow of movement, and that these were ambitious goals. When I hear the statements from the Council of State and the representative of the Central Party on the Municipal Committee, it seems to me that they haven't done so much. They've actually managed to slow it down a little bit.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e932	After ten years of stepping down the regional policy instruments — every single year — where we actually have to go back to 1990, when the municipal minister named Johan J. Jakobsen, to find a similar commitment in the area of regional policy, after having seen a unilateral and strong centralisation over the year, where the relocation from the outlying municipalities and districts has increased for each year, we now see for the first time in this decade that the relocation slows down in important areas of the country. For example, the deportation from central Norway is halved from 1997 to 1998. Moving to Oslo is reduced by 38 pst. It is partly due to the fact that some of the relocations now do not go to Oslo, but to the municipalities around Oslo, I have to add that, but centralisation has slowed down. The displacement from important parts of the periphery has slowed down. It's an important milestone in development, after we've had a one-sided centralization over time. This does not mean, of course, that the goal of turning the moving flow is not fixed. But if you're going to be able to achieve the goal of turning the movement current around, you have to at least first be able to slow down the movement current, then stop it, and then turn it around. This is a long-term work that we have undertaken, and which we are now doing well to implement with this budget line, with the help of a majority in the Committee, because it is important to have a wide range of instruments in order to be able to reverse the shift. It's not enough to build roads in District Norway, as someone thinks. It is also important, but it needs to be followed up by other instruments, both personalised instruments, skills-enhancing instruments and instruments aimed at strengthening business life in District Norway. It is primarily a municipal responsibility to facilitate housing construction. It is also a municipal responsibility to pursue a land policy that allows for cheap land and facilitates social housing, which makes it possible to establish itself at a reasonable cost. The State has a land available in Oslo, a land that the Government has decided to sell to the highest bidder. I think it is necessary to think well through the precedent that it would have if, in Oslo – in one of the most attractive areas – you wanted to sell a plot at a reduced price and do not do the same in other areas where you have a pressure on land prices and high land costs. But this is a question that falls primarily within the remit of the Minister of Labour and Administration, and which she may be able to answer in more detail.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e941	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e944	The budgetary position presented today is the result of a compromise. That's what it looks like. But for us in the Labour Party, it was important to turn the budget in a more correct political direction than when the government parties made budgetary settlements with the Right and the Advance Party. In one area, we see a positive trend, and that is in terms of the housing market. With Inner. S. No 100 for 1998-99 for St.meld. No 49 for 1997-98, on housing for young and disadvantaged people, and this budget compromise, I believe, we can correct some of the bias in the housing market. In addition, the government had an increase of NOK 2 billion to the House Bank in its budget proposal, and that's good. With the budget agreement that will provide 1000 new student homes, we will release reasonable dwellings that can be used by other tenants who also need housing at a reasonable price. The agreement also meant that we had to add 50 million. kr for rental dwellings. 6.5 million. kr of these are proposed to be converted into the commitment authorisation. I will admit that I had hoped that we would get to what was the starting point of the Workers' Party, namely that in addition to the student accommodation we would get to 1000 new rental homes. But the settlement is now once a settlement, we didn't get any more this time, but we got a good deal on the way. However, as the majority of the Committee, members of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Centre say, we should follow closely the development of the construction and establishment of rental dwellings and, where appropriate, assess the appropriations and commitment frameworks for the revised budget for the year 2000. We are hoping that we will see a development in the housing market that shows that there are many and good projects, which in turn means that a demand for more funds is justified. It is desirable that the construction industry look for new and reasonable solutions when we are going to build rental properties. The majority, the members of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, also indicate that there should be a stepping-up plan for the construction of several rental homes. These parties request that such a plan be specified in the 2001 budget. Concretely, this means that the number of rental dwellings per person. years must pass and the financial costs of an escalation plan must be in place. In the context of such a plan, the majority asks for an assessment of the setting of minimum limits for grants, both for rental dwellings and low-deposit dwellings. We rely on all parts of the construction industry contributing, our responsibility is to facilitate that the arrangements are reasonably predictable. Therefore, it is necessary to consider such minimum limits. Then we in our treated St.meld. No 49 for 1997-98, On housing for young and disadvantaged, one of the decisions taken was that the Government should set up a housing selection. A number of points were also set out on what Stortinget thought should be included in the mandate of the sample. One of these points was the role of public authorities in housing. It is a very central theme, as we see market prices exclude many from the housing market. Repeatedly, we've had enough of the government and the state council to get this sample in place. The Council of State has now said that the sample should be in work from 1 January 2000. But it's taken, to say the least, too long. The survey considered that the sample should have a few years on it, and now it is soon a year before the sample is in operation. It seems to me that there is almost some refusal to take political action in housing policy. I hope it's not like that, because both the Workers' Party and I believe that we need more, not less political governance. There is a great deal of construction activity in the case of nursing homes. It's joyous, because the older part of the population clearly wants a lighter housing situation when they get old. What's not good is that the municipalities don't seem to give priority to nursing homes. Therefore, an overall committee asks the Government to follow those developments closely. Developments in the prices of nursing homes are an absolute reason to follow. It is worrying that almost everyone who is offered such housing depends on housing support, because the construction costs have become so large. It must be an essential part of the evaluation, which will come to spring.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e967	I want to start my post by saying that Norwegian municipalities today have enough resources and money to do their tasks in a highly satisfactory way. I have noticed that the Workers' Party writes in its comments the following: ‘These members are committed to strengthening municipal economic autonomy.’ Furthermore, I have noticed that in their joint comments, the government parties have a similar wording that says that ‘the government’s objective is to facilitate a good economy in the municipal sector’. This needs to be heard positively for both rapporteurs and municipal councillors across the whole country, those who have long complained about little money to the municipalities. There's a majority here for a big deal for the municipalities. But it's just that the comments I'm quoting from, with the big words of strengthening and creating a good local economy in the budget agreement between the two partners, resulted in a microscopic symbolization of something like 0.3 pst. in the budget. So it's something that, in real economic terms, is suitable for a particular strengthening or improvement of the local economy. However, one should note the comments made by the Labour Party and the government parties in the vote, that the debate on Norwegian municipal policy is too focused on getting more and more money for the municipalities. But more money for the municipalities is not necessarily the solution, as I see it, because the municipalities have never had more money to travel with than they do today. The error is not in thin municipal wallets, but in the organisational and operational structure of Norwegian municipalities. It is not useful to inject more money into an obsolete establishment and monopoly system that does not provide the right incentives for the rational and efficient use of resources. The obsolete municipal establishment structure and the local authority's protected monopoly position in the field of service production have resulted in municipal activities being unable to use resources rationally and efficiently. This is a challenge. Within a public monopoly system, where competition and market management are absent, there is no pressing need to operate efficiently and rationally, but this must be based on innovation and real change. The Norwegian municipalities have therefore gradually entered the behind. This is due to the fact that the political majority continues to dissociate ideological and political leaders in connection with the professional power struggle of the Commune Federation, and it has effectively prevented a process of more efficient conversion work, primarily based on competitive postponement and market governance in the municipalities. Due to the approximate monopoly position of municipalities in operating, for example, municipal technical services, elderly care and schools, municipalities have not had the same need to think about costs and quality as they do, and have done, in the private sector. And today we see the results. The money flows into the municipalities, but the system means that the municipalities are unable to use the money rationally and efficiently. It can't go on like that. The municipalities have to renew themselves in the pact with the time we are in. Municipalities must play along with the development of society around us. People today demand increased quality at the right price also from the public. And the question is, does a sheltered business like that? The main problem for Norwegian municipalities, therefore, is not a lack of money, but a lack of political will to release the potential for efficiency in opening up competition and market management, and to increase the diversity of offers and freedom of choice for citizens. This will produce far better results in the long term than simply injecting even more money into the municipal sector.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e985	The State Council of Enoxsen was challenged on 2 December in the ‘Policy Quarter’ to give an example of how the Government has steered social development. What I was able to understand from the interview, and which was also the journalist's conclusion, was that after two years of work, the government would do something about district policy. So it is not lacking on purpose. What the Labour Party calls for, as was also done during the financial debate, is the political capacity to take the necessary steps in social governance. For the Workers' Party, it is important that authorities have a range of instruments that support a social development where the objective of maintaining the main features of the housing pattern is an important element. The municipal income system is such an instrument, perhaps the most important means of distribution policy for policy makers. It must be fair, at the same time as it should be so that, wherever you live in the country, you have access to the public service that meets the needs of business and individuals. A varied business life is the best prerequisite for maintaining the main features of the housing pattern. At the same time, industry itself, together with the authorities, must contribute to a more knowledge-oriented business. There is cause for concern, as the Government also writes in the budget proposal, when research shows that the business life of districts is significantly below the average for the proportion of employees with higher education. I agree with the Government that, in cooperation with the SND, will guide the existing instruments more effectively towards the knowledge-intensive industries. The biggest challenge in the fight to maintain the housing pattern will eventually be the struggle for competence. If we can't meet this challenge, the risk of getting a knowledge-based class division, which in addition will be geographically dependent, will be great. I think it is good and necessary for the Government to use relatively large resources in district and regional policy. But I have to say that the effort is too much target-oriented. This is also not easy, because overall social development is moving in many ways in the opposite direction. On the one hand, we spend a lot of resources on a regional policy initiative, on the other hand, we make structural changes in state-owned enterprises where the consequences are centralisation, often to larger centres. Therefore, no one sees the district policy reverse operation to which the government parties like to refer. In the last two years, the Workers' Party has warned the Government against the development we would then come within the offshore activities along the coast. These are establishments not only located in District Norway, but there are often corner stone holdings in the many communities now affected. I am pleased that the Workers' Party has included the government parties in a business package specifically designed for the offshore yards, the supplier industry and, in particular, the subcontracting industry. However, the problem is that the measures are too late, and too many forces agree to repair. Instead, the government should have acted in advance, been able to prevent and stimulate structural change, change and innovation. We can't expect people to live in local communities where jobs and life bases are torn away under one's feet. The government has also proposed two changes to the different employer’s tax scheme. One concerns changes in the geographical scope where 14 municipalities receive a higher tax rate and 39 municipalities receive a lower tax rate. The background for these changes is set out in the ESA Decision of 2 July 1998, which reads: ‘The Authority is not satisfied that regional transport aid is justified for all municipalities currently covered by Zone 2...’;» Then they refer to some states. It is possible that the government has made the right assessments, but the Stortinget put it in a forced situation, where the Stortinget had to adopt a change The Government had negotiated with the EU. And I remember that the Authority didn't say we had to make changes, but they weren't convinced that the system we had, which affected named states, was right. It was in many ways a challenge for the Government to convince the Authority that the arrangement we had was correct. Industry and the public sector in the 14 municipalities are facing unforeseen expenditure of 245 million. kr annually as a result of this change. There is reason to criticise the Government and the Council of State for misrepresentation and poor communication with the municipalities affected before the decision was taken. I would therefore like to briefly point out that there is broad agreement within the Committee that the Government should return to the Grand Duchy, at the latest in the context of the revised national budget, with an assessment of possible measures to compensate for the increased costs incurred by municipalities and businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e1012	In our general remarks, the Right has explained its desire to shift the economic effort from a broad, comprehensive rural policy to a general framework for business – especially small and medium-sized enterprises – and to infrastructure, accessibility on the road. Last Saturday, some of us spent the whole day rehearsing and documenting the need to complete the road system “Jakobsen’s incomplete ones”, which it is said to be hauntingly in connection with a former Minister of Transport. The situation of this road and bridge section in Dalsfjorden in Sunnfjord is an example of the consequence of reprioritizing locally, followed by drought in the allocations of national roads. In addition to this, and pending the use of county roads, the fishing industry in the same area tempts a miserable existence of irregular ferries which would preferably have been replaced by interlocking county roads. It is in such areas that our export values are created. Right-wing policy is just about caring for the interests of these creative business environments. Enhanced living and working conditions and improved opportunities for the transport of raw materials and products are a more offensive and effective way of meeting tomorrow than just having a constant fear of short-coming labour market measures in an unemployment situation. In the course of the year's completed questionnaires in this room, the Workers' Party has constantly seen gloomy future unemployment rates, which fortunately have not yet manifested themselves in reality. In this perspective of possible unemployment, I do not remember hearing representatives of social democracy call for in principle better framework conditions for business as the most effective measures. No, an unshakable belief in labour market measures has brought some from a time of formidable resource use in this sector. We believe that skills are to a large extent to be acquired in the education sector and that competition on the rental and distribution side will increase flexibility in the labour market. It also has a section on the issue of cohesion policy. We in the Right have registered the desire of the Government and the majority to increase the power of the Sameting. On the right, we have seen the value of the increasingly management of the Sameting system of resources and regulations relating exclusively to cohabitation, culture, language and peculiarity. The majority have neither previously nor now been willing to state that this should not be at the expense of the non-Samian population. It is therefore necessary to read the proposed extension of the powers of the Sameting with scepticism of the non-Samian population, for example. pending the processing of the suspension of the Joint Committee. This also applies to issues related to the Mineral Act. Finally, the right looks forward to a more general debate on the Committee's work in the coming year. I hope that loss compensation related to the municipal income system can be made superfluous through critical changes. On the basis of the Right’s proposal, it also appears that the Task Distribution Committee will extend its mandate to include the principleal existence of the county municipality. Thus, it is also very gratifying that today's county seems to be captivated by its political moorings, and we in the Right will, of course, market the other two levels of government. Should we get concrete results from this debate, an exciting side effect would be that we get increased focus on the need for a robust and competent primary municipality. On the right, we want some political carrots to encourage the necessary changes here too. From my point of view, there is no doubt that public resource use will become more targeted if we stop introducing municipalities solely to be small.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e1027	As a consequence of the budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties, municipalities are getting more and more routed next year – not enough, but a little more, so that it is a little easier to get the municipal budgets sewn together. Despite this increase, local politicians have a tough job and freedom of action is very limited. Cuts and cancellations are not to be avoided, it looks like. And the concern is that the users of the municipal services are becoming the losers. I will take one example, not from my own municipality, Jevnaker, but from the neighbouring municipality of Lunner. Since 1989, Lunner has belonged to the low-income municipalities. They looked forward to the Rattsø Committee's proposal to redeploy some funds to strengthen the low-income municipalities. It'll be waiting. Compares a Lunner with other low-income municipalities – with the municipalities of Uppland County and in the rest of the country, except Oslo – Lunner has the lowest income per year. builds up and operates the cheapest. Lunner municipality also loses so much on the proposal for ongoing income balancing. The transition to this system will result in a sharp reduction in free income. They are therefore faced with a very demanding task, and now, in their distress, have proposals for the introduction of property taxes – for high-sounding protests from the citizens. Of course, property taxes are an unused source of income for many municipalities. As long as it is not possible to decide in Stortinget whether to introduce property taxes, it shall apply to all residents of the municipality. Only then will it be easier to get it introduced, and people will have easier to accept it. Today’s system is therefore unfair in its device. We experience the frustrations in the municipalities. One billion additional municipalities now receive is like a drop in the sea in relation to the tasks the municipalities are required to do. I believe that if we continue to have a strong public sector and good public services, we will not have to give more money to the municipalities, combined with regulatory simplification and modernisation of services. An active attitude to introduce a fairer property tax should, in my view, be looked at as soon as possible by the Government and the Minister for Municipalities. In the vote on page 6, a majority of the Committee called for a necessary review of the municipal income system. That's enough of evidence that it seems unfortunate to a number of municipalities. I look forward to what the Minister of State thinks he can do to ensure a more balanced distribution of the total income of the local government sector, and how soon he will come back with a review of the transitional arrangements used in the income system. For many municipalities, not only Lunner, it is not enough with understanding and good words – they hard facts are: more money. Developments in the domestic Uppland and Hedmark counties are in a way a different side of the same issue. The better the counties and municipalities here will be able to gain new start-ups and empowerment from the inhabitants, the better it is. The ‘Morgen Land’ project, partly financed by the Ministry of Local Affairs, is a conversion programme to contribute to growth in all regions of Oppland and Hedmark. The higher education environments in the inland region need to be strengthened; there needs to be a better interaction between these environments and other knowledge environments. Conversion is needed due to industrial structure, employment and population development, in the light of a future competitive international market. This project must be followed up by the Department, so that the desired results actually come, and so that this project, like many others, does not become a project where the money has been spent, many have been employed – but the results are not. So finally some words about the employer's fee. When new zones and maps of employers’ fees are drawn, there are always some new differences. I am pleased that the Nord-Gudbrandsdalen and Valdres in Uppland benefit from a reduced employer’s fee, but where neighbouring municipalities – which are part of a common labour market – do not benefit from the reduction, there are only new differences. The north country, the south country, and the south-fron are such. How long we can wait with a complete conversion of the employer's fee, I will not predict, but that it is under pressure both internally in my own country and from outside, is a fact.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e1049	The budgetary agreement between the central government and the Labour Party leads to a better distribution policy and more money for the local government sector. Increasing the availability of revenue will give local politicians greater power to give priority to a tight budget in the municipalities. If we had once again received a government budget with a strong influence from the Right and the Advance Party, we would have a weak community economy, and we would have had a greater inequality between people, unless we were well-being in the municipal sector. The most important thing that can be done in relation to the 2000 budget is to smooth out the differences and adopt a budget that ensures higher employment, lower interest rates and the implementation of a more equitable taxation. These three areas are important for the Labour Party's policy in the future, and that policy must be pursued. The ageing rate in the municipal sector is important. Statistics show that the number of older people will increase sharply in the future. In 2020, there are more than 1.2 million people over 60 years of age. These developments result in an increase in the number of older and fewer economically active people in the country. This will lead to an increasing need for care and care services, and will make it necessary to strengthen public confidence. The number of population aged over 80 is an important indicator of the need for care for the elderly. And in the planning context, it is therefore important that developments in this population group are carefully analysed. The aim of the elderly effort is for municipalities to develop holistic services that can be easily adapted to different needs of the population and of the individual user. This should ensure that municipalities should give priority to the weak links in the action chain. In a number of municipalities, it may appear that a rather bet on more of what you already have than to make offers that they lack. In the future, it is therefore important that municipalities assess what kind of services you need to establish in order to have a good enough total supply of care for the elderly. The challenge for local politicians in the future must be that one can create a varied and flexible service provision in the care and care services sector. We need to have a care chain that covers everything from a few hours of help in the home to nursing homes or other boutes, more institutional places in nursing homes and an extension of care services to full-time care and one to those who want it. I am pleased that the elderly effort will also be followed up in the government budget for next year, and that the Committee has comments on this. We must not forget that a major goal for the elderly is that they should live in their own homes for as long as possible. This is often the best offer for the elderly to thrive and stay healthy. Measures that I believe may be useful in that respect include a number of day-care services and various preventive measures, a variety of activities, a variety of short-term spaces and provision of rehabilitation, unloading and other services for relatives and the provision of homes with special problems. I then think of older people who may have had some behavioral difficulties due to aging, and who may be difficult to deal with for their relatives. The community economy and the operation of the elderly care system are two factors that are inextricably linked to each other. The major challenges for municipalities, therefore, will be to provide care for the elderly in a good way within the financial framework that is being provided. It is also absolutely crucial that a person can provide sufficient and appropriate staff. I would like to point out some areas that concern health professionals, which I hope the Minister for the Interior will take with me: it is that a secure financial framework for operations so that anyone who needs help can get it, regardless of the type of housing or the municipality in which they live. One must recruit enough staff at a time of increasing needs and of failing recruitment to the professional care professions. One also needs to stimulate the provision of a wide range of services to care for the elderly in the future with a highly multidisciplinary professional environment. This seniorization is just a little over two years since we got started. So there's a lot that can happen in the future, which is clear from the plantations of the municipalities. Many municipalities will still make choices that have a significant impact on the population in the future, and so there should be many interesting discussions and exciting planning processes in the future. However, it is also absolutely necessary that the municipal sector should have a framework from the state with which the municipalities can live, which can provide the provision for the elderly that the Stortinget has told them to do.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e1078	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e1081	In the government’s budget line, the disabled are a priority target group. Over the last few years, we have stepped up efforts towards people with disabilities, and in the 2000 budget proposal we have proposed to continue this effort. I am pleased that the Committee is joining this priority. I still need to comment on some points in the setting. The Committee stresses the importance of improving and simplifying measures in relation to the disabled. I would like to refer here to the work we have undertaken to review the structure of measures for both ordinary and disabled workers with a view to simplification. The starting point for work is the needs of users and that, by making use of resources, we are able to get the most jobseekers into an active situation in work or education. Work on the review of the structure of measures needs to be based on comprehensive analyses and careful reflections and will therefore need to take some time. The Committee also states that some aid rates over many years have not been adjusted in line with real cost developments and recommends increasing rates in order to provide real cost coverage. The Government is concerned that the measures are designed to meet the needs of users and contribute to a successful transition to and integration into normal working life. In my opinion, the rates of aid are essentially adapted to such an objective. I would also like to point out that if one or more aid rates are raised, this would have to be at the expense of the number of job-impaired areas of action. In my opinion, it would be undesirable to reduce the provision of action places for people with disabilities. I would also like to point out that it will be difficult to implement substantial changes in the rates of aid from the turn of the year. The Department's instructions to the Directorate of Labour on the implementation of labour market policy for next year will therefore be based on the current year's rates of aid with a normal price adjustment. However, I would like to ask the Directorate of Labour to review the rates of aid and, if necessary, to adjust them. In the work undertaken to simplify the structure of measures, it will also be appropriate to assess the rates of aid and, of course, the Ministry will have to keep up with the implementation of labour market policies and deal with any problems that may arise in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e1094	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e1097	I want to get back to the plot at the old Rikshospital. Here, the government has an opportunity to rule politically to solve some of the housing problems for young and disadvantaged people in Oslo, but instead, state council says that it is the municipalities that are going to facilitate land use and housing plans. The State Council responsible for housing Enoksen therefore shifts responsibility for the sale of land by Stadsbygs at the Rikshospitale to the State Council. This is not how the Government can do it. It is not only political denial of the grip in relation to housing, it is also disclaimer of responsibility. The government is taking the market price. How can we ask the municipalities not to do so? It is necessary for the State to set a good example – then we can require some of the municipalities, both in terms of plans and reasonable plots. Don't you see?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e1102	Of course, municipalities have primary responsibility for facilitating housing, which the Danish Council of State, Mr Enoksen, pointed out earlier today. At the same time, the State has tried to be helpful in some of the contexts of state property. After the representative Sylvia Brustad asked me a question in the oral questionnaire, I went back to my department and looked at what had been done, and what we could possibly do about Pilestredet Park. It turns out that property which has been regulated for dwellings by municipal authorities has been sold by Stadsbyggen to dwellings. The task of state-building is primarily to manage and acquire state property for public use, which we still still need in the Oslo region, and of course we are trying to run long-term planning. In the case of Pilestredet Park directly, the sales process has come too far until we can reverse it, so to speak, it is finished in these days. We also have a disposal instructions adopted at kgl. Resolution and subject to which State Buildings have also been subject in this sales process. The last is that the sale of the properties in Pilestredet Park, which is now to be sold, is also included in the budget as a source of income. So it's a little late to do something about exactly these properties. But we're still going to try to be helpful to the extent that we can. I would also like to refer to the housing committee that will be set up from 1 January, where we might be able to take some overall action.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e1111	It concerns ASVO sites. I have received a number of enquiries from municipalities that believe that they have a sub-recovery here and need to get more of that type of space in their municipality. This is something the municipalities have to apply for, among other things. the county employment office, and it has been a serious problem for many municipalities that they have at last not been able to get the funds to create perhaps 5-20 of the places that I am referring to here. This is a type of place that is very important to those concerned. Here it is often about people who may never be able to function and get into normal work. For my part, I would be happy if the Council of State could promise to attend when questions are asked from the interlocutory office whether there is a possibility of doing something about the undercoverage that exists in relation to this type of job, ASVO workplaces. I think that, as I said, there is a great need, and the information I have from several municipalities suggests that in some municipalities it is rather precarious. Some have contacted me for a longer time and are unsure that they do not receive state subsidies to create this type of place.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e1118	Several locations are requested within ASVO companies. There have also been indications from the Committee that there is a desire for an increase in labour market enterprise rates. We're looking for a comprehensive, flexible offer from the Department for those who need it. We're not in the department per. Today, there are problems with getting more places, and the department has also not reported to the department that there are problems in implementing the action activity within the ASVO companies. I would like to point out – as I also said in my article – that we are now going to review the entire action structure once again. What I am concerned about is that the measures we have at all times should be flexible, simple and adapted to users as much as possible. We're going to try to make an improvement, and this is the goal we have.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e1127	A joint note from the Progress Party and the Right points to the fact that disability rates continue to increase and that unemployment among people with disabilities does not show particularly positive developments despite the efforts made through the workline and despite other labour market measures. It points to the possibility of reorganisation, where you can also imagine bringing in other operators in relation to these special groups. I would like to ask the Council of State: although private employment services are now going to be allowed, does the Council of State have a fundamental counter-representation in setting aside such tasks and bringing other actors into this work?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e1134	In the case of disabled people at work and on measures, we have had a measure in the labour market set of at least 75 pst. of the disabled at all times must be in action, which we have also been able to achieve. We've also said that at least 50 pst. will move to active solutions after recycling, and it is also a measure that we have managed to maintain. In other words, we think that we have done a relatively good job, but it can probably never be good enough. So to this with private actors. It is true that we have an embellishment on the stairs – the case is dealt with in Stortinget – in terms of private placement and private hiring of labour. We have not decided by the Department whether to privatise this part of the labour market. I cannot therefore answer that directly to the representative either. In that case, it would have to lead to a more detailed discussion. It's communication and rental we've been thinking about privatizing in this round.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e1141	First of all, housing policy, which is an important theme: does the Council of State think that the Government has an offensive enough attitude towards housing policy? It seems that it has not thought through how to use the land and property of the state to solve one of the most precarious problems we have, namely the lack of land, and then land where people want to live. There may also be reason to remind the Workers' Party that there is a proposal from the SV in the municipal setting, which they – after this they have run as they have against the Government at this point – should consider supporting. We have a proposal that just goes on how to use the land and property assets of the state to promote investment in both permanent and temporary dwellings. One of the major challenges in the future is how we can have a pay and employer policy in the municipal sector in particular, which will enable us to manage our reforms. So one of the points is that we have to have a good paycheck in the future. So far, the government and the majority of the population have compensated for the krone wage settlements carried out in the state sector, while the municipal settlements have not been compensated in the same way – on the contrary, there has been a gap of over one billion dollars. Not even the pay bill implemented by the State, e.g. teachers’ settlement, has been compensated in the local government sector. It has put the municipalities in a very difficult situation, where they have to cut teaching and put on the prostheses in relation to kindergartens, i.e. cut off services for the population to finance the necessary wage settlement. Does the Council of State now see the need for a new policy in this area, so as to eliminate this unfair discrimination between state and municipal activities and to compensate for wage settlements in the same way both in the state and in the municipal sectors?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e1152	With regard to housing policy and the issue of whether the Government has an offensive enough attitude, there may be a lot of opinions from representatives about it. In any case, I would like to point out once again that we are setting up a housing committee where we are of course going to try to take a comprehensive approach to housing policy, and we are also working on housing policy by the Government. As far as my responsibilities as the Council of State and the management of state properties managed by State Buildings are concerned, they are not primarily managed for the purpose of housing. They are used for public purposes — whether the ministry needs office space or hospitals and colleges. We actually have some unmet needs also within the public sector, and that's what the state's properties are primarily going to do. So I said in one of my previous posts that very many of the state's properties that are regulated into residential property, we've actually sold out. That doesn't mean we don't have to worry about whether it's still possible to do it in the future. As far as staffing is concerned, it is clear that we have major problems related to recruitment there, and we also have major challenges related to salary-setting, which are imminent. I am very pleased that we have the Arntsen Committee and have got commitments from the social partners that the framework has been laid for the settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e1167	The Labour Party has increased labour market measures by almost 50 pst through the budget agreement. We believe that this was necessary because the forecasts indicate that the unemployment rate will increase, and that we have received a doubling of the number of people who have left off only in the last year. My question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State think that it is the level that is now being adopted, 11,000 on measures, which is the appropriate and necessary level to meet the increasing unemployment, or does the Council of State consider that it is the level at which the Government provided, which is sufficient and correct? I expect the Council of State has noticed that a unanimous committee, including the government parties, believes that in the context of the psychiatry reform there will be a need for many more places in the ASVO and labour market companies, and asks the Government to return to this in an appropriate way. There must be a misunderstanding when the Council of State does not know that there is a need for ASVO sites outside the municipalities. We're getting a lot of enquiries about that. Then I would like to ask: how and when will the Council follow up this majority remark? Does the Minister share the Committee's view that, in the context of psychiatry reform, there is a need for many more places in ASVO companies and labour market enterprises? As far as the State Council is concerned, in its statement that substantial changes in the rates of aid, as mentioned in the suspension, will go beyond the number of places, my advice is to the Council of State: Remember that there is something called the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e1181	On the first question, I would just like to refer to the Government's budget, where it is said that in terms of labour market measures, there will in any case be a return to the revised national budget, and there will be careful monitoring of developments in the development of the labour market. We will also do so with the level of action included in the agreement. We'll have to do it at any time. None of us know exactly if that's enough, neither what we had, nor what's now here. With regard to the future psychiatry reform and needs, there is no doubt, and I agree with the representative that there is a need for more actions related to this group. It is also one of the reasons why the Government of the Cohesion Communication has provided a number of new measures, including: wage and salary subsidies for a number of vulnerable groups for longer periods, and the combination of measures and social security in a different and better way than in the past through some trials. With regard to the measures to be taken, we will also need to assess and evaluate, as we have also written in the budget, which measures are most appropriate for the different groups. So when the evaluation we're going to do, and not least the overall review we're going to have, is done, we're going to know exactly what we're going to go for in a slightly longer-term perspective. This does not mean that we are not going to come back to Stortinget as soon as we can review the need for action sites specifically aimed at ASVO companies, but the large, comprehensive review I cannot promise to make until we have carried out such an evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e1190	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e1193	As presented both by the financial setting and by the budget setting of the Municipal Committee, the Stortinget has joined the Government's proposal to change the geographical areas of activity for differentiated employer fees. With the changes and the currently notified scheme, a differentiated employer’s fee can be identified as an EEA legal instrument, which can still be used as part of national, regional and district policies. However, the change adopted will result in business and local authorities in 14 municipalities that have received a higher tax after the adjustment have incurred unexpected expenditures of around 245 million. kr on an annual basis. Particular attention should be paid to the fact that the employer’s side of these municipalities has not been able to adapt to a higher level of fees. This increase not only happens to the private sector, but also to the municipal sector as an employer. The government wrote in St. pp. No 1 on the Tax, Tax and Customs Decision that a higher employer’s fee will lead to an increase in labour costs in some municipalities, and that the Government states that this should be taken into account in the allocation of clientele over the municipal income system. I mean, budget-inner. S. No 1 for 1999-2000, the majority of the Committee, all the non-participants in the Progress Party, the Right and the Left Party, will ask the following: ‘The majority ask the Government of the Revised National Budget to make proposals for various compensation measures to improve infrastructure, enhance local business skills and promote regional development as part of a shift towards a higher charge. The local economy must also be followed up. On this basis, the majority will join the Government’s proposal.’ In the case of the additional wage costs in the municipal sector, the majority of the Stortinget Government shares the view that this must be compensated in an appropriate way and, in my opinion, so that the municipalities in question, in a letter from the Ministry, are familiar with the compensation, so that the municipality can take account of it in the context of the budgetary work for the year 2000. As this is a particularly important matter to clarify now and get familiar with the 14 municipalities it is owed, I ask the Council of State to confirm how well to orient the municipalities, and what economic scope it is said to compensate for when it applies to the calendar year 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e1213	Will the income system for municipalities and counties ever be fair? I'm afraid there will be more than two answers to that question. I have noted that someone in this room is discussing fair distribution on the basis of the profit principle. It is believed that areas in our country that contribute to the export of goods have earned huge transfers from the state. The size has for a long time left business in the areas of our country that contribute particularly to value creation through exports. These include: measures such as freight subsidies and differentiated employer fees. This has been necessary to maintain such activities in many places. The differentiated employer’s fee also benefits many municipalities – not so that they run some kinds of exports, but 60-70 pst. expenditure in municipal activities is paid. Reduced employer charges will therefore have a major impact on the business. In the Rattsø Committee sub-position 1: ‘The differentiated employer’s fee may be the main source of differences in compensation of employees between municipalities and counties, and a high employer’s fee is considered to be an involuntary cost disadvantage for each municipality and county.’ From this point of view, a differentiated employer’s fee should not contribute to different standards of municipal and county services. It is therefore right to compensate for this difference through the cost equalization. The Rattsø Committee chose not to take this into account in its proposal, based on regional policy considerations. Justice does not increase for that reason. The effect of a reduced employer’s fee on municipal activities must be made visible and included in the cost equalisation. The second relationship that contributes to the unfair distribution of funds to municipalities and counties is the loss compensation. The municipalities and county councils designated as ‘Rattsø winners’ are receiving increasing annual reductions in the population grant as a result of contributions to the increasing loss compensation. Here Stortinget has done one too bad job, or we should say that we have not completed the job. 12 municipalities in Akershus and 14 out of 15 municipalities in Vestfold are thus net contributors to the loss compensation. The amount of the Westfold municipalities corresponds to the cost of paying, for example: 200 teachers. If the employer’s fee had been abolished, 30 more teachers could have been added for the same sum. There will be no basis for equivalent public services with such schemes. In our eagerness to stop the movement flow from the districts, we must not forget our responsibility for those who have already moved.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e1229	The municipal economy is important for everyone. The economy of the municipality that each of us lives in is crucial to many things in our everyday lives. I am therefore pleased that the Labour Party and the Government agreed on a budgetary agreement that strengthens the local economy significantly in relation to the original government budget proposal. In the health sector, the Stortinget has adopted multi-sectoral escalation plans, to be followed up and implemented in municipalities and counties. Both the Action Plan for the Disabled and the Psychiatric Surgery Surgery Programme emphasises the importance of being at work. There is a link between labour income and living standards, and it is important for the individual's self-esteem to participate in the community at work. We are very pleased that the Government has followed up the intention of the psychiatry escalation plan by adding a total of 27 million. D on the Ministry of Labour and Administration's budget for the strengthening of the work of the State of Labour for people with mental health problems, and that EUR 18 million. the amount under State measures is allocated to the strengthening of labour market measures over the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Administration, as referred to in the chapter of the budget of the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs for the year 2000. In order for people with mental disorders to be able to work, there is a need to make some effort in the systems that exist, and new models need to be developed. In this context, the Fontenehus model, known from the United States and Sweden, can be mentioned. The model is described in the settings of the psychiatry escalating plan. The Fontenehuset organises, among others. a transitional work. Transitional work is a model where work has been agreed on in ordinary enterprises for people who have a disease that makes them unstable. This gives them the opportunity to work, and when they are unable to meet, another person comes to work. In this way, the employer may also have the security to carry out the work, and for those people who need this work, a job will be created through this model. I am pleased that a consultation note is being drafted with proposals for longer-term wage subsidies for people with disabilities, who have variable working capacity and have no prospect of prompt improvement as a result of muscle pain or mental illness. The possibility of a grant scheme for employers for temporary reductions in the working capacity of employees is necessary for this to be implemented. I would also like to mention ASVO and AMB companies, which have experience and competence in developing work adapted to people who, for various reasons, have reduced their working capacity. It would be sensible to develop specifically adapted work in these enterprises. I am pleased with the signals given by the minister here, and hope that we will also receive further signals about such new models.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e1246	It's said that some people are so impulsive that they don't know what they're saying until they hear themselves say it. It must be worse if people don't know what they're saying before they hear the Party of Advancement say it! I have to say I fell asleep today when Lodve Solholm went up to the pulpit and said that I had said that we can't turn the moving power around, and that we can't stop the moving power. In these days, there's a series on children's TV about the blizzards. One of the niches is called Twin. He's born backwards, and that means he's talking backwards, but it seems to go smoothly in the bluetongue world. But in the political world, I think the language is very important. This does not apply to the same rules for mathematics and Norwegian. In mathematics, we know that the order of the factors doesn't matter; in Norwegian, on the other hand, it's very important in what order the words come in. I believe that today I have said it this way: If we can't stop, we can't turn around, we have to brake at least. I support myself all the way to the State Council's interpretation, where he indicates that we take this step by step: we brake, we stop, we turn. And so I would like to make a small rejection of a serious accusation from the SV representative Karin Andersen, who claimed that I did not take the problems of the employer's fee seriously. I referred to the problems that many municipalities have experienced, and I referred to the joint comment of the government parties and the Labour Party in the budget position, but I brought with me another sentence that has not been included in the budget position, where I stressed that the municipal economy must be followed up with those municipalities. I believe that it is taking the matter seriously, and I really demand to be taken seriously when I speak from this pulpit. The EEA has given us many challenges. Many have asked if we have sold our fish too expensive. All things, however, have several sides. The EEA may have saved us from EU membership, which would have been the worst option. For the Central Party, self-determination and local self-government are very important; however, I think international commitments and international cooperation are also very important in important areas. The EU is a top bureaucratic, heavy-duty and costly system. I expect that the system over time breaks down by its own weight. In the meantime, it is important for the Centre Party to keep Norway outside the EU and to find the best possible political and practical solutions to the restrictions that the EEA imposes on us. I am not in doubt that the Government we have now has shown, and will still show, that it is able to govern in this difficult waters. The best thing we can have in this situation, after all, is a no-regiering, which we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e1259	It could have been a bit tempting to start with the last post here, but I should rather assume that the Council of State Enoxsen is a happy boy. He said several times in his post that he was pleased with several of the points on which the centre parties in Stortinget and the Workers' Party have agreed. There are completely new tones in the Central Party and the Municipal Economy. It was in the mention of the local economy that the main criticism of the previous government was perhaps made – when Enoxen was a general representative of the big business and the Central Party here in Stortinget stated how bad it was in Kommune-Norge and about the blessing it would be for Kommune-Norge if you just got a government change. But it has well been as the representative Kvalbukt now said: First they have slowed down, then they have stopped, and then they have turned around – in terms of the municipal economy. For while the criticism was strong against the Workers' Party earlier, after the change of government, it has actually gone in such a way that the deficit has increased and the debt has increased as the central government has cooperated with the Right Party and the Advance Party. But now they've turned around. That's why there's a good reason why the Council of State, Enoxen, is to be a happy boy. There is good reason for a government council that has received NOK 1 billion more to spend on the municipal sector than what he and his government thought was necessary. That's good reason for him to be happy. That's why it's nice that he is, too. So Kaka grew larger than the government thought was necessary for distribution in the municipal sector. But I have to admit, I'm quite as glad as the municipal minister, maybe we're not in the Labour Party, because we'd like to see that the cake was a little bit bigger. But it was now as far as we were able to get in these negotiations. What we were very little pleased about, at least from the financial fraction, was that we didn't get the center of our financial position when we took up the problem of distribution between municipalities. We had there a formulation that, at Storting’s treatment of the municipal economic proposition, we would have a “instant review” of the distribution between municipalities in order to follow up the intentions of the Rattsø Committee. What many people have said here is that some municipalities, not least around Oslofjord – Akershus and Vestfold have been mentioned – come out too badly and now have to get their fair treatment. But we didn't get that comment in the financial position. I am pleased that the centre has been included in a similar note on the budget of the Ministry of Local Affairs, which is being discussed here today. But I wish the Council of State could confirm that the intentions of the Rattsø Committee will be followed up, and I allow myself to ask that question to the Council of State, as I assume that he must come up here anyway when he has received questions from his party trap Jørgen Holte.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e1270	I want to comment on some of the things that have been said about housing policy, and especially because we have two government councils here that are both responsible for housing policy in Norway. I feel that, after the article, especially the Swedish Council of State, Davøy has held here, the Government is depriving itself of the responsibility of the Government for the government to also pursue an active housing policy. Several speakers from the Workers' Party have taken up the example of the old National Hospital, which is to become the new Pilestreet Park, where we have proposed that one of the plots, or one of the blocks, be left at a reasonable price to a housing complex and thus converted into rentals for young people. State Council Davøy said that everything would be spent on the highest bid, because the process had come too far. To that I would like to say that it is a while since the Workers' Party first took up this, and it was actually before the bidding round had ended. So the Council of State Deaf said that it would have budgetary effects and was not included in the budget. It is true, of course, that it would have cost the state a few dollars to help some of the young people who can't afford to buy a dwelling in Oslo might have gotten it through this. The government had the opportunity to get through the work on the financial situation, because where the Workers' Party took this up, but there we got no. When it happens that one does not go in for an empty, or a block, at the old rickshospital plot to be reserved for young people, it is going to be the Holmenkol lock on the flatland. This means that the government does not use concrete opportunities to actually offer a reasonable dwelling to those who need it the most. I don't think I'm very wrong if I say that an apartment there on approx. 100 m2 will cost between 2 and 3 million. kr. There are not many young people, and in particular not disadvantaged in the housing market, who have a nubjesjesse to get a living in one of Oslo's most attractive strokes. Therefore, we regret to note that the Government does not act in this context when the Government can act, and that it chooses not to go from talking to practice when it has the opportunity, because here the Government could do something concrete if the Government would. I think that's very regrettable, especially when we know how many problems young people in this town have in getting housing, and when we also know that there are about 7,000 people in this country who don't have a permanent place to live. Finally, let me ask the Council of State Davøy, who said earlier in a reply to me that she will now go through the housing stock on which the State is otherwise sitting, to see if any of it can be transformed into homes for young people: What is the driving plan for that process?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e1285	After the last article, I again need to ask the Workers' Party whether it is such that the Workers' Party can imagine supporting proposal No. 2, from SV, which is on page 42, where it says: ‘The government asks the Government to propose how the land and property stock of the country can be actively used to promote increased investment both in permanent and temporary dwellings.’ Now the representative Brustad has been up here and said that the government is not using the possibilities. Isn't it right, if we think they're going to use these possibilities, to propose it? It might also be interesting to know if there had not been a more correct use of the plot area, for example. in Fornebu to convert it into housing, when the situation in the area is as precarious as it is, and not outsourced the area to an activity which in its essence should have been decentralised and spread across the whole country to universities and research environments. So to the differentiated employer fees. I am pleased with Enoch's answer to that question instead. I believe that almost only Enoch has understood the seriousness of the EFTA judgment and of the major changes that are now directly affecting our district policy. The Labour Party makes a point of the minor changes in this matter, i.e. the changes between municipalities – and that is bad enough for those affected. However, the point is that this scheme is only temporarily approved until 2003, and the whole scheme is to be re-notified. Then it's a pretty risky one when the majority won't agree to a proposal that we should get this case up to its fullest width and get in front of us the fundamental changes that the judgment has brought, and that we get to put on the table a case that allows us to find other ways to maintain the level of support and differentiation. I have to say I am a little shocked that the majority has not understood the seriousness of the matter. So how we can recruit and keep enough staff in the municipal sector, which is one of the most important things we should discuss in the future. I record that the Minister of Labour and Administration says that she is pleased that these salary increases are now to be kept within 3.5 p.m., which is the recommendation of the Arntsen Committee. Then I also record that the Minister of Labour and Administration is quite pleased that we are not able to recruit and keep enough people either for the health sector or for school and education. Because that's the bitter reality. There will be a shortage of labour in these sectors, and if it is not that we can then have pay and working conditions that are such that young people can imagine starting in these professions, we will be standing without people to solve these important tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e1300	At the end of the debate as rapporteur for Mrs Sametinget, I would like to make a few comments on the matter itself. The merger is the main pre-missive provider for the common policies of the authorities. By decision on the Basic Law § 110a and the approval of international agreements on the rights of indigenous peoples, the Storting has facilitated the self-determination of the Sami population in defined areas. I say this as a comment to Right Sverre J. Hoddevik, who said in his intervention: the attitude of the majority of the committee must be read 'with scepticism of the non-Samian population'. I am going to assume that the Stortinge took the joint law with the greatest seriousness and very consciously in 1987, and that the same was the case when in April 1988 we adopted an addendum to the Basic Law – the Constitution § 110a – and when the Sami population got its velveting in the autumn of 1989. It is regrettable that the Right, by not taking part in natural comments, gives the impression of being in the direction of the Progress Party on co-political issues. For the Workers' Party, it has been important to contribute to the provision of good work opportunities to the Sami groupings in the Sameting, in the same way that we are committed to having it by the party groups in the Stortinget. I am pleased that we have brought with us the government parties on a small increase in the appropriations to improve the economic basis of the work of the political groups in the Sameting. I would also like to ask the Government to ensure that work is continued on the position of the Joint Committee, because there are still more and more issues in the border country regarding indigenous rights with regard to international obligations undertaken by Norway. The representative Sverre J. Hoddevik was involved in such a case in the border country, namely the Mineral Act, which should be clarified in connection with the handling of the suspension of the Samerrechtscommittee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e1309	Actually, I had thought that the last words should have been said a while ago, but Jørgen Holte made an article about the differentiated employer's fee, and I felt the need to add some comments to what was said. In fact, we have tried to find out what the majority actually thinks about the comment it has on the local economy, because the 14 municipalities affected by an increase in the employer's fee are now in the process of budgeting, and the county council has at least said that he does not have money in the discretionary pot, as it stands in the arrangement, to give more than approx. one third of compensation to municipalities in relation to increased expenditure. As the agreement is, one would have hoped from the local authorities that there would be more money. But it has been very difficult to deal with a situation where, for example: Now, before Christmas, there is a need to cut down on activities, which are suddenly brought back into the revised national budget — any changes in school structure, and issues related to kindergartens, which are issues for discussion in municipalities, at least in my home country. I have then tried to find out: what does the majority mean? Is there going to be more money in the revised national budget for municipalities as well? Is there any basis on which the county councillors can grant permission for one to be based on increased judgement compared to one third, or is that not? It has been difficult to get a clear answer as to whether this has been specifically affected in relation to the comments of the majority. I therefore think it would have been nice if the Council of State could now clarify whether the municipalities can expect more money from him and plan from it at an earlier time, or whether one must assume that there is nothing more to come than the money that the county officials are orientated about will come as a beauties, which will therefore mean approx. one-third coverage of the increased expenditure. When you first take the floor, there are always other things you could think of commenting, and after hearing the article from the Labour Party representative Dag Terje Andersen, I have to say that I am not quite sure if I feel that it is equally clear which way the Workers' Party will go in relation to the position of the Rattsø Committee and the follow-up of it, in relation to that, among other things. is not in the position of the Right and Advance Party, where we clearly say that the direction is to remove the loss compensation and to be on the way towards the objectives set for better distribution through objective criteria. I think in many ways that it would have been a little real to give the Council some instructions as to where to go further from that assessment, and not just ask for an open assessment, as I read it from the unanimous proposal for a decision. I'm glad that there are people in the Workers' Party who probably agree more with us than with their own position.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e1316	Let me first say about the differentiated employer’s fee and what the future might have to bring here, that of course we must not forget that we have had an impact so that after the judgment we will also retain most of the scheme until 2003. Of course, it is uncertain what will happen when this plan is evaluated in the next round – it is almost impossible to predict. But one of the main points is that we have to keep, as I said in the lines, as much as possible of the district policy measures that differentiated the employer's fee. So for compensation to the 14 municipalities that are now being affected by a higher employer’s fee. Most municipalities have received compensation under 50 pst through the discretionary funds. I believe that Stortinget wants full compensation to be given to the 14 municipalities that are now affected by the conversion of the employer's fee. That's how I see the financial committee's position, and the government's being asked to come back to it in revision. Of course we will. But I want to find a suitable way to get these municipalities informed about the Storting decision, and how it will be followed up. Of course, it is not necessary for municipalities to reduce their activity at the beginning of the year if they are certain that the money will be allocated through the treatment of the revised national budget. For the discretionary means initially contained in the budget, the framework is distributed from the beginning of the year. It's more a liquidity question than it's a question of having to cut down on activity, so we're going to find a suitable way to get back to it. So I don't think it's so hard to discover that the undersigned is a happy boy, as the representative Dag Terje Andersen said, but in this context it was actually primarily because the government has joined the main features of its budget proposal, that I indicated that I am satisfied. And if the representative followed up on what I said in my main post, I actually spent most of the time talking about the challenges we face in the municipal sector. Despite the fact that, every year now, we have significantly increased the financial resources of the municipal sector, we are still facing major challenges. We have a huge deficit. I might not do that, but I would still like to remind you that the increase of DKK 4 billion that was entered into the 1997 budget was actually a strong contributory reason why the government of Jagland chose to leave, and that there was also a situation in which the municipalities were in a very difficult economic situation. That's why I'm glad – as I said in my main post – that the committee leader has so clearly signaled that you want to sit down together to see how to solve the challenges facing the local government sector. So in terms of loss compensation. The government – both this and previous governments – has followed up what Stortinget said. The Rattsø selection did not get full access to its setting. Loss compensation was put in place precisely to avoid poor performance of district municipalities. I have notified you that I will look at it, while, of course, it is necessary to have a thorough review of what the distribution in the future should be like.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e1327	First of all, what the representative Karin Andersen said. We have some driving rules for the payroll. It is very difficult for a Minister of Labour, from this pulpit, to give so many signals about what is going to happen in the pay-up to next year, but both the wage-setting framework and the distribution of the framework are of course to be determined in cooperation with the social partners. And it must be allowed to be happy that we have very responsible parties, as far as we have, after all, come to discuss the framework for next year's wage settlement. But we're just going to have to negotiate completely. Wages and salaries are an important tool. Good human resources policy is another important tool in recruiting personnel. I also want to refer to these recruitment plans, which are quite extensive, and which also contain a lot of funds from the Government in terms of just investing in getting more staff. But we also see that we have a big challenge. All right, let's go to the living I understand that the representative Sylvia Brustad is particularly concerned about the Oslo area in terms of housing. This is also where we see a major shortage of housing for young and disadvantaged people. It doesn't have to take so long for me to go through the housing stock that the state has and that is regulated for dwellings. It can be done relatively quickly. And then you'd better get back to the result of such a review. But I want to mention that we have some areas that are not quite easy to handle. I think of the Fornebu area, where the state actually wants 1000 more dwellings than the Bærum municipality wants in this area. There we have a conflict going on, and we are going through a settlement case. But we also have an empty – if I can mention it – in Gyda's way, which has been regulated for public purposes, and which the Municipality of Oslo has now wanted to be reregulated to housing. There is also a conflict, because the State also needs housing for public purposes in this area. It's possible that here we can come up with a solution where we can take care of both of these purposes. We are working on this – just for mentioning two plots where we from the state, after all, work offensively to seek to help get more dwellings in the Oslo area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e1336	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see next page]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e1350	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 974]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e1363	There is now to be a vote in cases No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e1369	A total of 14 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 6, by Lodve Solholm on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on 2, by Erna Solberg on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 3 and 7-13, by Karin Andersen, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposals No. 4 and 5, by Lodve Solholm on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposal No. 14, from Sylvia Brustad on behalf of Olaf Gedrem and himself. The President will first address minority proposals outside the framework areas. Proposals Nos. 7-13, from the Socialist Left Party to voting. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to introduce a state top-level funding for particularly resource-intensive users of municipal services.The Order is to assume a fixed municipal ownership and a state full-financing of needs in addition.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asked the Government to implement a system of ready-to-use municipalities as an emergency response mechanism for the establishment of emergency reception of refugees.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The practice of using u-aids to finance residence for refugees must cease and be phased out during the period 2000-2003.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that the bulk of the regional policy instruments be incorporated into the allocation frameworks entirely available to municipalities and counties according to agreed plans and local needs.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals for a strategy to maintain the geographical differentiation of the employer’s fee and the current level of support after 2003.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to clarify as soon as possible the long-term effects of the EFTA judgment on the differentiated employer’s fee and Norwegian district policy.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘1. The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for a State co-guarantee scheme for start-up loans.2. The Government asks for proposals on how the land and property stock of the State can be actively used to promote increased investment both in permanent and temporary dwellings.» Proposal No. 13 consists of two points. It will be weighed separately over point 2. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13 points 1 of the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e1445	It is then voted over point No. 2 of proposal No 13, from the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e1454	Proposal No. 6, from the Progress Party, taken up for voting. The proposal reads as follows: « Size asks the Government to allocate funds on a cap. 521 Item 73 Support to nation-wide organisations, only to member-based organisations.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e1468	Proposals Nos. 4 and 5, from the Advancement Party and the Right, to voting. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to carry out an evaluation of whether the main intentions of the new Planning and Building Act appear to have been met. The evaluation shall be carried out during the following year and shall verify whether the number of injuries, defects and defects caused by misdesign or craftsmanship has been reduced.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to replace the lighting and heating template of the housing aid scheme with the actual expenditure of the housing beneficiary. The amendment shall apply from 2001.’»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e1489	It shall now be votted over the frame area 6. The President will first address proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party, then vote on proposal No. 2 from the Right, then on proposal No. I. by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities 14, from Sylvia Brustad and Olaf Gedrem. The President noted that in the case of proposal No: 14, the Labour Party and the government parties are behind it. – No objections have been raised, and this is what will be done. Proposal No. 3 is added up to voting. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e3746	Proposal No. 2, from the Right, taken up to the vote. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e6017	Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, taken up for voting. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e10462	At the same time, the President will vote on proposal No. 14, from Sylvia Brustad and Olaf Gedrem. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Board agrees that the Ministry of Labour and Administration is authorised to redispatch up to 10 million. crowns from cap. Item No 71 Training activities, operations under heading 1591. 1590, entry 01 Operating expenditure, in order to implement the additional investment towards the oil-related industry.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e10537	There is still to be a vote over the 7th frame area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e10771	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Lodve Solholm on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right, transmitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 16 November 1999: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the regulations take into account that all employees in small enterprises may have key positions, how long leave can create major operating problems.’ The voting boards showed that 62 votes were cast against and 41 votes in favour of the proposal. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 14.57.07]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e10783	I voted in favour and voted against.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-07.ana.ud560e10790	That is when the proposal by the Progress Party and the Right, with 63 to 40 votes in favour, is not accepted. Then we finished voting in case No. 1 and 2. The President will see that the scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is soon to come. The President proposes that this meeting be cancelled and that the evening meeting be set at 1 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. You start with the treatment of case no. 3rd@item: inlistbox
