ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e62	The representative Helene Falch Fladmark, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The former temporary deputy of the Finnmark County, Einar Johansen, has again taken up its seat. The called alternate of the state of Buskerud, Frank Willy Larsen, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e80	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e85	I allow to propose Øyvind Korsberg and Ursula Evje.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e90	Ursula Evje and Øyvind Korsberg are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Ursula Evje and Øyvind Korsberg are considered unanimously elected presidents of the current week’s meetings. Before considering the matter, the President will propose that this morning's meeting be suspended after case No. 6 p.m. has been completed, and that the meeting will be resumed at 6 p.m. 18.00 for the examination of cases No. 7 and 8. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted. Furthermore, the President will propose that the Stortinget depart from the provision of the first paragraph of Section 43 of the Rules of Procedure and vote after each case on the current map. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e106	The representative Carl I. Hagen has proposed to amend the Constitution § 20, 30 and 86, which implies that national law should judge only in the last instance and not, as today, at the first instance. This means that if a criminal offence is to be convicted of national law under the Constitution, it shall first be dealt with by the ordinary judicial system with the normal prosecution authority as the defendant. It is only when the case is brought before the Supreme Court, where appropriate, that, on the proposal of the representative, Mr Hagen, national law shall replace the Supreme Court. The minority, i.e. the members of the Progress Party justify their intention to prevent abuse of power. Furthermore, the proposer points out that the law provides for a graduated response pattern for offences committed by state councils, bailiffs and Supreme Court judges through the Liability Act of 5 February 1932. In the event of a breach of these provisions, both fines, conditional prisons and unconditional prisons may be imposed. Here the proposer shows that what distinguishes this law in practice from other legislation is that national law is judged both at first and last instance by Odelstinget as the prosecution authority. The charge against the present system, according to the proposer, is that the composition of national law and prosecutors is today an obstacle to following violations of the Liability Act and other laws that those officials had to make. Therefore, discrimination may arise between the relevant representatives of the State Council, the representatives of the Grand Duchy and the members of the Supreme Court in relation to other professional groups which may also commit offences of professional activity. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Socialist Left, point out that if a case is first to be dealt with by the General Public Prosecutor's Office, it will be possible by law to provide that the National Advocate shall not be subject to the right of instruction of the King of the Council of State. In this context, questions of trust in the impartiality of the national lawyer may be raised. Should this arise as a result of a mistrust, there is a possibility of a possible contagion effect being passed on to other types of cases. The proposal will also, in the view of the majority, lead to a breach of the principle of the distribution of power which underlies our constitution, in particular in relation to the Storting. In the principle of power-allocation, the body of the Storting is the body that decides on the charge of large-scale representatives in the performance of their duties as representatives. It would be a concern if the national law provisions were to be amended as proposed by the proposer, that it would only be possible, at the end of the day, for national law to assess whether any political considerations should be included. Such a mechanism would allow for the possibility of different decisions in the various instances. The proposed system will easily lead to cases of appeal to national law in any case, because, as a general rule, there are political considerations on the basis of which cases can be brought against magistrates, state councils and Supreme Court judges. Furthermore, the majority consider that there is an unfortunate consequence of the proposal that the amendments would imply that a secondary court would deal with and, where appropriate, judge matters concerning the liability of judges in the Supreme Court. What is harmful to the country is often, in the majority's view, a political decision and therefore does not belong in the ordinary courts. The majority of those who disagree politically with the decisions taken are of the opinion that there is a risk of abuse. Yes, then one by proposal will be able to bring matters to the fore of gentlemen's and citizens' rights and thus draw attention to different matters in a rather different way than in today's debate and media postings. In other words, the proposal to amend national law could result in a high level of media attention and, in part, a heavy burden on those involved in an initial phase, without the facts calling for further follow-up of national law in the last instance. On the other hand, the majority, regardless of this proposal, have decided at a later stage to continue to work on issues related to the current national law regime, in order to see whether more appropriate arrangements can be organised. The majority therefore recommends that proposal No. 1 of Document No 12 for 1995-96 amending the Basic Law §§ 20, 30 and 86 are not accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e136	There may be many reasons to take a closer look at the provisions of the Constitution on national law. The most important one is the implementation of parliamentaryism, which has led to the fact that national law today is primarily regarded as a ‘ris behind the mirror’. Although national law is a court of responsibility, it will in practice act almost as a political court, because it will be political judgements that will be central when the national court has to take a position on whether the constitutionally responsible have done wrong. So the question is whether to stick to the system of police justice and an institution that will almost never be used. Since the Constitution was adopted in 1814, the Riksrecht has been applied only in eight cases, from 1845 only twice. The most mentioned was the national court case against Selmer in 1883-84, which paved the way for parliamentaryism. The last time was in 1926-27 against the government Abraham Berge, who was charged with not informing Stortinget that it had granted state aid to a bank. The Court of Justice ruled otherwise on acquittal. As I said, it is primarily the introduction of parliamentaryism that makes it necessary to make changes to the Constitutional Law provisions on national law. However, the proposal put forward by Carl I. Hagen has weaknesses which mean that the Workers' Party and the other parties represented in the Supervisory and Constituent Committee outside the Advance Party will reject the proposal. The rapporteur has explained why. The proposal of Carl I. Hagen and the Progress Party will be able to open up abuses of the system to ensure compliance with criminal liability laid down in the Law of Liability of Governments, Trustees and Supreme Court Judges in the exercise of their duties. It is also important that we stick to the principle of the distribution of power on which our constitution is based, as the rapporteur explained. Carl I. Hagen's proposal would clearly violate this principle. The proposal is therefore far from improving, as the members of the Progress Party state in their comments. National law has never been applied to a wholesale representative. Section 12 of the Liability Act punishes the representative who ‘does not comply with the Rules of Procedure of the Storting’. So this provision has not been used, but it may also represent a reasonable "ris behind the rear-view mirror", as has been the case both in 1975 and 1977 with large-scale representatives, among other things. in matters of breach of professional secrecy. What's important is the Storting's own way of controlling management. The main change in principle that has been made in recent years is the creation of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. This Committee shall, as one of its main areas of competence, carry out the administrative investigations it deems necessary for the control of management by the Storting. The purpose of such studies is to provide information deemed necessary for the Grand Duchy to be able to enforce the constitutional and parliamentary responsibilities of members of the Government vis-à-vis the Grand Duchy. Parliamentaryism means that the Government is always under the supervision and control of the Storing, which has gradually created more opportunities for the Storing to gain insight into almost everything that it will be able to do. What will be at the heart, and which can cause political crises, is, as everyone knows, the so-called obligation of information to the councils of state towards the Storting. This obligation to provide information can be found in Section 9 of the Law on Penalties for acts charged by national law. However, there is no national law under threat in such matters as whether government councils have deliberately failed to provide information that could have had a bearing on the matter. In reality, national law has become history after we were introduced to parliamentarianism. That is why parliamentary responsibility must be the starting point for organising criminal liability. The Labour Party will not deny that we can assess any other sanctioning options in relation to the existing national law system, which some – and perhaps rightly – consider to be an anachronism. Without specifying which solutions can be reasonable, one should be able to open up the possibility to consider other solutions and other amendments. One possibility may be to consider a separate law on the Commission for Examination or Investigation, as introduced by the Danes. This may reinforce both the provisions on the disclosure obligations of state councils and, in particular, the enforcement of the law in cases where a State Council has taken decisions which may be harmful to the rich and contrary to the state form, as formulated in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e157	In my view, the proposal for amendments to the Constitutional Law provisions that have been submitted and are now under consideration is a clearly better alternative and provides a much better system than the one currently in force in the Constitutional Law. It has been pointed out by the majority of the committee and by the rapporteur, possibly some shortcomings or negative features of the proposal presented, and I can also admit that it is not necessarily such that the proposal presented provides the perfect solution. However, I think that when there is a proposal to be considered, it should be assessed against the existing one. Although the proposal presented may not be finally perfect, it should be such that the majority, if necessary, argued why the existing system is preferable to what has been proposed. An analysis and a review of these will, at least I argued, speak in favour of the proposal. The existing system – which has not been used, as far as I know, since 1927, it was well – has the consequence that today we have a legal situation in which those with the most power in Norwegian society, colossal representatives, state councils and Supreme Court judges, and perhaps, in particular, state councils, in reality – as Professor Eivind Smith says in the foreword to the book «Might without responsibility? About the Riksrecht in our time’ – appears to be privileged, because it is almost not up to the state councils who have to commit crimes, i.e. violations of the rules of the Liability Act. This is the core of this problem. It is not the case, as Mr Schaug said, that parliamentarianism has led to the history of national law. Parliamentarism entails only a parliamentary responsibility for state councils, in addition to the constitutional responsibility they have, and the criminal liability they have through the provisions of the Liability Act. Parliamentary responsibility means that a majority of the population can remove a Council of State at any time by adopting a motion of censure. But, of course, parliamentary responsibility cannot be asserted to a Council of State that has passed away as a Council of State, and it is true that in the case of a breach of laws, it may take some time before what you think might be a crime is made visible, and then it is not possible to have a criminal reaction in the form of the removal of a Council of State from a position, if he has left off. Secondly, I would like to mention that we are now at a time when, in several areas of this Chamber, we have passed laws that result in criminal liability for many different occupational categories in Norwegian society. We have provisions in the Share Act, in the Accounting Act, in tax laws, in the Working Environment Act and in a number of laws for different occupational groups within, for example: the medical area, which may result in prison sentences or fines for errors and offences committed by a professional through his professional activity, i.e. not as a private person, but through his professional activity. In this area, there has actually been a dramatic increase in recent times. We therefore have a system in which it is practically not possible to bring an action for criminal liability for infringements of the provisions of the Special Liability Act. It is in the book «Might without responsibility? About the Riksrecht in our time’ referred to this a number of places. Among other things, there is a reference to an opinion that is symptomatic, from former prime minister Jo Benkow, who, in the context of a question of what would happen if a newly elected representative of the Trustee would not readily sign a declaration of professional secrecy, and yet broke it, said: ‘Then, in the case of national law, this is the case. But it is an unusually swirled tool." In other words, the actual form of action and the composition of the court are so twisted that it won't come up with a speech. It is a kind of pre-declaration that you will be free from both prosecution and conviction even if the criminal liability should be relatively obvious. So we have a situation where there is a difference between Loke and Tor – ordinary people and ordinary professionals have public agencies that have the task of supervising and raising cases if you find out that criminal acts have been committed. I just want to mention a little matter a few years ago. A small company in the West repaired fishing boats, and it was about doing when they came in and needed repair, to do this very quickly. It was used overtime — even though it was voluntary from the affected — to get the fishing boats repaired quickly and out again to fish, because there were some who lived there. There was a breach of the overtime provisions of the Working Environment Act. The Labour Inspectorate raised a case, and he was fined for the illegal use of overtime despite the fact that everyone involved did so voluntarily, had an interest in it, and it was only a positive impact on society. He/she was punished for a breach of the Work Environment Act. If a Council of State violates the provisions of the Law of Liability on disclosure by either intentionally or unintentionally providing the Storting with incorrect information, let us say in connection with an investment project, for example. construction of an aerodrome or a route, and it turns out later that the Stortinget has taken decisions based on this information, may have the effect of imposing some billions a year on the Norwegian community in extra costs. It is a little more significant than any breach of the overtime provisions of the Working Environment Act. So in such a thoughtful situation, a lot of people would argue that it's so twisted with national law, so there's nothing to worry about. Let me mention that in other contexts we talk a lot about the preventative effects of the legislation, and Gunnar Schaug talked about "Rice behind the mirror", but then the rice must be used from time to time if you are to have any respect for the existence of it. Some cases are brought before the ordinary courts for infringements of Norwegian laws through the practice of different professions, in order to demonstrate that infringements of the law could lead to criminal liability. It's my claim that such national law is organized today, is after all the rice behind the mirror is actually removed, because it's so squirming to get to the point, and it's said that he's gone off. I would like to ask: why should it be that the loss of the position of a Council of State, or, for that matter, also judges and representatives of the Supreme Court, should be enough punishment in any context, while for other categories of professions it is not enough that you just lose the job, you also have to pay a fine or zone a prison sentence for serious crimes? Here's the difference between Loke and Tor in the real world. I don't think we should live with that any longer, especially as media claims about possible breaches of the obligation to provide information appear. We shouldn't accept that. There are also increasing numbers of politicians who question whether the Liability Act is being followed in all cases, and whether governments take it as seriously as they should and should take it. I can mention something that has nothing to do with this, and that's that the same might apply to general government as well. It happens from time to time that you hear politicians from other parties say that there is some sort of suspicion that there has been a wide-ranging attitude in the administration to have an investment project adopted, it is good to make estimates that it is very cheap, because when the tunnel is half finished, you have to build it because it is already half finished. There are not so many examples that large public investment projects are 10-20 pst. below what was claimed as the cost, while it is relatively often that there are exceedances of both 10, 20, 30, 40 and 50 pst. The Rikshospital is an example that we are now struggling with in certain contexts, and we had exceedances at Hardangerbrua, so there are signs that we underestimate costs and problems and the scale of projects to get them going. There should be nothing that the Storting tacitly accepts. If we are to ensure that it is rather over-budget than under-budgeted, there should be systems that have consequences for those responsible for under-budgeting. There is one of the principles behind this bill. So what does that mean? Firstly, today we have the problem of raising a case for national law. According to Section 14(a) of the Rules of Procedure, if the Odelstinget seriously considers that it is criminal, constitutional, liability to a Council of State that has passed away – i.e. not parliamentary responsibility to a State Council of State – the members of the Electoral Committee of Odelstinge shall appoint a Protocol Committee to examine the matter. There are therefore two steps, not as in ordinary criminal cases, where the prosecution authority — possibly some may make a notification — is investigating the case. It's a professional ethate that knows what to look for, who knows what material is needed for evidence. That's what we see in all big things. The prosecution authority may ask questions, may question them and may refer them to the documents of the case, etc. Before arriving at that stage, if a case is to be brought for a breach of the Liability Act, the positive decision to appoint a kind of prosecution authority – a protocol committee. Then there are amateurs, who have no professional apparatus available to assess whether a case is to be brought, who will make the real decision. There is a complete process at the preparatory stage, because the work is carried out only by the Storting Committees. I hope none of my colleagues take it up insultingly when I say that there are not so many in Stortinget who are professionals in prosecution and who have experience, competence and knowledge to assess whether a material is durable enough to hold a judgment in a right. Nevertheless, it is the Storting that will make those assessments. But it's first a protocol committee, of course appointed after a big debate with a lot of media coverage, which can involve a secretariat of professional investigators with the necessary skills. Therefore, the protection of those who can only be punished by national law is already a matter of charge. The majority claims that, as can be said by law, the Riksadvokat is not under the authority of the Government, can be suspected of having political affairs in the exercise of his office. In this case, there must be a huge mistrust of the Riksadvokat, with whom this majority of this House had no concern when we had a matter where it was really relevant to assess it a few years ago. However, the fact that with party political considerations in the prosecution authority, there should be a problem when the option is that it is Odelstinget, which is only a party political composite body, which is today the prosecution authority, would point out that the current system is far worse if the prosecution authority were anxious to take party policy into account. That is precisely what is suspected today, that the prosecution authority or the Odelstingen only takes party politics into account and does not go into the matter. My proposal, which is that it is the ordinary prosecution authority who is to bring the case, is in reality only a protection for those who have committed a crime, if any. It was to speak for my proposal, because the proposal that the majority actually supports is about preserving it. The whole argument of the majority is about making changes to the existing system. The fact that the prosecution authority, which is a professional person, is the one assessing a case, should be better in terms of non-discrimination in the case of offences committed by state councils, Supreme Court judges and magistrates in relation to other categories of professions. When it comes to bringing the case before the courts, it has been argued that a Supreme Court judge could have a judgment in other underlying courts, would speak against the proposal. In terms of legal certainty in general, it has become more and more common in Europe for everyone to have the right to a two-proceedure procedure, whereas, in other words, national law is a one-stop shop without access to appeals. It also applies to Supreme Court judges. In national law, there are colleagues from the Supreme Court. And there's no problem with stability if there's a case raised against a Supreme Court judge. For example, he may have participated theoretically in a judgment based on bribery. Such a case would be equally likely to be brought before the ordinary courts, for he/she would, if the case was appealed to the Supreme Court, be incapacitated. There are several cases where the Supreme Court judges have been inhabile. It is not that the underlying courts are under the authority of the Supreme Court, which appears to be in the majority’s view. They are by no means subject to any authority of instruction other than the judgment of the Supreme Court, and they are fully open. It's not like it's almost suggested, that a Supreme Court judge can call or take a coffee cup with a team judge and whisper him or her in the ear how a judgment should be. No, it's a retrospective check, and of course it's much better or at least as good as today's situation, so that argument is also not sustainable. So to the obligation of information: the obligation to provide information is very central in Norwegian, today's political distribution of power. But the obligation to provide information is therefore only relevant, in relation to what the majority claims, in terms of the effect of a Council of State sitting, because it does not really want anything to happen after it has left Parliamentary responsibility. Of course, it is positive when it is suggested both from Gunnar Schaug and from the case rapporteur that you might be willing to look at today's system of national law. However, I think it was sad that none of them would deal with the main issue – that the existing system of national law appears to be a privilege for those who have the most power in society, where the possibilities for major consequences of possible crime are very, very great. This in itself should have led to a much faster improvement in the current system than the majority suggested, that there might be something more to see on the national justice system. I had hoped that you could have been far more concrete. Of course, the Progress Party will help put the search light on and get something done with the system – possibly in a few years’ time. But we actually think that this is an urgent matter, and as Professor Eivind Smith writes in that book: ‘This is a situation with which, in my opinion, we cannot – or at least should not – live.’ I find with some sadness that the majority is prepared to live with this further, despite the fact that one now has the opportunity to make an improvement in the existing system, with which one could have experience. I can't see that any of the majority's comments or negative arguments really have any particular relevance, in the sense that they don't address why the existing system seems to be a non-system. I would also like to mention that in Europe many countries have looked at their system of criminal liability for criminal offences committed by senior politicians. There have been cases in Denmark and France, and there are different systems. That's how we could say that the thesis of Bjørn O. Berg in that book shows that there is not one perfect system, but that there are opportunities to do things, and that there are different solutions. Most people at least believe that it is the professional prosecution authority who file a case, that you have a case preparation, and that someone feels a responsibility to assess and treat possible alleged crimes from the highest in the country. In Norway, unlike in the other countries, there is only a lack of restraint on the part of the majority of those concerned when it comes to looking into the fact that government councils, magnificence representatives and Supreme Court judges can also commit crimes, and that there should be an effective, professional system dealing with such cases. The difference between Loke and Tor is, in our opinion, no longer at home in Norwegian society, and I therefore allow myself to address the proposal – which is included on page 5 of the vote – to endorse the proposal. My main reason is that it in itself constitutes a much better, actually, alternative than the existing national court system, which the Workers' Party's Gunnar Schaug said right now is history. Then I have to interpret him to the point that he believes that under no circumstances should it be possible to use it, for example. in some of the current cases for treatment in Stortinget. I think that's very, very boring. It must be the case in itself that decides whether or not something should be done with it – and that alone, and no prior decision that a possible case should not be raised. This is contrary to the practice we have in all other areas of society where we have legislation that results in criminal liability for crimes committed, for example. in the course of a professional activity.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e217	Sir. Hagen has taken up the suggestion he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e220	For the Right, the threshold is generally high for changes to the Constitution. It lies at the bottom of the Right approach to the Constitution in any context, and perhaps in particular on the issue of national law. With regard to the proposed amendments to the Basic Law § 20, 30 and 86 on national law, I am of the opinion that these proposals do not take account of two very important considerations that the Right sets high. It is about the very principle of power distribution as balanced in our Constitution, and it is about national law being both a legal and a political matter. The latter — a political issue — is, of course, particularly linked to the Stortinget and the Government, as explained in the majority opinion. In the case of the Supreme Court, I also refer to the majority's grounds and to the fundamental concerns which can be raised by the fact that an underlying court is to judge the country's supreme court. Furthermore, I refer to the statement made by the rapporteur, Mr Holten, on behalf of the majority, with which I also have the right. National law has been raised only eight times since 1814. It confirms that the need for this type of trial is rather limited, and also states that national law is not to be passed on in vain. The fact that national law also has the necessary preparation and implementation of the trial is as it should be in the opinion of the Right. We should not follow the example of the United Kingdom. The country has abolished the national justice system because it was not used. But in relation to Hagen's proposals, the practice of the British is that the ordinary prosecution authority and the ordinary courts deal with national cases, in so far as it is interesting, but Hagen's proposal is to choose a solution with a mix of the Constitutional Law provisions on national law, as we have today, but on the proposal only as the last instance, and the ordinary judicial system with the normal prosecution authority as the prosecutor at the first instance. I think it would have been far more principled to choose either – or, as the British have done, than both – and, as I perceive, the representative Hagen's proposal to be. In the right we have stuck to today's system, and we are therefore in favour of rejecting the proposal as contained in the document. Then also the representative Hagen himself says that his proposals are not perfect. In the choice between a system of national law that we are pleased with, and a proposal that the proposer himself admits is not perfect, right chooses the tried and well-known, which we know works. I would also like to point out to the majority that the proposal by Mr Hagen could lead to the abuse of such a powerful instrument as national law is supposed to be. There is in itself an argument for caution on the part of Stortinget to amend the Constitution, and I am pleased that the majority of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee does not agree with Mr Hagen's proposal. I recommend the Right Group to vote for the option.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e239	In its plural remarks, the Court of Justice pointed out that only the Government and members of the Government had an influence. The Court has not been applied against members of the Supreme Court or the Grand Duchy. This, together with the fact that national law has only been raised eight times after 1814, can absolutely speak for one to consider changes in today's situation. Other arguments may also speak for the same reason, but if one is to make changes, the Centre Party considers that there must be thorough assessments in advance, so that the consequences of any changes have also been carefully assessed. The centre party therefore shares his view, stating that these are questions that we must be able to come back to. The centre party will not reject all changes to today’s system, but this should come after careful evaluation and distribution. When it comes to the concrete proposal we are dealing with today, the Central Party will follow the plurality of the committee and vote against it. I shall not take much time to argue against the present proposal, but will only point to an argument that we in the Central Party believe is an essential argument against the proposal presented in Document No. 12:1 for 1995-96. The proposal simply states that a case should first be dealt with in ordinary courts, and then in the national court in the last instance. We will then have a situation in which one of the subordinate courts will have a purely legal assessment, and ultimately it will be considered whether any political considerations should come in. With such a system, the various judgments which are based in the courts under review and in the Supreme Court, in this case, become the national courts. This is a substantial objection to the proposal and has been important for the centre party’s position, but we conclude that we follow the majority of the vote and will vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e248	One of Hagen's arguments was that he realized that his proposal was not perfect, but in his opinion it was at least better than what you had today. Well, in principle, one can agree that the Constitution as a constitutional instrument is not always perfect, but we should be extremely careful to change the Constitutional provisions to worse, because that is what I think the representative Hagen's proposal does. First, through his proposal, he is involved in politicising the prosecution authority. He opens the possibility for representatives or parties who disagree with a political decision taken by the Stortinget, under the condition that the information obligation has not been complied with, to involve the prosecution authority in the judgement as to whether a political decision is correct or not. This is a very dangerous path, and a very risky invitation to the prosecution authority to involve them in the political discussion in such a way as to invite them either to approve or to review. If they refer the matter to them or find no basis for further investigation, there will be a ‘approval stamp’ on the decision taken by the Stortinget. That, I think, is such an unfortunate consequence of Mr. Hagen's proposal that it will obviously be a part of creating a worse constitutional practice than the one we actually have today. I do not overlook the fact that in the future, national cases will be brought against state councils, magistrates or Supreme Court judges. It depends on the matter under consideration. Our new control system in the Storting will in many ways be the control committee which is the initiator of whether or not to raise national courts. I have noticed that in the newspapers there are a number of big business representatives who are on the field quite quickly and call for national law as soon as there are questions about specific issues. And they actually do that without knowing at all some parts of the things that are focused and put on the top. It is only when one has examined the documents of the case that one is able to have a clear view of who it really is now in such a situation that it should be assessed whether the information obligation towards the Storting has been breached or whether, on the other hand, he has actually, knowingly and willfully, been involved in violating the rules on the grant of the Storting, for example. However, who and what body to assess the fulfilment of the information obligation is in many ways a political issue. So, it's the Stortinge that decides if they have a good enough decision base to make a decision. And there can't be anyone else, because it's the Storting that makes decisions. If it becomes known in retrospect that the Storting did not have all the information knowingly and intentionally, it is only the Storting that can assess whether the information was relevant to the matter. I believe that the representative, Mr Hagen, underestimates and hassles the majority of the committee when they point out that an unfortunate consequence of the proposal, which the majority opposes, ‘is that the amendments would mean that a secondary court would deal/appreciate matters relating to the liability of judges in the Supreme Court of the country’. We have not said that it could not be done. We haven't said that this necessarily implies that the Supreme Court judges in theory, as the representative Hagen is trying to put it, have some kind of command authority as single judges before subordinate courts, we haven't moved into that principle at all. When the representative Hagen says in and of himself is willing to be with and discuss other results in the future, I think he should also not try to make the majority's remarks anything other than what they actually are, especially if he invites to cooperate. Also, I see that there are obvious weaknesses with several things of a constitutional nature in the Storting today. And there are others who see. The President of the Grand Duchy, in his speech at the King's dinner, addressed the representatives of the Magnificent to a number of constitutional questions on which there is reason to put the search light. With the development we have had in the administration up to today, it is quite obvious that it is not always that easy for the Storting to control the administration, only to deal with the Council of State. It's a set of elements that in many ways bring out the decisions, and there are many who are involved in these processes, and I think that's why it's too simple, when you feel that things have happened, to say, if we take the council, everything's fine. If the Storting has such an ambition when it comes to improving the constitutional value of control, I think such an approach to the issue will be too poor. It's not the way the government behaves with the decisions of the Storting. I am therefore very open to either, in the context described by the President-in-Office of the Council, that there is a need in a larger context to look at the Constitutional Position of the Stortinge on what we ourselves have done to do, or in a limited area to look at the possibilities of reaction of the Stortinge to the administration, and to draw some conclusions that can either lead to a law supplementing the Constitutional Law, or, after more extensive processing, to actually look at Constitutional Law proposals, which I believe are not necessarily appropriate, but to obtain elements that enable the Stortinge to strengthen its position in constitutional control. That must be the main thing, not to be out to get someone convicted, as I perceive in many ways that the representative Hagen is, in that way to put forward some principled attitudes. I therefore believe that the Committee, in cooperation with the Presidency of the Grand Duchy, should, on the basis of the President's initiative, take a discussion on how to approach these issues, so that at least the next time we are going to deal with the draft constitution, we will not have a discussion on what is best, the present system or what is proposed, although everyone is aware that what is proposed is at least not good enough. The representative Hagen and I have different opinions about his proposals are better or worse than today's system. But at least we agree on one thing: it's possible to do things that can make today's system work better. But at least that should not be what the representative Hagen has proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e267	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e270	The Chairman of the Committee, Jørgen Kosmo, now indicated that there could be an opportunity for the Committee and, where appropriate, the Presidency to discuss possible initiatives to follow up the views expressed publicly by the Grand President and others. I would like to ask the representative Kosmo if I can interpret it so that the chairman of the committee intends to take the initiative to hold a meeting to discuss the further situation – not that it has suddenly been two years, and then everyone has forgotten what Kosmo said, but that in the near future he will take an initiative to have such a discussion meeting. I'd like to have it confirmed if that's the way it's supposed to be. So the representative told Kosmo that if someone were to report a state council for a breach of the information obligation, and that case was then handed down by the prosecution, it would be a kind of approval of the Storting decision. That is what I assume was a misunderstanding, because the only charge authority in the case will do is to reject the fact that there is a breach of the Liability Act. The political assessments, which were yes or no to the decision, are not addressed in case only, it is only stated that the prosecution authority does not consider it to have been documented as a possible breach of the obligation to provide information. But this is probably almost putting some kind of question mark on our general system. Many may make notifications, but the prosecution authority is professional in assessing whether the basis of action is such that more investigation or not should be carried out that a law is likely to be violated. Is the representative of Kosmo agreed that today there is virtually no one who makes a real professional assessment of whether there has been a breach of the Liability Act, for example. by a Council of States, because no professional is involved in the proceedings until, in substance, a Protocol Committee has been appointed by the Electoral Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e281	Yes, I'm going to take the initiative before the Presidency to discuss this, because I see that there are two approaches to this: either you can have a bigger commission that looks at all of the issues raised by the prime minister in his speech, or you can have a smaller commission that just looks at the constitutional aspect of the Grand Duchy's control business. I can confirm that such an initiative will be taken, and then, as a result of the dialogue with the Presidency of the Grand Duchy, we will have to discuss in the Committee how this is to be done. I would also like to ask the representative Hagen's belief that the prosecution authority is so much more professional than the Storting itself to assess whether the information obligation prior to a political decision has been fulfilled. As regards professionalism in assessing the political content and actual background information available before a political decision is taken, I believe that the Storting itself is more professional in assessing this than the prosecution authority. But if the Stortinge needed help and support for this work, it is precisely part of the Stortinge’s control activities that the National Audit Office carries out, and they gradually acquire a unique professionalism in assessing the various parts. And the National Audit Office's reports are again being treated when they come to the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. But the crucial thing is what's going to happen afterwards, and there I think the prosecution authority is actually not the right answer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e289	It is well in the cards of this case that as soon as Carl I. Hagen's constitution on national law is voted down here today, the discussion will continue. There are quite a number of people who have spoken together about the need to change the Constitution, among other things. at this point. And the way you go about it afterwards, you can be a little bit open. If I get some comments first to the discussion between Carl I. Hagen and the committee leader, I have to say the following: One of the first things I was in the Stortinget when I was elected in 1989 was the Raksten case. It has been treated in the Storting many times. That case ended with a very strong criticism from a majority of the Finance Committee and a majority of the Storting against former government councils who had dealt with this matter but who were not now in government and could not therefore be thrown through a motion of censure. What happened in that context was that the bulk of the population was not willing to take the step fully. The criticism was so strong that according to SV's opinion, the next step should be to say that one should investigate whether the matter should be raised for national law. But the majority of the population themselves killed the National Court Institute at the time, because, on the one hand, they were interested in criticising in very strong laws of former ministers, who had no opportunity to defend themselves in that context, but they did not want to take the step fully by investigating what kind of breach this was of the obligation to provide information. In such a case, it is actually quite important to be aware that the professionalism of the Storting is quite important in assessing the extent and severity of the breach of the obligation to provide information. It is we who know what kind of information it is that could have caused a large group to deal with a case in a different way, and concluded the opposite. Let's take a weather report from or to – what kind of rash would that have made? There is also a need for some judgement in order to assess the seriousness of any retention of information, if it should now be shown that this was about holding information, knowingly or unconsciously. At least I don't know about any lawyer, no matter where in the system it should be, who could have been better to assess the way the SV's pooling group had dealt with that matter, and concluded, than I am. It remains to show me the lawyer – all respect for lawyers otherwise! In the opinion of the SV, there is a need for a thorough review of the whole Constitution. The President-in-Office raised some of these issues in connection with the last visit to the Castle, and I believe that we should use the 200th anniversary of the Constitution in 2014 for a proper review and perhaps a decision of a new constitution. That means that in the discussion that is now going to take place with the Presidency and the party groups, we are also going to include a proposal from us that we should put down a kind of Constitutional Commission that could take a real left-wing clearing in the Constitution. We think that would make sense. I also believe that a public debate on many of these issues would have made known not only the Storting, but also the people around, about important principles for our democracy. What is going to happen is further contact between the parties as to the need to change the National Court Institute, which, in the SV's view, has been killed by the Storting itself. The same thing happened to Stortinget when the breach of professional secrecy related to Berge Furre and Finn Gustavsen was up for treatment. By 47 to 44 votes, the majority voted against the proposal to examine whether this was a breach of the obligation of professional secrecy for the purposes of national law. That doesn't mean that the institute that now exists is perfect. We see a clear need for changes in this system, but we are so constitutional conservative in SV that because if we see weaknesses in the Constitution at some point, and what is, is not working properly, we don't lean on any proposal for change – especially when we think it might be worse than what is today. So much respect should be given to the Constitution that you are absolutely sure that when you go to change, there are changes that will last a few years and that will not have to be cleaned up again.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e307	I should like to begin by referring to the rapporteur's observations and the comments made by the majority of the committee. On behalf of the Left, I will join the majority, at least as far as the conclusion is concerned, and a good deal on the way, too, in terms of the premises, but I also want to express some views. The Riksrecht has been given its special place in Norwegian history, and there is a lot of evidence to suggest that Kristin Halvorsen may be right in pointing out that a lot of talk is that it has also been placed there. Now you should always be a little careful to say that something will never be used, so in each case you have to keep alive at least the theoretical possibility that national law will still be able to be used. But it's quite clear that such a national law is organized, and as it has been applied to now, it is in many ways a little applicable institution, and as I said, it's the closest thing to believe that it belongs to history. The responsibility that can then be put into practice is primarily the parliamentary responsibility that has been mentioned, and it will be to express criticism in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg in relation to actions that have been carried out. And I think in this context there is reason to stress that expressing criticism in the Grand Duchy, at least in more formalized forms, is actually a form of responsibility within the parliamentary system. For single state councils, which are state councils, one might also be able to get a certain reaction in the form that a government council is going to leave without it having to do with the relationship with the Storting. We have examples that state councils have left because of critical circumstances, almost by virtue of the Prime Minister's decision to resign. And finally, you have a reaction in the form of a mistrust proposal and possibly a mistrust decision in the Stortinget. What is characteristic of parliamentary responsibility is that it could be applied in relation to the Government and the Councils of States, but it could not be applied in relation to the representatives of the magistrates, judges of the Supreme Court and, perhaps in many ways, the Councils of State that have resigned. There is therefore absolute reason to address the questions raised by Carl I. Hagen's proposal travels, and there is reason to give Carl I. Hagen a credit for raising these questions, so that perhaps issues relating to the national law, i.e. issues related to responsibility, are put on the political agenda. That is why I would like to express my agreement with the representative, Jørgen Kosmo, who said in his statement, and who was followed up by Kristin Halvorsen, and who, to some extent, has also been involved in some of the other speeches, namely that there may be every reason on the part of Stortinget to address these questions in a proper way in view of changes. With regard to the question of voting in relation to the proposals that we are dealing with today, I would like to say that the Left will not, for its part, understand the reasons that Carl I. Hagen gave for his own vote, as sufficient to vote in favour of the proposal. Now the Left will not express the same constitutional conservatism as in many ways Kristin Halvorsen and Svein Ludvigsen have expressed, we will probably have a greater willingness to change the Constitution than they expressed. But precisely in relation to such a problem as the national law represents, where there are questions of one of the institutional arrangements of the Constitution, it would not be sufficient that the proposal was a little better than the present system, if at the same time it had to be recognised that it was nevertheless necessary to go into it more thoroughly to find better-suited schemes. But I would like to add that my opinion is that there is too kind a view of the present proposals that they will lead to a slightly better system. In fact, it is my opinion that the proposals that are available for consideration here today have such obvious weaknesses that it is close to me to perceive them as wanting to give a less good order than the little good system that we already have. I just want to point out what may be the most important, just a little problematisation of the relationship between the National Attorney General and the Supreme Prosecutor's Office, the King of the Council of State – a lack of problematisation of the fact that the ordinary Courts of First Instance were to judge on matters relating to members of the Supreme Government. There are no solutions that will be satisfactory. If you want to go into these questions more thoroughly, there is no reason now to give so many instructions on the solutions that will come. But I feel pretty sure that reforms in the national law and the institution represented by the national law will have to be in the form of arrangements that will be specific to the ordinary systems we have for the general treatment of criminal matters.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e324	Let me first give you a correction to a name exchange that has entered the setting on page 3 in case of an incursion. It says the Hardanger Bridge. I used the same expression in my post. It's supposed to be the North Hordland Bridge, that's the right thing to do. There a mixture of names has crept in, so it should be corrected. Then I would like to say that I am not satisfied with the outcome of the discussion of this draft constitution, but I am at least a little reassured by what the committee leader and others have said, that they have assured the Storting that it will be put in place or taken the initiative to discuss the issues with a view to – I have to interpret them – that some will be asked to investigate/assess possible changes to the existing system, so the matter has at least come to a proper conclusion on the agenda. Then I want to say that in all my years here it has emerged from time to time political issues where there are just questions about whether the obligation to provide information is fulfilled. We get questions about that from journalists, media and others in matters where a government council has gone off. And then I have sometimes said that well, it must be a question in the case of whether one has to find that – or assess whether – there has been a breach of the Liability Act, where the disclosure obligation is permitted. Then often the journalist looks like a big question mark and immediately says, "Oh, do you mean that it can be national law?" A little bit of my commitment is to try to generalize a law. Infringement of the Liability Act becomes like something huge because of the name and composition of the court. Not in any other context of society do we have that kind of thing. If it is a matter of someone breaking a law, someone should consider whether a case should be brought before the courts. This is where you start right away talking about a possible crime, because of the name and composition of the court. It's just ruining the social debate about whether there's actually been a crime. That's the main thing. If a criminal offence is committed, the composition and name of the court should not be that which would lead to the possibility that liability should not be invoked. But that's what it is in practice. I think it's a little sad that no one has affected this difference between Loke and Tor as it is in the real world. And as Kristin Halvorsen also said, national law, as it is now, is a historical matter, and it's zeroed out of the Storting. This means that we are only going to admit that whatever serious violation of Norwegian law, here the Liability Act, which, according to the law, can really lead to both punishment and fines, it is not a matter of raising a case because the very name of the court and the composition of it and raising the proceedings are so difficult. And that's what I think is the most important thing: that today we have a system where those who sit highest in Norwegian society have a privilege, they don't punish whether or not they have committed criminal acts that have imposed on Norwegian society billions of annual expenditure. It's kind of nothing to care about. The same majority, however, are attacking occupational categories of all kinds, and especially the small ones in society, and persecuting them with supervision, prosecution, punishment and fines and things. That's what's at the heart of this case, there's none of the other speakers that really have affected. I'm glad that Kristin Halvorsen put the spotlight on a point that I haven't seen well enough, and that's the right to it. In ordinary law, a person who is intended – as far as I know, I am now not a lawyer – and, if necessary, very close to a court case, which, for reasons of convenience, is not allowed to travel, may apply for a conviction that he is innocently accused. You have an opportunity to provoke a court-martial just to prove your innocence. You don't have that in the case of national law in the real world. Nor is it in the law. So the size can be said with a broad pen that it and the former state council have violated the information obligation. The person is of a completely different opinion, but cannot apply to a court to prove that he is innocent. Thus, for practical reasons, he has fewer rights in this area to prove his innocence than do ordinary people who are targeted and deprived of sight. It's also a weakness of the existing system. So Kristin Halvorsen said that it is only the Storting, insofar as the different size groups, can assess whether additional information or more accurate information would have resulted in a different position from the group, for example. A weather report. I am very much in agreement with that. The consequence of the error is probably the Storting that can be assessed. But the law has multiple terms. Section 9 states: «Forbid any member of the Government during the examination of a case to provide intentionally information which he understands or ought to understand may have an impact on the matter,...» Here there is some discretion in the assessment. Now I would like to claim that the prosecution authority also has some competence to assess it. Whether this defect or defect is such that it would have led to changes cannot be decided by the prosecution authority. It's only the Stortinge that can assess, even if we can't do it in retrospect, because it's very difficult for the Stortinge today to know what the different size groups, including one's own size group, would have meant a lot of years ago. This applies, for example: this with Gardermoen Airport and a weather report, because the situation is completely different today than it was at the time. But it goes on to say: ‘... or provides intentionally incorrect information, he shall be punished by fines or by imprisonment or imprisonment for up to 5 years.’ In other words, ‘he provides intentionally incorrect information’ – there is no burden of proof that it should be a consequence of the incorrect information. It is punishable to provide the Storting with incorrect information in itself. And you don't have to be a magistrate to assess that, it can also be an prosecution authority and an ordinary court of law. Providing incorrect information is e.g. to say that some business-economy project is profitable, when it is obvious that it is a false information. I just wanted to mention, to what Kristin Halvorsen said, there are two terms in this paragraph. The intentional provision of incorrect information to the Grand Duchy, i.e. knowingly and willfully, is itself a criminal offence, and it does not have to be a magnificence representative in order to check and control. Otherwise, I will insist that our main reason is that we will no longer accept discrimination against Loke and Tor. It has been established through this debate that many of the others see it as absurd, it will not be possible to use it regardless of the situation. And it really means a really big need for the Storting to come up with something instead. For the message that the majority of the population sends to the current and future members of the government, it's that no matter what mistakes they have to make, whether they're lying, cheating, tricking, mixing and leading the Storing behind the light, nothing happens anyway. At least that message cannot live with the Stortinget – or, as Eivind Smith said, one should not be able to live by giving such a message to those people who have enormous power in Norwegian society, among others. Councils of State.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e359	I just want to say one thing about this difference between Tor and Loke. For a government council or for one closely associated with the ministry, criticism in the Storting may be quite inconceivable and quite significant. One shall not underestimate the value of that set from a reaction perspective. It may in many ways be as invigorating and have as great a consequences for future professional practice as a fine has for one who deliberately provides incorrect information to the stock exchange, who is fined because he has committed a breach of the stock exchange law. The presentation by the representative Hagen, underestimating the value of constitutional criticism from the Storting, both in the present and in the after, will therefore not be my part. That criticism is quite serious. Decisions and observations of the body in this country that has been given the most power through the institution and through the development of parliamentary practices are significant in any case, and can be quite harsh. The second thing is -- I think I have to let myself say it -- is that it might seem like the representative Hagen by his way of saying it, in many ways, all Norwegian governments, including state councils, characterize themselves as a kind of semi-criminal. It's a completely different idea than what I have. I believe all of them, without exception, are striving to give the Storting the arguments necessary for the Storting to make the right decisions. The only way to get the Storting to do what you want is really to give the Storting as broad a decision base as possible. It's a consequence of the open society we've fortunately got, where everything comes for a day. Any government council I think will be aware that it is useless to try to bring the Greatness behind the light by providing incorrect information. But it may be that information or information is not provided, and so it is up to the Storting through the Storting's own bodies to assess the response pattern to this. I still believe that the Storting is better suited to do this than the prosecution authority, whether it matters to the nature of the decision, or it matters later. In conclusion, the representative, Hove, made me aware that the representative, Hagen, was guilty of a minor error. There is no occasion in this country to make an appeal, but this is an opportunity in this country to seek sight. There's a big difference between that and that. Of course, there is the possibility of private criminal proceedings, but that is a completely different perspective. I felt it might have been necessary to say that, so that not that misunderstanding would come as a result of this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e370	Carl I. Hagen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e373	I just want to say that I didn't mean to put myself there to say that someone could claim that I have referred to current or previous or potential future state councils as semi-criminals. I've just pointed out the big difference between this profession and big business representatives and Supreme Court judges, and all the other professional categories. So it does not stop Stortinget from making a wide range of legal provisions and rules that result in criminal liability for people in the pursuit of their profession, without suggesting that any doctor, dentist, nurse or police officer or whatever it may be is potential semi-criminals. What I have pointed out is the discrimination between all other professions and the three covered by the provisions of the Liability Act, as a result of the fact that the Liability Act is an ordinary law other than the name and composition of the court and who is the prosecution authority. That's the difference I've allowed myself to point out is not lucky.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e378	So the debate is on case No. 1-inch. [[Votation, see next column.]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e391	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e397	During the debate, Mr Hagen, on behalf of the Progress Party, put forward the following proposals: ‘Proposal 1 of Document No 12 on the amendment of Basic Law Sections 20, 30 and 86 – to be approved.’ [[1995-1996]] The President expects us to be able to vote in the usual way – i.e. at the voting facility. The vote will be taken as an alternative between the vote and the proposal of the Progress Party. – No objections have been raised, and this is what will be done.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e428	I have the feeling that this is going to be a very short affair. A broad majority of the committee rejects a proposal for a constitutional amendment by Peter Angelsen, Roger Gudmundseth, Lars Gunnar Lie, Hans J. Røsjorde and Jan P. Syse concerning the possibility of delegating the power to determine the salary of the depositors to a body independent of the Stortinget. This is a proposal which was considered in the context of the new system for determining the salaries of the grubbing-up representatives, in which a separate Commission would present proposals to the Stortinget. In that context, there were some big business representatives who called for the whole decision to be added to an agency outside of Stortinget. This proposal was then promoted, but does not have a majority in the committee behind it today, simply because we believe that no matter how you turn around and turn it around, the Great Britain will ultimately be responsible for the salaries of its own representatives. So even if one were to adopt a law delegating this responsibility to another body, it would be that if that body, for example, proposes that the deposit representatives should make 2 million. kr in the year, the against-the-counter representatives may liquidate the whole of the law and take the case back to consideration. So the Stortinget can't pretend you don't have the seventh and last responsibility yourself. This situation is, of course, many small business managers in every single day, namely to determine their own salary for the next year, and very many local government and county councils are also in the same kind of situation, and there is no particular understanding that the Storting should free itself from the kind of difficult balances. With that, I would recommend the majority position of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e441	We think that the proposal to amend the Constitution from a number of different representatives from different parties, namely Peter Angelsen, Roger Gudmundseth, Lars Gunnar Lie, Hans J. Røsjorde and Jan P. Syse, deserves the approval of Stortinget. As we read the proposal – that the second sentence of Section 65 of the Constitution be replaced by the second sentence: ‘Hereunder, another body may be assigned a Grand Thing to determine the size of the Restitution’ – it in reality means that it only opens up the possibility for the Storting to, on a later occasion, if the Storting wants it, to entrust this authority to a body other than the Storting. It thus opens up the possibility for the Storting to establish such a system by means of normal majority decisions. We think there should be such an opportunity for Stortinget if the Stortinget wants to do so at a later stage. I will be allowed to take up the proposal from the Progress Party, which is included on page 2 of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e448	Carl I. Hagen has taken up the suggestion he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below.]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e458	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e464	During the debate, Mr Hagen addressed the following proposals on behalf of the Progress Party: ‘Proposal 4 of Document No 12 Acceptance of amendment to Section 65 of the Basic Law.’ [[1995-1996]] The President expects us to be able to vote in the usual way, i.e. by means of voting facilities, and there will be voting alternative between the vote and the proposal of the Progress Party. – No objections have been raised, and this is what will be done.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e495	The proposal to amend Section 71 of the Basic Law means that the deposit of a representative ceases if he resigns or is excluded from the lot. The reasons for the proposal include: that voters voting on a lot list have the expectation that the representatives elected from the list will follow the programme of the lot and comply with decisions taken within the lot group. The proposal violates the principle of the duty of representatives to receive and to carry out their duties. According to the Basic Law, the individual representative of the aggregate has been elected personally and not as a member of a party. The representative is not legally bound by directives and instructions from the batch group or the management of the lot, even if such directives will most often be followed in practice. The situation that loyalty to the district may lead to disloyalty to the party – and vice versa – suggests that the legal independence of a representative towards voters, parties and districts can be desirable. Although today's electoral system is based on political parties, the personality and characteristics of a candidate in the election process, such as in other elections, can be decisive for voters' decisions on party elections. It has therefore not been granted that voters wish a person to resign as a staging representative even if he is excluded from a lot or self-declaration. Paragraph 63(d) of the Basic Law exempts from receipt of election as a wholesaler if one is a member of a political party and is elected on a list which does not originate from this party. So you don't have to be a member of the party to be an electoral candidate. In my view, therefore, the proposal to terminate the employment if the membership of the parties ceases to be inconsistent and implies a shift of influence on the composition of the Stortinge from the voters to the party bodies. A large and broad majority of the Committee considers that it is not desirable to amend the current system and recommends the following decisions: ‘Proposal 6 of Document No 12 On the amendment of Section 71 of the Basic Law – is not accepted.’ [[1995-1996]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e518	I am a little surprised that Mr Hagen's representative is promoting such a clearly little thoughtful proposal. I am not surprised if he is alone in voting for this, in my opinion, a remarkable and little serious constitutional principle. Broken election vows are a problem in the relationship between voters and politicians, but that is not what this proposal is about. I believe that this proposal must be seen first and foremost in the light of the internal problems of individual parties. According to the reasons for the proposal, it has created significant management problems and frustration among voters that individual representatives have for some reason left their party. It may as well be that each party breaks election vows and leaves its party program and for that reason creates frustration among voters and some representatives. Would it be right, then, to legislate that each representative has to resign from the Storting in order for another to enter and ensure that the lot programme and election-lifts continue to be broken? It will also create frustration among the voters, I believe. I am convinced that the mariners would turn to the grave if such a proposal was adopted today. I have to ask, how far down on the list can we risk coming before the party leader can be satisfied? And how much complications and how much ridicule for the Constitution could such a process lead to? We currently also have a delicate case in the Danish People's Party, where everyone in the Progress Party has signed up and formed a new people's group, i.e. a collective report. That means that it might be the party that should have been excluded in relation to the Folketing – if you look at an entirely up-to-date situation in the Danish Folketing concerning the sister party of the proposer’s party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e529	When Inger Lise Husøy talks about our ancestors at Eidsvoll wanting to turn around in the grave, I'm going to ask questions as to whether they might have done it a long time ago, because they didn't notice that political parties were to be formed, and that it was supposed to be the political parties that are actually the main basis for the democratic decision-making processes in Norway. At least that time the partisan was not invented. Let me first draw attention to – and I have done so to all those who have been asking for many years – that this is a proposal that I have submitted on my own behalf and not on behalf of the Progress Party. It was made known when it was submitted in the previous pouring period. I am fully aware that very many now can have fun at my expense, and I accept that fully. With what we've been through, and what I'm going through from time to time, it's "peanuts" if part of the representatives from other parties have it fun at my expense, so it's fine. But what I have tried to put on the search light is the combination of systems that we have in the Norwegian electoral system today. The applicant's rapporteur said that the Gdańsk representatives are ‘in person’. That's what I allow myself to put a big question mark on. The vast majority of voters think I will answer quite differently, at least in very many states. They want to know which party they've given their vote to in big shots, but there will be a lot of people who don't even know the name of those who are in the top places on the list they have chosen. I'm going to claim that for the voters the situation appears quite different. I believe that the voters vote more on the political parties and have in mind the party programme and the political attitudes they have learned to know through the media coverage of the Stortinget, through the media coverage of politics – perhaps especially represented by the most well-known in each political party. It is from time to time that frightening polls show that the knowledge of the people who are currently sitting in the Storing is sadly poor. Most can give the name of 15, 20, 30, 40 depositors, and many have revealed that they do not know the name of the depositors from their own country. The situation you're trying to draw, that elections to the Storing are personal choices, it's not right in the real world. And it's already introduced into our constitution. You talk about – as Inger Lise Husøy did – that you can't break the Constitution. No, you change the Constitution in case, and it's actually changed since our ancestors at Eidsvoll made it. An electoral system has been established in Norway with special treatment of national registered parties. There are legal rules for how many signatures are needed to form a list based on a nationally registered lot. It is enough that the list of elections is signed by the elected representatives of that party in the county. Other lists can also be created. I don't know if the number is still 500, but I think there's 500 signatures from a state that's going to approve a list that's not based on a nationally registered party. So the fact that the parties are incorporated into our legislation on elections, most of them agree. Walking around and pretending that there has not been any changes since 1814 in relation to the fact that everyone is personally elected, I think at least you can not. The lots are also included in the Constitution. As far as I recall, it was adopted unanimously, without any particular debate. They were introduced by the provisions of the Basic Law on Cohesion mandates, which are allocated to those political parties which on a national basis have not received enough district representatives compared to the overall election result for Norway as a single constituency. So the principle that the parties are of great – I would say crucial – importance is already enshrined in the Constitution. The problem is now emerging in Norway with regard to the consequences of changes in what is being submitted to the electorate. I refer to some examples in the setting. I'd like to bring another one. It was a forgetfulness that I didn't take it with me, so I'm going to satisfy the assembly to do that. I have mentioned some examples from previous history: Inge Staldvik signed out of the Workers' Party and entered SV, Arne Kielland signed out of the Workers' Party and entered the SF and four from the Advance Party's Group in the previous period signed out of the Party. When I myself entered the Stortinget in 1974, I was not a member of that party whose list I was elected to. I did what I could to change, and I spent eight months to get the party membership in order, according to the party I was elected for. I can take myself as an example; at the moment I met at Stortinget, I was not a member of that party. But this was before I came to the Storting. We also get reactions from voters when such changes occur. We got a number of reactions in the previous period with questions from ordinary voters as to how those who had left the party could continue to represent the voters who had given their vote to the party and the party's policy, and not necessarily to the elected representatives. We referred to the Constitution. I assume that the Workers' Party got the same reactions when their two representatives went into another party. I actually think it is that even around municipalities and counties react voters when one representative might change the balance of one local government by leaving his party and going over to another. My point is at least that this must then also be seen by several people as a kind of issue. Is this something we have to deal with – are we going to operate with political parties for all practical purposes, but when it comes to the matter, let it be the individual representative who should have the advantage of being personally elected, even when everyone knows that this is not why he is here? At least I feel this as a dilemma and a problem that should be looked at. It is possible that instead of inculcating it so as to get out of the Storting – and similarly, I would say, as a consequence of it, also out of other elected bodies – if the membership of the party for which you have been elected ceases, then maybe you can go the other way, which some have suggested in the public debate, and look more precisely at getting the elections more personal, possibly by accessing cumulation and ironing on the lists. And you could do that. But I think the current mix can be problematic. I've been in Stortinget for a couple of periods where it's actually been such a composition that only one person who changed from so-called socialist to non-socialist side or vice versa would have led to a change of government. And then it is a question of whether it is that one representative, perhaps relatively anonymous, elected to a party list, should have the enormous power and should be able to use it in the discussions within each group? I can't see that the whole system has really opened up to it. I would personally claim that what the voters vote for is a kind of trinity. You vote on a party, based on the party's policies set out in the programme and in practice. It was said that it may often be the party that violates its promises, and the party that abandons its policies. It's at least, I would say, the most likely, if there's one person in a party and one big group who disagrees with the rest, it's the rest that matches the program of the party and the profile of the party, and not the one single representative. At least it's more likely to be 90 pst. does not make any mistakes other than 10 pst. Do it. So the probability is that it's the individual who doesn't relate to the program. This Trinity is thus a party's programme, profile and attitudes known to the voters through practice in the conduct of political activity and through the programme. Secondly, it is the rules governing the decision-making system. All parties and large-scale groups have a code that says that if the batch program can be interpreted in different directions, there is a system to determine it in the bulk group. At least we have it, and I assume that others have it. As a rule, the majority of two thirds may bind the last third to vote in accordance with the decision of the two thirds majority. At the same time – mentioned districts – there is, in practice, great freedom for individual representatives in all groups to take care of the interests of their districts. In localisation issues, it is quite normal for all representatives representing one of the districts of a conflict to be allowed to support their district. It's perfectly normal, so there's no problem, so I feel it at least. The third thing, as well as the party's policy through practice and programme and decision-making, is then the representatives. Of course, the representatives are important. It was said that it might be that some people are voting on a party list in a state because of it and it. That's quite right, but there may also be a number of voters who vote on the party's list despite the candidates that the party apparatus has set up through nomination meetings, because you have loyalty, agree with the party's policy and know that there are representatives from a number of other states that you might actually trust to keep their own little in check. It could go either way. There's no one who knows what the voters really think about these things. It is clear that this draft constitution violates what has so far been the principle of the Constitution, that being elected to the Stortinget in Norway is an obligation and not a right. But as Inger Lise Husøy mentioned, it is already hollowed out. It's hollowed out in the sense that if you're put on a party list for Stortinget, you can just go and join another party, you'll get a waiver from standing there. It also has something to do with age. You can get away if you're so old. So this principle is already eroded. In practice, no one will be able to participate in the Storting against their own will. Measures to avoid being on the list may be taken. So that principle change is already implemented. It is possible that we should also look at schemes in other countries. It was noted that if a member of a pool resigns from its lot and enters another, it may be in accordance with the opinion of the voters. Yes, I will not reject that in principle. But I will now claim that the probability speaks for that the voters in the county, the district, will essentially be dissatisfied. It can be expected that the voters are dissatisfied, because they have voted in favour of this Trinity more than one candidate, which is one of the chosen candidates. At least it's more likely than the opposite. But then the question arises that Inger Lise Husøy actually put his finger on, whether we should be able to recall the chosen ones in Norway – we have it in some other countries. In America, you have that possibility. A sufficient number of signatures may be collected to require a selected one to be revoked by a new choice. That access does not exist in Norway. We've had discussions about the right of dissolution, about a greater degree of personal choice in the decision-making process. Maybe you should also look at, if it's pickers, for example. in a district, which, until those degrees, is dissatisfied with the efforts of a person, if they are to have the right to withdraw him or her, whatever he or she may do with his or her party membership. If you want to secure the voters more influence, and it could actually be in what Inger Lise Huiseøy said, then there are also opportunities to do something about it. If you have the principle that political parties really shouldn't have any special place, despite the fact that everyone knows that today it's absolutely crucial in most cases, you might start talking about one-man circles again and that the voters will have a decisive influence on personal choice. You can open up to what we tried, and as I see it has been talked about in the public debate, a more open nomination. It tried the Progress Party in 1985 – with very poor results, but it is often that when we do new things, it seems bad, and then someone else thinks ten years later, and then hugs him as a visionary newsmaker. Then we carried out a kind of nomination process with open meetings and debates between the candidates, so-called primary elections, with far greater influence from others when it came to who would be the top candidates. It's possible there's also something you can look at. That's at least, as I see it, some remarkable things within today's system. The fact that each representative or a few should have the right to decide the change of government by leaving one party and going into another, I actually don't think most voters had dreamed of being the consequence. But I respect that this is a very, very difficult question. There are very divided views in their own party. It was the representative of Husøy who said that I deserved to stand alone to vote for this. I have nothing against that in case. I've been on my own before, and it hasn't at least weakened me, as I've seen, in those contexts. I think this issue deserves a good deal of attention. I think I'm completely in line with the vast majority – not everyone, far away. The vast majority of voters today vote in the election of a political party, a politically adopted programme, a decision-making system and the candidates who had to be on the list. Some vote for one political party solely because they may support one who is a candidate in another state. I allow myself to take up the proposal on my behalf; it is not on behalf of the Group of the Progressive Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e577	The President has noticed that Mr. Hagen has taken up the suggestion he himself referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e582	This proposal by the Progress Party is well grounded in an announcement by the four representatives of the Progress Party from 1993 to 1997. We know that we have created a great deal of unrest and strife in the party. The case spokesperson has presented why the plural setting has become what it has become, so I will not go into it. However, the majority in the Committee points out that: «according to the Basic Law, the individual representative of the aggregate has been elected personally and not as a member of a party. A aggregate representative shall be legally independent of his or her voters, of his or her party and of his or her district and shall not be allowed to resign from his or her duties.’;» It is also the case that in a municipal election, county election, or shopping choice, good features such as being casual and having social engagements are decisive for the voters of whom will vote in a choice. So when the proposer justifies his proposal that the voters vote on a game and a game program and not on individuals, this is not correct. One often matches some people. The majority will not change this, and we cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e592	Was that a line?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e599	It was a line, yes – as the president also suggested.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e602	I'm sorry, President, but I didn't really see the question in the line. It sounded more like an article. That's why I wondered if I had misunderstood the President's statements. The representative, Laila Kaland, says that, according to the Basic Law, you are selected personally. Other provisions of the Basic Law and ordinary law have been adopted because people have voted on a party's list. That's actually the normal thing. I guess it's just Anders Aune who in recent times has been elected on a different list than on a political party's list. That's because you're there, you're selected. I have also said quite clearly that when you are elected to today's system, you are completely free, and there are no legal rules. It's clear. It's today's system. Every time someone proposes to change the Constitution, it's because you want something different than the existing. So the fact that it's contrary to the Constitution to do that, can't be an argument to change the Constitution. So Laila Kaland says what is also in the majority's comment: ‘The majority consider that in the event of roll-out elections, as in the case of other elections, the personality and characteristics of a candidate may be decisive for the election of the voters.’;» Yes, it can. But I would point out that the probability does not speak for the majority of those who have voted on a party list in a state to do so because of the candidates. It is the very party that most of the polls show that people have voted for. I mentioned this Trinity. Of course, there are also candidates. But it's also true, as Mr. Kaland pointed out, that one of the reasons why I promoted this proposal was what we experienced in the previous period. We got a storm of enquiries from the leaders of the Progress Party on how it could have been that those who had left our party remained in the Stortinget. There were angry voters who were not satisfied with any explanations I pointed out about the Constitutional System. They said they voted for the party – some also said the party's leadership – and they wanted them to go out. Then I promised that on my personal behalf I would make a proposal that reflected the views expressed by most voters.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e619	I can't wait when the representative Carl I. Hagen stands here and reminds me most of Haakon Lie and least of himself. In addition, it must be that it has been a long time since he has been out among his constituents, for he describes a sort of higher Trinity of batch programmes, persons and decision-making systems, and believes that is what the voters voted for. When I meet your voters, Carl I. Hagen, they have voted for Carl and not for a lot of higher Trinitys! [[Laughter]] That's a paradoxical suggestion, because if this was the Constitution in 1974, Carl I. Hagen had never come to the Stortinget, because then Carl I. Hagen himself was a member of another party. Now I don't know if it had been a big sleep or a big joy. Today I might have thought it had been a little sad. But it says something about how paradoxical the whole proposal is. In addition, it becomes quite paradoxical when this is a personal proposal by Carl I. Hagen, who breaks with all sorts of trinitarians in the Progress Group. Now we don't know how many people are going to vote with Carl I. Hagen finally, but let's see, maybe a majority in the group is opposed. If Carl I. Hagen were to take his own thinking on the parties seriously, this proposal would never have been promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e626	Whether the proposal would have been promoted probably depends on the tolerance and mood that had been in the previous group. As I said, the decision-making systems are that there are two-thirds majority who can decide to bind the last minority. But the vast majority of groups show a relatively high degree of flexibility, and there are many times it is also obvious that it is okay if individual representatives have a different opinion than the majority in the group. That's the way it is in the Progress Party. When I promoted this proposal, it was after I had also dealt with it in the group, where there was no general agreement. It was a divided group, as it was also in the previous period. But we have promoted it – those who agreed, or I have done so – because of the promise given to a number of voters who approached us to put this problem on the agenda. Secondly, when I ignore the policy of the person to whom Kristin Halvorsen compared me, that is, the political content, I have to say that as an overall assessment, I take that comparison as a compliment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e635	The representative Hagen addressed about all the topics currently being debated in relation to the relationship between voters and elected representatives. But I believe that Hagen cannot seriously believe that it is politically and constitutionally unproblematic to introduce a new principle into the Constitution that is so clearly contrary to the Constitution. That's why the majority is against this. The representative Hagen also drew attention to the fact that individuals could have a dramatic impact on the political system. That's how it works today. It could be a one-man group, for example. in Oslo City Hall, which determines which city council is to govern during the four-year period. So I can't quite see that his comparison is durable either. I feel that Hagen is attracting a lot of other institutional relationships into the political system. The Labour Party has the same experience, as Hagen pointed out in his statement, without drawing the same conclusion, and that is because the Constitutional proposal here is only suitable for solving Hagen's own problems, and is not constitutional in nature. It's admirable that the representative Hagen puts so much commitment into such a bad proposal, but it doesn't get any better for that reason. The previous reply also confirmed that this is primarily for intra-medical use.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e644	First of all, I'm putting so much commitment into it. I don't know what Inger Lise Huiseøy here is aiming for, whether it's that I'm answering lines, that I'm talking too loud, or what. I wonder. Most people who have seen me in the Great Council chair know that I'm basically showing commitment to most of the things where I'm up, and at least in every line changer. So if it's also going to be used against me, and I have to speak lowly and carefully and humbly: I'm not going to do that. So to the Constitution's intent. In this case, the violation of the Constitution would have been when the parties were introduced into the Constitution! If it is the Constitutional Law's intention that the parties should not exist, it was in the event that the intention was broken – by a unanimous increase, as far as I recall, when the cohesion mandate system was put in place. So at least you can't come and say that my proposal to change the Constitution itself is unconstitutional – that's what she's trying to say, because the Constitution shouldn't change the intention. That's what I think. Then she talks about there are many things that are being debated at the moment. Yeah, that's right. But it could be interesting sometimes to have these debates in the big room, so if this system of big shots and the relationship between parties and voters and parties and representatives is a topic that's being discussed, we could get some views on it maybe in the big room as well. I guess there's nothing wrong with that. It should be interesting in a moment to ask the voters in Skedsmo municipality never so little questions about how they think the situation is, when the Labour Party management there will exclude a representative who has been in Stortinget for 20 years because of his behaviour. Do they think it is right that they continue in the local government and do what he can to create difficulties for the Workers' Party, which the voters actually thought they were in favour of when they used that list? It should be interesting to see the reactions of the voters to the fact that they continue to work towards the Workers' Party in Skedsmo Municipality. I think one should take inwards that there are some problems here, completely independent of those we had in our group in the previous period.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e657	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e660	At best, you might characterize Carl I. Hagen's proposal for changes to the Constitution § 71 as a proposal made in a kind of party political affect, where tolerance and ceiling height have been in a downward curve. After all, I have always seen the representative Carl I. Hagen as very knowledgeable in Stortinget's Rules of Procedure, in procedure and in the spirit and intentions of the Constitution. But this proposal opens up an arbitrariness that I had hardly thought any elected representatives would want to go in for. Then the other member of the Committee of Constitutional Affairs of the Progress Party, Vidar Kleppe, has also found that he would not support the proposals of party leader Hagen. Hagen thus, as he has also mentioned, stands alone as both a proposaler and a committee member in the position. Where, then, are we going with Hagen's proposals in their utmost consequence? Perhaps the representative, Mr Kleppe, has thought as to me – quite hypothetically, of course – that if, in a given situation, the parliamentary leader of a party becomes sufficiently divided with a few members of his group – let us say, still hypothetically, the representatives of Eastfold and West-Agder – a majority of the group in question could, under strong pressure from the leadership, actually test the voters and replace the elected representatives with their representatives of the people. And if the new representatives did not agree with the demands of power for partisan discipline, then the exclusion and new peoples, ever further down on the list, from the parties in question in Eastfold and West-Agder – once again just as an example of course – who were able to test the bench until obedience was understood. This is not democracy, and it is in no way in line with the intentions of the founding fathers for the composition of the Storting and the integrity and representativeness of the representatives. On the other hand, it opens up a chance for Storting’s composition based on the sympathies and antipathies of the staging representatives and colleagues. In the opinion of the Right, it is fortunately long between each time we deal with such a poorly thought-out proposal here in Stortinget, and fortunately even less so that we do so in connection with a constitutional proposal. I can understand the irritation, yes frustration that many can feel when a elected staging representative chooses to break with his party in the middle of a period. It is not just the proposer who has had such a situation caught. This is unfair, of course, to the members of the party, who have shown confidence by nominating him, and it is unfair to the voters. Of course, it is possible to argue that the voters vote more in the party than in the person, and that the mandate therefore belongs in a way to the party more than to the individual elected representative. But you cannot, in the opinion of the Right, open such a practice with regard to who owns the chosen seat – the elected one or the party. There should be no doubt that the chosen one is elected, and only national law can do anything about it, not a random rent in a party whether it is Hagen's party or my own for that matter. But I have no problem seeing that, after all, it's been a long time since the ideal of the completely independent representative was reality in the Norwegian political system. Nevertheless, I still think it is that the voters want to be represented by independent people and not only by people who are allowed to rule party decisions. I also think that there are enough examples from this room that it has been possible to get good results from, for example, representatives. from a part of the country or from a state, and Hagen himself was inside it, has stood together across the party divisions. If the proposer were to be able to have its decision adopted here today, it would mean that it would be possible to effectively put an end to all forms of individualism and all forms of independent behaviour in the Stortinget. Thus, it will be up to the majority of a group at any time to get rid of so-called hard-working representatives without any more formalities, or to threaten them to obey during the party fold. This is not democracy. Even when I add the credit, it is difficult to understand that this proposal has been made in full seriousness, which I naturally accept that it is. Even more difficult is to understand that it has been presented by the leader of a party that often claims to give greater room for independence and individualism than other parties. Life and learning prove not to be related in this case, however, in relation to the Constitution. I'm not going to say much more about this, but it would be of some interest to know about this proposal which, to the degrees that restricts the decision-making authority of the electorate, has broad support among members of the Progress Party and elected representatives around the country, while at the same time it will be interesting to see how many of the members of the Progress Party group support the party leader's draft law to throw them out of the Storting by excluding them from the party. This proposal is about lack of respect for voters, as I see it. The right-hand group will vote in favour of the vote and therefore reject Mr Hagen's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e679	I think maybe there was a little bit of radiating here eventually – I don't least blame it for sailing. Carl I. Hagen points out, in his explanatory statement for the proposal, a very clear imbalance in our political system, where the voters have little influence as to which people are elected on behalf of the parties, where the parties have the decisive influence. Then Carl I. Hagen goes a totally surprising way, to me. I would have thought that on the basis of his own political history – what I have heard from Carl I. Hagen in the past – Carl I. Hagen would be the first to go the other way and said that the voters must have greater influence over who places first on the lists of the parties or who is actually elected. These are very exciting things, which are now under consideration in the Election Law Committee, and I hope that they are bold enough to come up with a lot of suggestions that will allow you to look at how politics can develop, because there is no doubt that the parties are struggling with confidence in relation to the people most. SV and SF have always been a modern party in the sense that we've never organized more than 5 pst. of our electors as members. And when one looks at the parties and sees whether all members are active, one will see that there are few people who dominate in debates, make suggestions, etc. With regard to the influence of the voters on what the parties are doing, and the influence of the members on what the parties ultimately decide, it is not the big problem that there are too many participants, but that there are too few. The big challenge has led some people to believe that the parties are becoming fanclubs for popular party leaders. I have no faith that it is a way to go in Norwegian democracy. We're going to have more and more educated voters, we're going to have more and more enlightened voters, we're going to have voters who demand to be heard, who demand to be taken on board, who have things to come with, even between choices. The big challenge for all political parties then is to invite voters in. I don't believe in the late coffee picker. I think a lot of home seats are flying. I think a lot of home-sitters who don't come to the polls in elections are active, enlightened and politically interested people who don't regain their political interest in what the parties are doing, and who rather collect money for Amnesty than go and vote, or help in their community or are engaged in other ways. I might be idyllizing a little, but I think that's the big challenge: how can you say that you take the voters seriously, invite them between elections and be responsible for what you're doing? What lies at the head of Carl I. Hagen's proposal in the relationship between the parties and us who are trusted, and the voters, I am very critical of and quite afraid of. I believe that the statement in the Basic Law of personal responsibility each of us 165 representatives in this Chamber has contributed to making it a more serious job and a more serious job as it should be. It always means that you can't hide behind a party, that you can say, yes, but it was SV who decided, it wasn't me. Take, for example: The Kosovo war, or vice versa – Rwanda, where we did nothing. There really never was any big debate in the Storting about it at last, but we could have dragged it in a completely different and more active way. It's clear that each of us 165 representatives has the responsibility that each of us has in that situation, which is for what kind of advice you gave. I think that means that you have a certain quality assurance, and I actually think that Carl I. Hagen in his book has said it quite well. He says, «A lesson or experience also came to me in the Martin Gustavsen case,...» – this is so when Carl I. Hagen in 1974 sits alone on the Stortinget for the Reform Party – «... the danger of collective responsibility. If we humans as individuals do something wrong, or if we're going to make a decision alone, we're very careful, we're going to get into the case and do our best to make the decision or what we're doing right. We know that in such a case it is “I alone as an individual who has all the responsibility for the consequences if I am wrong or do something stupid”. But if we can share responsibility with others, then our personal commitment and ‘my personal responsibility’ decrease proportionally to the number of decisions and responsibilities shared with.” This I think might be going a little bit far. There is always a balance between one's own individual responsibility and a collective decision, and who is involved in a collective decision, which ultimately decides. But I think that Carl I. Hagen here is a little right, that there should be a personal responsibility for each of the big business representatives that makes it impossible to hide behind others in difficult decisions. That's exactly what I think the voters are earned, and I think the parties are earned. There is often a plight for each representative, but there is no way out, and it is in that balance that the further debate on party, representativeness and trust in elected bodies should go.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e699	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e702	I must first thank Kristin Halvorsen for reading Hagen's law, launched in 1983. Those were wise words, written by a young, forward-looking person. Kristin Halvorsen said that we have to find ways to engage the voters, also between choices, and she talked about the informed, interested and skilled selection, and I end up with that as a wish, but I have little faith that it will be the mark of the voters. There is probably a difference between trends in less and less interest on the part of the electorate. I want to ask whether Kristin Halvorsen agrees or disagrees with my analysis that very many voters – not those who are members of political parties and active, but voters in general – are actually far more interested in individual matters than choosing between parties and party programmes, voters are concerned with individual matters. Would not the natural answer to her question then be that also SV – or she – should be in favour of greater use of referendums in individual cases, where we can just involve the voters in the matters in which they are interested? Those who wanted to take an active part in a referendum debate are those who are engaged, while those who are not interested in the matter might not participate. At least that would be the way to get the interested person to make decisions. For only those who are interested in the question that was promoted to referendum would engage, and perhaps only they would participate. Then the matter would at least be decided by the kind of voters that Kristin Halvorsen came here with a tribute to, the one in the matter that informed, knowledgeable and knowledgeable.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e711	Well, I think that Norwegian policy can tolerate a few more referendums. What is demanding about referendums is that there must be clear yes- and no-answers in order to find out what the voters are actually deciding on. I think many other things are much more complex for us – and for the voters too. One of the big challenges for the parties is to open their closed rooms. Let me come back to the Kosovo debate in SV. We noticed that many, when we had a national meeting, saw how we all got along with that matter. We realized that many thought that it was actually quite interesting to work with us through all the dilemmas that were; what arguments were stressed, what principles were up, etc. I think the parties in general are too afraid to open up the discussions they have in advance of decisions, so that the voters have the opportunity to join in and see what kind of assessments they're actually making. Many voters are struggling with the mix of positions of a batch, not matching the mix of the seams they stand for. It is to a great extent linked to the time of the industrial community. But both the SF, SV and the Advance Party were actually formed later than the more established parties, and have other historical reasons than that. I think that we might also have a head start on some other parties in relation to how it is possible to work in a more open and inclusive way, but also so that the involvement in individual matters takes place in the political decision-making system.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e720	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e724	The representative, Carl I. Hagen, has put forward a draft constitution. In his explanatory statement in the debate on this proposal, he gave a number of general considerations which, although varied, could indeed be agreed on a long way, and partly clearly agreed. This applies, for example: that it would be right to give the possibility of a greater impact on the election of the Storting – which I certainly believe is the right idea – and similarly that there may be reason to give greater room for referenda than the current system provides. I also agree that there may be a result of today's system that there might be cause for regret. But if a representative changes the lot, it is certain that part of the voters who voted on the lot at the last election have also changed the lot. So it's not given that the representative who changes the batch, if any, is necessarily so little representative of the voters that it can't in itself be a corresponding picker transition. I also have to say that in the debate I notice that Carl I. Hagen is a master at gaining income for the Advancement Party a number of views and thoughts that have been taken up at an earlier time and, when others may come up with similar views, take credit for having thought these thoughts first. And in some cases that may be true, but I have to say that part of the views expressed today by the representative Hagen and given the impression that the Progress Party has thought first, I know well from the debates in the Left in the last part of the 1960s. At that time, the Left was quite concerned about some of the issues related to the parties, about ensuring batch financing, but also about the issue of increased influence on personal choice and on the issue of referendums. But these are the general considerations that are used to justify the proposal. What we really have to decide here is to change the legal framework by changing the Constitution. And then we might have other effects from such a decision than those partly presented as a justification for the proposal. What is the reality of the proposal put forward by Mr Hagen is that Hagen wants to strengthen the party discipline through constitutional changes. What we're talking about, in fact, is legislating partisan discipline. And that's a thought that, as far as I know, the party that I, for my part, have perceived as being the greatest exponent of party discipline, the Workers' Party, has never even ventured to dream of.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e735	Since the Central Party is not represented in the Control and Constitutional Committee, I am only taking the floor to confirm that the Central Party supports the majority in the vote. The representative Ludvigsen made it very clear how hopeless this proposal is at my discretion. Similarly, the representative Kristin Halvorsen pointed to a very important element, namely the personal responsibility of each representative, which must be combined with the party's policy. The parties are not an end in themselves, but important tools in democratic society. The challenges are probably ahead of many of the parties in order for them to be revitalised, but I do not think that is part of this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e744	In a debate like this one can of course sometimes risk entanglement on a few sidings, but I got an association with the representative Harald Hoves ending, where he seemed to connect in particular the Workers' Party with party discipline. Now, of course, it can have its starting point that the party I represent was a party that eventually got a big group, while what Harald Hove represents was a big group that eventually became a party. Of course, you can have a slightly different starting point for what will be crucial in some decision-making processes. It also reminds me that when a few years ago I received the honor of being elected head of the Workers' Party's big group, I received a nice letter from a friend who asked if I had intended to follow in the footsteps of the previous parliamentary leader of the Workers' Party from the same county that I represent, and who, as I know, was named after himself a form of parliamentaryism of my own. But not even at that time would anyone in the Workers' Party be in a position to legislate the party discipline, for it should not be too convenient to lead a party or a grouping, because in turn it can lead to a democratic loss of opinion in the form of a break-up, whether internal or public. Here, of course, we have several party political interests to attend to. However, the observance of these party political interests cannot be overlooked by the ability of an elected representative of the grubbing-up to act in accordance with his or her own convictions and conscience. And for me, perhaps the most important element in this matter is something which, in particular, Kristin Halvorsen pointed out, that one does not have to in any way set himself in such a way that each representative's own responsibility can get comfortable paths out into a Community overall. It will probably also be a democratic loss, and at least it will be a loss for the dissent that a national Parliament must and must have. Of course, it's true that the parties are the essential factor in how the Storing is compounded. Of course, it is also important for each representative to go to the elections on a programme. It is also important that the parties, as far as there is advice, seek to stay together in the handling of matters in Stortinget, and for that reason in local government, because voters voting on this party have a expectation of it. But on the basis of this practical approach and this expectation of the voters to make it a constitutional system that it should be so, in my view would be a quite serious democratic retreat.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e755	Carl I. Hagen has spoken once earlier and has a speaking time of up to 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e758	After listening to the gentlemen Ludvigsen, Hove and Thoresen, who had a sort of jubilation of the independent individual representative, I have to admit that I think it sounded a little hollow. After hearing these observations, one would believe that the ordinary proceedings in Stortinget were that each representative made his decision in each case based on his own understanding – that it was the normal thing. I would like to mention that the normal thing is that each party group discusses the matter – sometimes only in the group board, sometimes only in the fraction within the party, and that the other members of the same group join their fraction or the group board, and that certain matters are decided in the group meeting. That's what's normal. The independent representative who, after careful assessment and conviction, chooses to have a different position from his party, is of course a rareness, so I think it could be a little restrained when it comes to tying this up. It is not just that the parties exist – if you read something called Stortingen’s Rules of Procedure – you will see that it is permeated by the party groups. You might say it's wrong, but I haven't heard that any of the people who have expressed themselves eloquently about the independent individual representative have actually done so. The whole system is soaked in by the parties – and I think at least you could admit it. I fully respect that we have different conclusions in the matter, and that's good arguments the other way, too, I'm fully aware of that. But this kind of jubilee seems to me to be a little remarkable. So it's not just how the Greatness is compounded that has something to do with the parties, that's how the Greatness works as a national parliament. The whole system in this house is permeated by the party groups – and what I think actually belongs here. Then there is another general 'democracy problem' that is not really part of this debate, but that has to do with the parties. Kåre Willoch has recently talked a lot about this – that is, fewer parties. If one is to have a powerful national assembly and solid support for a government, the strong parties are a consequence of getting into such things. A system in which all 165 representatives voted at all times as they would, thought and wished in every case, would well be what in old days was called a ‘Polish Parliament’, where it was not possible – let’s say – to get some party leaders or parliamentary leaders together and discuss discussions and perhaps make a kind of decision subject to the approval of their respective groups. If all 165 in all contexts appeared separately, there would be a significant problem. So I have to say that this jubilation of such thinking might be going a little bit too far. It is also necessary to look at the justification and necessity of some rules in order to arrive at decisions within groups, to which it is expected in normal contexts that the whole group will join unless there are special circumstances, as it may be in some cases. I just wanted to say this, because I see this jubilation of a model where only single representatives were going to operate, went a little over the boots. I must also say that it was a rosy image, sir. The Ludvigsen drawn from the conditions in the Right, when we know how the partisan in the Right led to the unfortunate decision to build a main airport on the Gardermoen!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e780	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e783	Carl I. Hagen has now given a description of how Stortinget works – and that's a correct description. He has thus given a description of how the Storting should normally work, and I will give my agreement that this is how the Storting should work. But that's how Stortinget normally works now, with the legal status of the individual representative of big business now. And when this system works this way, I would be very interested in weakening the legal mandate of the individual representative for his own mandate. In my opinion, this can only lead to each representative becoming weaker against the majority of his own party, and against his own party leadership. Of course, there may be a slightly different need for different parties at the more practical level, depending on the experience they might have, but what is important is that parliamentaryism and therefore the voluntary party discipline work well in the Norwegian political system. We're going to be careful to change that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e798	I'm glad that Tom Thoresen and I agree that the current system works for most cases in a sensible, tidy, proper and orderly way. I have not said anything about the situation in the current period at all. There are some in the media who have presented it as if this Constitutional proposal from my side was delivered a month ago – ‘now Hagen is taking up suggestions’. I would just like to remind you that the proposal was submitted before the last year of the previous majorization period, so this is not a matter that has been updated now. But at the time it was a topical matter, and the situation changed. I'm full of the fact that Tom Thoresen found it convenient with the system we have, because it was at least one misappropriation that was voted down, but which, if we had another system, would have been adopted. That also Tom Thoresen has had the joy of the existing system, should probably be taken into account in history. In fact, the current system can have significant consequences. It happened for our group in the previous period, and for other groups in the past. I think it has made sense in itself with a debate. In any case, I think it is right that Tom Thoresen admits that there are also significant advantages to the operation on behalf of the parties, and that there is some discipline and order, so that, when we come to the Chamber, we are usually and normally the decision-makers of party groups and not only operate on behalf of the individual representative.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e807	The representative Hagen stated that part of us, including me, should have welcomed the individual independent representative. In addition, he re-examines questions relating to the parties in particular and the function of the parties in general, and this leads to a justification for the draft constitution we are dealing with here. In any case, I get to give my support to what Thoresen's representative said in his reply, and for the more daily, general business in the Stortinget, that means that there is a fairly large consensus that it usually works in a proper way. But what is at the same time absolutely necessary is the responsibility of each representative also for the working system we have, and for the decisions that come about on the basis of the working arrangements we normally have. It was precisely the representative Hagen who took care of the first matter we had to deal with here today. In relation to the issue of national law, highlighting individual responsibilities was very central. What then is my question to the representative Hagen is: one thing is that you can have views that there may be unfortunate aspects of today's system, or the outcome of it, which is not always considered reasonable, but is it not a bad thing to repair it by legislating party discipline?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e818	Let me remind you that the starting point from my point of view has been the concern of the voters. I am still fully convinced that a majority in most cases, if not in all, would have thought it right for a representative who signed up from a party to leave the Stortinget. That some legal rules are required on the internal relationships of the parties with regard to exclusion, I accept, but it can be regulated by law, so that a party management cannot get rid of what can be called independent representatives, in an easy way. It's obviously absolutely necessary to have legal rules in this area, but it can be shaped by the laws and rules that already exist for the parties in order to be registered politically, so it's fully possible to do so. Otherwise, I find that there are not so many different points of view when it comes to the matter, as I have pointed out, except for the conclusion, that I think that when one goes out of one party or party membership ends in a neat way, the voters deserve another. But there's the shared perceptions. At least we will see when we come up with a couple of other issues in the autumn of the new year, matters that are being dealt with in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, how many of the independent representatives around in the parties who are thoroughly involved in matters and assess their obligations under the provisions of the Liability Act and the legal responsibility that the Liability Act should also be complied with in the cases where it is relevant. I think it's going to be very exciting to see how much independence you have in some big groups when they get there.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e825	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e834	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e840	During the debate, Mr Hagen put forward the following proposals: ‘Proposal 6 of Document No 12 on the amendment to Paragraph 71 of the Basic Law is accepted.’ [[1995-1996]] The President expects that this time too we can vote in the usual way, i.e. in the case of voting facilities, and there will be voting alternative between the vote and the motion by Carl I. Hagen. – No objections have been raised, and this is what will be done.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e869	The present proposal is a proposal from Lars Sponheim to new § 100a of the Basic Law, the principle of disclosure. A proposal has been submitted in two alternatives and the majority of the Committee agrees that the proposals are not acceptable. For the sake of order, I would like to mention, on behalf of the Committee, as an addition to the Committee's recommendation, that 'Proposal No. 9 of Document No. 12 for 1995-96 to new § 100a of the Basic Law option 2 is not acceptable. It is a unanimous committee that recommends that option 2 not be accepted either. In the vote, the majority of the Committee – all parties other than the Advance Party – will refer to the Committee on Freedom of Speech, which has recently issued its opinion. This Commission has proposed actual and substantial changes to the Basic Law § 100, including the fundamental principle of disclosure. However, the majority have noted that the Commission’s draft Constitutional Law and the two existing Constitutional Laws do not have the same wording. The majority therefore indicate that work is now in progress to follow up both a previous Storing Message, St.meld. No 32 for 1997-98, and its treatment in the context of Innst. S. No 21 for 1998-99. The majority refer to the notification, suspension and review of the freedom of expression Commission, and this is under further processing. There is therefore reason to believe that the majority will come back to this issue in connection with this work. Among other things, on this basis, the majority rejects the current proposals of Left-Leader Lars Sponheim to legislate the principle of publicity now. However, the members of the Progress Party, signed and Vidar Kleppe, have come to the conclusion that the principle of disclosure is of the kind that it deserves fundamental law, I take up our proposal on page 2 of the vote to approve Option 1. What is also important is that the second subparagraph of option 1 concerning the restrictions applicable to the principle of public access states: "It may be laid down by law in this Court for reasons of privacy and other overriding reasons." We feel this way – and we have a certain suspicion – that there is a tendency for public administration to use exemptions from the Public Service Act more for reasons of convenience than for serious reasons. It may seem that in some agencies it is better to say no to the public, because then we save ourselves from indiscriminate journalists and questions from ordinary citizens – it is much easier to work when the public does not know what we are doing. We feel in various cases and in relation to the fact that there is no one in control of compliance with the disclosure law – it is one of the laws that no supervisory body has been set up to ensure compliance – that there is a need for tightening up. Once the Freedom of Speech Commission has already given its opinion and has proposed that the fundamental law of the principle of disclosure should be implemented, we in the Progress Party do not think that the difference between the present proposal option 1 and the proposed Constitutional Law of the Committee on Freedom of Opinion is so great that we have to wait a further four years for the necessary fundamental law to establish the principle of disclosure. I recommend the representatives of the Progress Party to vote in favour of our proposal, and I hope that perhaps some others in the Chamber, through an independent single representative assessment of this draft constitution, will come to the conclusion that saying yes to legislating the principle of publicity would be more in accordance with their own personal and independent conscience than the party programme, if any.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e898	Sir. Mr Hagen, on behalf of the Committee, has drawn up the proposal he referred from the Court of First Instance. Sir. Hagen also took up the suggestion he referred to, which is included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e901	The only news of the constitutional proposals under consideration today is that it is a majority who are already signaling that they are positive in reconsidering constitutional proposals on the principle of disclosure, but the majority will await the consideration of the position of the European Commission on the freedom of expression in this respect. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, emphasis on an ever-increasing complexity in society and the growth of public administration as a reason for the constitutionality of the principle of public disclosure. The majority of the Committee endorses such an approach in order to establish a fundamental principle and value in modern democracy. Its purpose is, among other things: to facilitate a ‘public dialogue open and informed’ by requiring transparency in matters which may be of little convenience to the authorities. For my part, I have little faith in the views of the proposer and the case rapporteur that fundamental law-making will strengthen the practice of the existing public law in terms of interpretation and will and ability to comply with the law. The government should ensure that the administration practices more publicity, and no more secrecy, in line with the applicable law. It is little credible and quite unthinkable that the pontificate representative Sponheim promoted the Constitutional Law of the Stortinge on Publicity, when the government council Sponheim does not practice or comply with its own principles of democracy. If the law is too poorly or legally unclear, the Government may propose to improve the law of the day. A bad law doesn't get better if it gets grounded. I would also like to warn against such an approach to a new constitution. We have several important laws that do not work well enough. The foundation law is not the answer to this. I do not ignore the fact that Sponheim also agrees with me after attending adult training in the Governmental Quarter in recent years. Establishing a constitutional public domain in the administration is primarily about giving constitutional foundations to a democratic principle. It is important to make certain derogations where, in particular, overriding reasons make this necessary. That is also the concern of the Committee on Freedom of Speech. However, these exceptions should not be so extensive as to close the opportunities for a more open society. I am convinced that the mariners would agree with us in such a fundamental law. It is easy to read from the Basic Law's intentions that the Owners wanted political processes to take place for the open stage. The principle of public disclosure was first proposed in 1845. As we know, the law was passed in 1970. With the positive attitude taken by the majority of committees in this setting, it should not take long before a fundamental law can become a reality. This means that proposals based on the recommendations of the European Commission on Freedom of Speech must be promoted in this context, and preferably before the summer. And the parties at Stortinget should therefore, in the near future, discuss how we can ensure a new constitution that can bring together a majority and ensure that it is promoted in this process. The Government should also make its plans to deal with the suspension of the freedom of expression Commission known as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e918	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e921	The representative Husøy had some – I would like to allow myself to use the word – drag park for the proposer, Lars Sponheim, who I will not comment on in this reply, but come back to at a later stage. What I want to concentrate on this line is related to the question of how far the Workers' Party has gone in assessing whether it would agree to base the principle of disclosure. There were clearly positive tones in relation to that question in the statements by Mr Husøy. But then the Committee on the Rules of Procedure's investigation is used as a reason for not voting for the proposal as it stands today. What is also said is that it is positive to consider the proposal made by the Freedom of Speech Commission. The proposal here to legislate on the principle of disclosure has been known for three years. It was submitted in the prescribed way, we have had the opportunity to assess it before a elections, etc., and my question to the representative Husøy is therefore: Is the Labour Party ready today to say that one will go in to legislate the principle of disclosure at least in accordance with what is present in today's proposal, so that the only reason not to vote for it today is that one will take it next time, when a really more far-reaching proposal comes up for consideration on the basis of the reasonable handling of the Court's inquiry?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e930	I have applied a practice that is based on what I mean, and I mean what I say. I think it was also clear in this context, in addition to what is said in the vote, and that is where the Labour Party is today, we will review it again. We see things that make us positive about it, but we want more possibilities in terms of what we will eventually end up with, and I don't want to pre-shoot the Workers' Party's treatment of this. However, I hope that both the representative Hove and others will notice that we have a positive attitude towards a constitutional change. Unlike many other parties here on Stortinget, the Labour Party has a very high threshold to change the Constitution, but we see reasons to consider it in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e937	The representative, Mr. Husøy's contribution, was uplifting in the sense that it seemed to give the impression that there was now a majority to establish the principle of public disclosure. In that way, this answer to the line became a downward move. Now she came up with the formulations that stand in the setting, and that they are willing to assess it. It was said that Sponheim, who is now the Council of State, should have made sure that it was practiced public. He did. He contributed to the promotion of legislative proposals that had been under labor party government for several years, and he has contributed to a completely different degree of transparency and transparency in the department than before. But then, too, much of the government is going on at regional and local level, and by the type of country left thinks it is, one does not have the type of instruction right in municipalities and is supplementary to what is given by law. So to the question, which is based on what was said that one did not believe that the fundamental law of the principle of disclosure would benefit: does the representative Husøy disagree with a unanimous freedom of expression commission, which states that this principle is important in the Constitution because in the public administration there is no administrative culture that takes the principle of transparency seriously? Just anchoring this in the Constitution will form the basis for an offensive on these issues locally and centrally.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e946	If it helps on Kvassheim's possibilities for a trip up after this descent, I can allow myself to say that it was quite correctly observed by the representative that I expressed my personal position, which is a little more positive than what is in the setting. But as the parliamentary leader, he probably also has the sense that this is not the way to advance the Party's treatment. With regard to Sponheim's activities in the Government, I don't think there have been convincing activities to gain more transparency in government, and I want to point out in particular the principle of more publicity. In particular, I expected politicians who often take it up had tried to keep it stronger. And then I also want to say in relation to other things that the representative was in the line, that what we put the most emphasis on in the approach to going into or assessing a fundamental law of this principle, is that we've got a more complicated society, and that administration has increased dramatically over the last decades. I mean, and I think that I would also mean it after we've dealt with the Commission's investigation of freedom of speech, that a bad law doesn't get better if we legislate it. What's the challenge for all of us is to have the best law possible, and we should probably also consider how to verify that the law we actually have is being complied with.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e958	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e962	We are now discussing an important and very central proposal from the representative Lars Sponheim relating to the principle of publicity, where Sponheim wants to have this principle enshrined in the Constitution. The majority of the establishment, including: The Christian People's Party is in, of course, committed to ensuring publicity in the administration, because we realize that the need for administrative control is present. This proposal is about legislating the right of public access now, despite the fact that the mandate of the Committee on the Freedom of Speech is included as part of the work, and that the proposer can also see that there are good reasons to await the work of the Commission before it is finally promoted. This is in accordance with the wishes of the Christian People's Party in the matter, and which we make known in a majority opinion, where we find that the Committee on Freedom of Speech has now issued its inquiry, which proposes extensive amendments to the Constitution § 100, including among others. to have the principle of disclosure laid down in the basic law. However, the majority have noticed that the draft Constitution of the representative Sponheim does not have the same wording as the Commission's draft Constitutional Law on Freedom of Speech. The majority also see the need for control as an increasing challenge in the societal debate. The Commission points to a society with growth in general government, a more complex society, and from this it sees the need for any fundamental law of public interest as a fundamental value in this way. I agree with the representative Husøy's idea that the Government will return to Stortinget as soon as possible – if possible already in the spring – with proposals that have been co-ordinated with proposals from the Committee on the Freedom of Speech on public disclosure in the administration. In spite of this, the Christian People's Party at this time recommends that the constitution be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e971	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e974	Since this is a constitutional proposal that Stortinget is going to deal with, I allow myself to take a line also on a representative from a party that I would not otherwise do in relation to. My question to the representative Holten is the same as what was raised against the representative Husøy. The majority of the Committee refers to the Freedom of Speech Commission and will consider the fundamental law-making of the principle of publicity in the context of the proposals of the Freedom of Speech Commission. I guess that's good. It's actually a reasoning you can understand. But at the same time, we are in the situation that there is a draft constitution that has been able to assess and decide. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities has put forward a number of proposals. The question is: will you go beyond the proposal here? Or do you want to go in at all to get the principle of disclosure laid down in the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e981	It is clear that this is an important matter. It is also central to the Christian People's Party to organise a good and safe treatment of the public in government. However, we have noticed, as I was also in my post, that there is a difference between the proposal presented by the representative Sponheim and what is available as a result of the work of the Freedom of Speech Commission. It is this difference that we now want further work to be done in the Government and through the hearing bodies that will work on the matter. When the representative Hove now says that we have already had this constitutional proposal from Lars Sponheim for a long time, that is correct. But when we find that there is a difference between conclusions and proposals, we believe that this matter should be given so much importance that we now get these proposals put together, especially since the representative Sponheim is also not removed from the same idea.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e990	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e993	The principle of disclosure should have a strong position in our society. Transparency, as the principle of disclosure in the Public Service Act states, and transparency in the political decision-making system and in the public bodies is an important part of our democratic system. It is important because of the participation, influence and control of the administration and with the political bodies. The proposal put forward by Lars Sponheim in the previous period is, to the most extent, a proposal he made as party leader in the Left. It is therefore clearly the Left's proposal and an important element of the Left's agenda for strengthening and developing democracy. In the view of the Left, it is important to establish the principle, because it deserves place in the Constitution as part of the fundamentals of our democratic governance system. In this context, the Left ends up with the proposal – both by individual representatives, based on their own convictions, and by the Left as a group on the Stortinget, to refer to some of Hagen’s representatives at the end of their speech. In addition to the fact that the fundamental principle of disclosure is correct because, as a fundamental part of our democratic governance system, it deserves fundamental law-making, there is no doubt that it will have an impact on the practical application of the principle of disclosure in practice. In other words, legislating the principle of disclosure would help to underline the general rule of the Public disclosure law and strengthen it at the expense of the exemption rules allowing for the exemption of documents from disclosure. This will have meaning in relation to the more legal understanding of the disclosure law, but it will also have value because it will help mark the Storting's position that the disclosure law should be complied with according to its intention. There is no doubt that a principle is fundamental to the understanding of the rules in the same area in practice. I must therefore say that I was very surprised by the approach of the representative Husøy to this justification in the proposal, as it was submitted in 1996. You might say that behind this idea is an element that you might call distrust to those who are going to practice and comply with the law. Now leave it, because it's essentially not the point. There will be tensions in any system between, on the one hand, compliance with the public and, on the other hand, the need for certain exceptions. In this voltage field, it will undoubtedly be of great value that the principle is constitutional. At least I can assure you that when the Left today is in favour of constitutionalization and voting for it, it is not in distrust of our government councils – it is so definitely not! Well, we think that this government is going to have a long life, but it has after all not got any basic protection that will make us sure that it is this government that is going to continue to practise the public law forever. There is no doubt, as the representative of Kvassheim has already been involved, that this government has ensured that the principle of disclosure is observed and practised in a much better way than in the past – let's say. In fact, the main point in the issue of the extent to which a fundamental law is relevant to the practice of the law is not a question of good or bad law. The point is that this will in any case have meaning, regardless of how the law is actually designed. One issue that I think deserves particular attention in this regard is the question of what is commonly called foreign publicity, i.e. publicity for documents related to Norway's relationship with foreign countries and international organisations. There is no doubt that the fundamental principle of disclosure will give the principle greater weight and will be a fully relevant argument insofar as Norway goes somewhat further in public for documents than other countries and organisations would have to. This would allow us to argue that the principle of disclosure is part of the Norwegian constitution — a part of the Norwegian constitution — which will undoubtedly be a weighty argument and which will be understood by other countries and organisations. When it comes to trying to promote greater publicity, including on issues of foreign policy — perhaps not least there — it will be important to have a fundamental law establishing the principle. Sweden has had the principle of public access to the Constitution for a very long time, well back to the late 1700s, when the principle was enshrined in the Constitution. First, it shows that it may be both right and reasonable to legislate on this principle – and it might be in accordance with the spirit of the founding fathers, as the representative Husøy correctly pointed out. Nor do I think there can be any doubt that the fact that Sweden had a fundamental principle of publicity was of clear importance to the country in the negotiations on EU membership and on Sweden’s access to public information on issues related to the EU. I might go so far as to say that, after all, there has been some positive developments in the principle of public disclosure within the EU, it may not at all be the result of the introduction of a Member State that has had this principle enshrined in the Constitution. In this sense, I believe that it can be said that a fundamental law of principle is very clearly important, not least in relation to foreign states. The freedom of expression Commission has given its opinion after this proposal was put forward – which is natural. I have to say that it is gratifying for the Left to register the clear agreement that the Committee on Freedom of Speech gives to the proposal from the Left. Because that is clearly what is the reality of the position of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. I believe that this draft constitution has already had a clear, positive significance in many ways, and that it has probably been involved and influenced the Committee on Freedom of Speech. And it's clear that it's involved in influencing the games on the Stortinget then. It's a pleasure. It is in itself understandable to argue that when it is under treatment, the actual constitutional changes could be made at a later stage. If it had therefore been an overall committee that said that we are in favour of this, we are in agreement with this, but we are taking the technical side of the next parliamentary term, yes, there would have been an end to this debate that we could agree on. I feel as if Odd Holten, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, almost gave his consent to this, and that Inger Lise Huiseøy personally does so, but that at that point she cannot respond on behalf of the Workers' Party. That's all right. It might be interesting to challenge those parties that have not yet spoken, to say how they want to deal with that question. In other words, have you taken a stand and are you in favour of this, but are you just waiting for the Constitutional Amendment for technical reasons, or are you still in the situation of assessing this? Finally, I will be allowed to pay tribute to the Progress Party, which has chosen to promote the proposal of the Committee, and to the positive attitude they have shown on this issue in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e1019	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e1022	Not agreeing to a constitution proposal is not just a technical matter, but a proper debate based on the position of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. When I listen to the representative Hove, it sounds like today's constitution prohibits publicity, and that's not the situation. It's actually the fact that today's constitution is pretty good and quite clear on what is the intention in terms of publicity and openness about political processes, although I have the sense that it can be said even clearer, which I think is in place in a modern constitution. I also want to ask the representative Hove about the approach to change the Constitution on this point, because, as I said, I believe that there are already good intentions on this in the Constitution. I can't see any examples, either in Norway or in other countries, that having a law that you want to be better practised makes it right and necessary to legislate the law in order to get it done. That there's going to be some direct connection here, I'm totally incomprehensible. I want to mention, with all due respect for the Constitution, that there have been quite a number of unemployed people in this country who have not felt that there has been any intention of legislating a right that has not been practiced, by the fact that thousands of people have been unemployed for many years. So give me one example of the fact that legislating a law has strengthened it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e1031	When it comes to the question of the need for a debate on this matter, the representative, Mr Husøy, may be heard as if that debate were about to take place after the opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities had been put to the vote. Well, a debate on the concrete proposal that they have put forward can of course be said that it would be natural to start then. However, a debate on the underlying and decisive issue, namely the question of legislating the principle of disclosure, has had every reason to decide, at least from the end of September 1996, when the Left presented its draft constitution. In addition, this issue has been addressed by us in a number of contexts in the public debate, including here in the United Kingdom in connection with the communication of the Public Health Act. The basic question has been given every opportunity to assess and conclude. And that's what we've challenged. Of course, the Constitution does not prohibit disclosure. Nor has it been my intention to suggest anything near it. But I think that the representative Husøy goes very far when she gives the impression that there are other provisions in the law that are almost as good as the proposal that we have here. I will certainly reject that. And then to the relationship between law and constitution. We have a number of examples that promise is also interpreted on the basis of constitutional provisions. To mention one example: Expropriation compensation and the relationship with the Constitution § 105 have clearly been connected. The provisions of Section 100 of the Basic Law on freedom of expression and provisions which have intervened in it have also been consistent.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e1040	First, a reply to the representative, Mr Hove, who will have reactions from the parties on the Freedom of Speech Commission. The right shall be associated with the majority, having regard to its reference. The debate that will follow the recommendations of the Committee on Freedom of Speech shall be on the right, and we shall take a stand on any support or not when that debate is to be summarised on an independent basis. On the other hand, on a general basis, the Right believes that not everything needs to be entered in the Constitution. Principles can stand quite steady yet, and much can be preserved without a single letter of the Constitution. That's the way the principle of disclosure is at present, as we assess it, and that's the way it was with the constitution proposed by the representative Sponheim on municipal autonomy, which we discussed in April, and the constitution proposed by three central party representatives on local self-government, which we also discussed in April. I actually asked for the floor to ask a question to the representative of Hove. He referred to Sweden, which had had the principle of public disclosure constitutionally since the 1700s. And then I have to ask the representative Hove if he can describe more specifically what it has contributed to – whether Swedish democracy should be better or have evolved in a more positive direction than Norwegian democracy, thanks to a fundamental law celebration from the 1700s.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e1047	I think I'll start with the question that came at the end. I don't think there is any doubt that the Swedish principle of freedom of printing, of which this principle of disclosure is part, and which has been enshrined in the Constitution since the late 1700s, has had a very clear significance for the transparency of Swedish society. And there is no doubt that when Denmark and Norway started drafting public law in the second half of this century, the public law in Sweden was not least a model for ours. The Swedish principle has therefore had a very clear impact on the situation in Sweden and on the transparency of Swedish society, and it also had a significant impact on the fact that it was constitutional, as Sweden entered into discussions with the EU in terms of the degree of transparency that it could have. A Swedish professor very clearly stresses in an article from 1970 how the Swedish principle of publicity makes it possible to have a completely different open debate in Sweden on many things than at least what you had in Norway at the time. And I think the description would be partly correct also in relation to today. We're told that the Right is not ready to take any position yet. It might not be so surprising from the Right. Of course, not everything needs to be written into the Constitution; of course, there are principles that work without it. It is equally obvious, as the Left believes, that both the principle of disclosure and the local principle of self-government deserve the strengthening that a fundamental law would provide.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e1059	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e1062	Transparency is a central right in an open, democratic society. The principle of publicity is an important element of our democracy. This is the background for the fact that for many years, the Left has had a strong commitment, locally and centrally, to greater transparency in administration. More than 100 municipalities and county municipalities have been initiated to help change practices and improve procedures at this point. After the government change, a follow-up to this commitment followed in a short period of six months to promote the notification of changes to the Public Service Act which had been with the Workers' Party for several years without being promoted by the Storting, despite the fact that the repeated request had been made. And after the government change, one has followed with intensified procedures in a number of departments to ensure greater transparency and to ensure a better practice of the provision of more publicity. In addition, the Left on the Stortinget has proposed that the principle of public disclosure should be included also with regard to the bodies of Stortinge, and I welcome a response from the Storinget on that proposal. That's the same commitment left has had for several years, which was the background for Lars Sponheim promoting the Constitution that we have today to deal with. This is well-founded, and it will mean a great deal to the understanding of the principle of publicity and the practice of administration locally and centrally. And as Harald Hove pointed out strongly in his statement, fundamental law-making will also be an important reference and an important starting point for international work and negotiations. And we know that it can be a strong pressure from others to get secrets in areas where Norway could think of transparency. The rationale for legislative adoption has been strengthened since this proposal was promoted in 1996, including: through the proposal made by the Committee on Freedom of Speech and the reasons given therein. The proposal by the Committee on Freedom of Speech is remarkably similar to that promoted by Lars Sponheim in 1996. And it's not that this debate can start now. It has gone on for a long time, including: on the basis of the commitment of the Left and the Sponheim Constitutional Law, but also because there are other actors, including in the press, who has been doing this for a long time. So it surprises me that some parties seem to perceive it as there is a new challenge, a new problem, they are faced with now, and have to take a stand for it. The vote will take place at 6.30 p.m. The other batches justify the fact that the suspension of the freedom of expression Commission is now under consideration and is to be held for consultation. And I see, like Harald Hove, arguments for postponement. On the other hand, we in the Left think it is so crucial that we get on the offensive, that we think it is right to make decisions now. And I had expected more people in any case to be flagged in this area when, in the ongoing political debate, almost daily, we see the desire for new arrangements, new appropriations, new proposals, new laws, new provisions. However, in this area, where there has been a debate for several years, one is still not prepared to conclude on the main principle, and is pushing ahead with the treatment that should be of this in the wake of the suspension of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. We got the Public Relations Act in 1970. The principle of greater publicity was laid down in 1982 and subsequently reinforced in 1993. Now is the time to move on with this offensive and get the principle of disclosure into the Constitution. It is time to follow Sweden's example in this area as well. I think there is reason to commend the Advancement Party, not only because they have come to the right conclusion, but also because they think this is so important that one should conclude now and not push it forward three-four years.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e1079	I am going to be a driver's card and just say the following: this is a constitutional proposal that SV has a great sense of, and our group supports the intentions of the proposal that has been tabled. We believe, however, that when it comes to a constitutional change on this point, as you can read from what a large majority says in the committee position, it is reasonable to make such a constitutional change as it should be and not make a temporary change that will last for four years, and then, if necessary, to adopt a final change. That's not how you treat the Constitution, in our opinion. Now the Freedom of Speech Commission has made a suggestion at this point, but it is not, in its wording, similar to what Lars Sponheim had in his time. That is why we want to consider a constitutional change in the light of what has been achieved by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, and any other proposals, in a broader context.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e1088	I had asked for the word before the representative Hove challenged parties that had not yet had the word, just so it was said. I can join in all that Kristin Halvorsen now said, because the Center Party has the same attitude. It's a very important principle that's been addressed today, and this important principle was in its time the government Borten put in place by getting the Public Relations Act in 1970. But now that we know that we have the position of the Freedom of Speech Commission, and that there are many important points of view and arguments that should be balanced against the Constitutional proposal that Sponheim has promoted, I can't believe that the representative Hove is very surprised that we also join the majority, because Hove is probably concerned about processes from his civil situation and that all elements should be fully illuminated to get the best legal text possible. I can promise that the Center Party will contribute actively both in government and in general as this process is now underway in this area. Personally, I would like to say here from the pulpit today that if I am at Stortinget when the matter comes up next time, I will be in favour of this, but I have respect for the large and wide investigation that is available, and will take time to listen to what is said, and we may be able to get an even better wording. Having said that, I would like to end by pointing out that I have learned that, in many contexts, we currently have a loyalty requirement in public administration that begins to limit the existence of speech impairment in some public employees, and I ask myself, how does this affect the total freedom of expression and the public? These are also aspects that I think must weigh heavily and be in the whole picture. I am aware that in some environments in the various administrative bodies there is some frustration because one is not allowed to say that one believes, but we have to get back to that in a different context. I think it's a very important principle that's been taken up here, and if we hadn't had the position of the Freedom of Speech Commission lying down, at least I would have agreed to the proposal, but I'll wait for it for that reason.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e1099	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see next page]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e1112	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e1119	During the debate, Carl has. I. Mr Hagen made the following proposal on behalf of the Progress Party: ‘Proposal 9 of Document No 12 to new Section 100(a) of the Basic Law option 1 – acceptable.’ [[1995-1996]] The President expects us to be able to vote in the usual way, i.e. by using the voting system, and it will be replaced by the vote and the proposal of the Progress Party. – No objections have been raised, and this is what will be done. But before we go to this vote, the President will vote on the proposal as Mr. Mr Hagen has formulated the following statement on behalf of the Committee: ‘Proposal 9 of Document No 12 to new Section 100(a) of the Basic Law option 2 – not acceptable.’ [[1995-96]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e1159	The proposal for a new § 110d of the Constitution, designed in three alternatives, is that the return and use of the funds of the Swedish Social Security Fund and the Petroleum Fund should be earmarked for the pension payments of the people's pension fund. The reasons for the proposal include, inter alia: that the Social Security Fund and the Petroleum Fund must be considered as security for the future pension obligations laid down in the social security system. The proposer wishes to have a fundamental law to ensure that the long-term hedge of pension obligations by the funds is of continuing credibility. I think everyone agrees that it is important that the financing of future social security benefits is both safe and long-term. But in my view, there does not have to be any contradiction between this and building up funds in view of future challenges and obligations without necessarily legislating returns and use. It is important to respect the obligations of the country and the rights of its inhabitants, and accrued-to-date pension rights are already protected from interference by the legislators under the Basic Law, Section 97, which provides that no law can be retroactively enforced. The majority of the Committee considers that this fundamental law protection should be sufficient to protect acquired pension rights. I would also like to point out that there has been an investigation on the funding of popular security. The majority of the Committee considers that it is not in a position to support the proposal put forward and that the Stortinget should take the following decisions: ‘Proposal 10 of Document No 12 to new § 110d of the Basic Law – not acceptable.’ [[1995-1996]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e1177	I will be allowed to take up the proposals of the Progress Party, refer to our comments in the position and perhaps make a special call to other raisers who in the public debate often point out that the Petroleum Fund is there to secure future pension obligations – some have also stated that the Swedish Social Security Fund is there to ensure future pension obligations. I allow myself to recommend the representatives to stop such misrepresentation as there is no link between the pension obligations of the people's pension fund and the Swedish Social Security Fund or the Petroleum Fund. When one then actively refuses to make such a connection, I think the representatives should at least show respect for their own position that they refrain from making such false claims in the public debate. However, the Progress Party is still of the opinion that there is an overall need to provide funding for popular protection, and that there is a starting point for the adoption of existing constitutional proposals. With regard to the protection of fundamental law, which was the subject of the rapporteur, legal acts and judgments show that there is a great deal of doubt about future obligations. On the contrary, the Supreme Court has pointed out the great freedom of the Storting at all times to weigh the different purposes against each other.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e1184	Carl I. Hagen has taken up the suggestion he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below.]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e1194	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e1200	During the debate, Mr Hagen, on behalf of the Progress Party, raised the following proposal: ‘Proposal 10 of Document No 12 to new § 110d of the Basic Law option 1 – acceptable.’ [[1995-1996]] The President again expects that we can vote in the usual way using the wetting plant, and that there will be an alternative between the vote and the proposal from Mr. Hagen. – No objections have been raised, and this is what will be done.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e1231	The President assumes that the debate will be relatively short, but of course cannot give any guarantees!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e1237	Proposal No. 12 of Document No 12 for 1995-96 was promoted by Carl I. Hagen and is about securing constitutionally acquired social security rights in a new § 110e of the Constitution. The majority of the committee, the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, Right and SV, rejects the proposal, while the Advance Party promotes it. The present draft Constitution deals with an important issue. For natural reasons, most of us will eventually be concerned with our future pension conditions, and in this context it is not important to know whether we really get the pension we have been proposed, or whether the authorities can suddenly change the law and regulation to the detriment of the individual. At the same time, the legal situation has been rather unclear for a long time. Although many people have thought for the same time that the Constitution § 97 that no law should be applied retroactively provides the necessary basic legal protection for pension and social security rights, the case has not been made clear at all. When the present proposal was promoted in Stortinget, the legal situation was still somewhat more unclear than it is today. However, in the so-called Borthen case concerning the income testing of dependants' allowances, and in the Thunheim case concerning the adjustment of future points for miscarriage, two important plenary sentences were submitted to the Supreme Court. Both judgments state that social security rights are, in principle, protected by the Constitutional Act § 97, in the sense that the prohibition against the return of § 97 affects changes in the law that appear to be clearly unfair or unfair. Another issue is that the majority of the Supreme Court in both cases found that the contested changes were not clearly unfair or unfair. The majority in the Committee therefore agree that the proposal to introduce a new § 110e should not be accepted, while the members of the Progress Party support the proposal. I assume that the minority itself will justify their views and address the proposal. For its part, the majority stressed that, in its justification for the proposal, the proposer largely took on the basis of the time when the legal situation was unclear as far as the scope of Paragraph 97 of the Basic Law was concerned. Now, as I said a little while ago, the Supreme Court in two plenary judgments has stated that § 97 applies also in the case of pension and social security rights. The majority therefore believe that the proposer has already received its main intention of responding to the proposal through the clarification of the legal status resulting from the Supreme Court rulings. I have noticed that the minority in the vote believes that the constitutional protection provided by the Supreme Court does not go far enough, and that the present proposal should therefore be adopted, which, in the opinion of the minority, constitutes a strengthening of the constitutional protection. It is not difficult to have sympathy for such an attitude, and it would have been nice if it had been so simple. The minority seems to forget that a new section 110(e) also needs to be interpreted in order to determine how far it goes. There is also reason to stress that several uncertainties relate to the formulation of ‘processed’ social rights and how this formulation is understood. In my opinion, therefore, there are several reasons why doubts about the possible adoption of the present proposal in practice would lead to some real strengthening of the basic legislation on pension and social security benefits. There may also be grounds for stressing that it is primarily up to the Storting itself to decide to what extent the rights of insured persons are to be guaranteed in addition to the protection provided by the interpretation of Section 97 of the Supreme Court. That challenge — yes, many would believe that the obligation — can never run away from the Storting, regardless of formal constitutional protection. In this context, I point out that the Supreme Court also attached great importance to ensuring the Storting's financial autonomy so that the need for re-priorities, including within the social security system, was met. The fact that it can be mentioned here from someone that Storting's management needs have been overemphasized is thus his case, but the intentions of the proposaler's proposal have already been established in the applicable section 97. I note that both the majority and the minority in the Committee seem to agree on this. In addition, I would like to draw attention to the fact that if the proposal for a new § 110e of the Constitution is adopted, the new issues relating in particular to the Constitution § 75a and d and the two judgments of the Supreme Court arise. Of course, for those who are or are going to become pensioners in some form, it is important to know that our pension and social security rights are constitutionally guaranteed. It is they, it has the Supreme Court fixed, and the Storting will today further confirm that recognition. But what is even more important to know, if possible, is whether the Storting ensures that there are funds to pay the pensions and social security benefits. This can only be done by pursuing an economic policy that is long-term enough. The representative Hagen was involved in the previous post, and I'm not going any further with it, but there's the challenge to a greater extent than with the Constitution. I refer to the setting behind which the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right and the SV, recommend the Right representatives and the Stortinget to vote in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e1271	I will be allowed to address the proposal in Innst. S. No 25) on the proposal 12 of document No. 12 for 1995-96. It is true, as the rapporteur claims, that the confusion that prevailed at the time the proposal was submitted has been replaced by far, far greater clarity. When it was submitted, the Government stated in principle that there was no constitutional protection for social security rights, and that it was free to change the rules and provisions of the law at any time in the Grand Duchy – even in disfavor of the pensioners, who, through a long life, had prided themselves on what was laid down in the legislation at that time. I am pleased that the Supreme Court concluded that there is some kind of constitutional protection against what the case-rapporteur called unreasonable changes. But then you're right about discretion, political judgment, about what's unreasonable, and then you can quickly get into a different situation if the majority of the population thinks that it's not unreasonable if pensioners' pensions are downgraded, when there might be other things in society that also have to endure tightening. I would argue that pensioners are in a special situation in that their ability to do something is very, very limited, while other professionals who may have a budget tightening have different arrangements and must be able to adapt much better than those who are too late to do anything. When we look at the sum of the Supreme Court rulings in the Borthen and Thunheim judgments, it is our opinion that the constitutional protection of acquired social security rights is not sufficiently protected after the Progress Party thinks they should respect them. Of course, as the rapporteur claims, any constitutional provision must be interpreted by the Supreme Court in a specific case, but that applies to all provisions. And at least I don't think anyone would be able to claim that the adoption of this draft constitution would in any way weaken constitutional protection. There is no current problem under any circumstances. It will at least count in an improved situation with regard to the constitutional protection of the acquired rights. So it goes in the direction we want. And we think it would be a further clarification that pensioners and those who are approaching that age should be able to have the security that a random majority in the Stortinget, as some in other contexts have called it, should not be able to reduce social security payments/pension payments, and that at least there should be the obstacle to an increase that if you want to do something, there is a delay procedure by going the path of constitutional change in order to reduce social security payments. But I also refer to the case rapporteur, who just emphasised that the Stortinget had to have the necessary freedom of action, and that means that a simple majority should have the necessary freedom of action. The Progress Party is of the opinion that a simple majority of the Grand Duchy should not have the freedom of action and thus the possibility for the majority to have the possibility of making any changes in pension and social security payments.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e1287	Sir. Hagen has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e1290	Since the Left is not represented in the Control Committee, I would just like to briefly say that in terms of the conclusion, we agree with the majority. I would like to emphasise that there is a central point here that the benefits of popular interest, at least as far as pension benefits are concerned, have a constitutional protection, and that is what is stated in the two judgments of the Supreme Court. We state very clearly that it is gratifying that the Supreme Court has established it, and I would, for my part at least, clearly stress that the constitutional protection should go at least as far as the Supreme Court laid down in the judgments in question. Otherwise, I would just like to say, as a small comment on some of what the representative Hagen said, that the unfairness assessment to be carried out, that is, whether a change would be unfair to the insured, is not only a political issue that the Stortinget decides; it is, too, but it is also a legal issue that the Supreme Court will consider.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e1299	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below.]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e1307	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e1314	During the debate, Mr Hagen raised the proposal of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Proposal 12 of Document No 12 to new Section 110 (e) of the Basic Law – accepted.’ [[1995-1996]] The President will propose that we vote in the same way as before today, that is, by means of the voting system, and that there should be an alternative vote between the suspension and the proposal of the Progress Party. – No objections have been raised, and this is what will be done.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-23.ana.ud2402e1336	Storting continues its treatment of today's map at 1 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
