ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03-2.ana.ud1024e38	Today's debate, on the part of the Labour Party, has largely focused on the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party's strong governance and glittering telecommunications policy – a telecommunications policy that is apparently radically different from, for example, one. The centre party has its telecommunications policy. In addition, the Workers' Party has concentrated on adding positively incorrect opinions to the Centre Party. Schjøtt-Pedersen has claimed that the centre party is against universal service obligations, against telecommunications regulation and against the maximum price regime. I quoted in my article before today from the setting, quote that shows that Schjøtt-Pedersen's claims are incorrect. During the day it looks as if the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen has perceived that he might have to change some of his claims. In a press release by Schjøtt-Pedersen, the headline is ‘Unsurprisingly, Sp and KrF are not in favour of universal service and minimum prices’. Finally, the Labour Party has begun to make claims that are at least partly correct. It is quite right that the centre part has not entered the minimum price, as stated in the title of the press release. So the working party, and especially Schjøtt-Pedersen, has hit half of the headline, and I have to congratulate myself on a proper understanding – at least by half. I take it, of course, that Schjøtt-Pedersen knows what he himself writes in his press releases, and I expect that the press black, as it is called, will not be released in the press releases. But what surprises me is that Schjøtt-Pedersen is so surprised that the Center Party and the Christian People's Party are not in favour of the mini-priests. And then I said, "What's so surprising about this?" And by the way, does the Labour Party go in for minimum prices, so one can get the impression in the headline of the press release that has been sent out?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03-2.ana.ud1024e45	With a parliamentary use of words, I think I will express myself in such a way that the misinformation does not become more true if it is repeated many times. The representative, Ola Røtweg, expressed that only the Working Party and SV enter high-speed networks for all users. The representative Gunn Olsen is amazed that the center will not instruct the government in a work that the government is already in the process of doing. And the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen said in his main post that the government parties will not have a maximum price, will not have a universal obligation, will not have forward-looking regulations. This, I think, is too much for people to believe in it, at least after this debate. And let me now say that the center parts will have the maximum price if and when necessary. We want universal service if and when necessary. And we want new and forward-looking regulations and even ask the Government to work towards future-oriented and flexible EEA legislation in this way. And we want a high-speed network for all the users already now. It is important to stress that we should not sit and wait until a situation of under-covering arises. We're going to be in the forefront, and we're asking the government to be in the forefront, so that the development plans are kept in line with the requirement that will be imposed in the future. So at the end of this press release that it was just referred to. It is worth a study in itself, including: because it is claimed that the centre parties, which have previously placed so much emphasis on societal governance, are now saying that the market itself is on a business-economic basis to ensure an equivalent telecommunications network. It's turning the whole problem upside down. What we think is that per cent. the current date appears that the market will meet the requirements we have. And that's really reason to enjoy. It is not the market that has the control, but the plans of the companies today ensure the satisfactory development of the offer. Finally, if the Workers' Party's transport fraction continues to communicate our positions to the public in such a way as we have experienced recently, it will have major consequences for our press coverage.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03-2.ana.ud1024e58	I have understood through this debate that representatives of the centre parties have an almost extreme need to distance themselves from what they have done in the committee position, and to make it appear that ‘estimating’ is to ‘approach’. I understand that need, because there are naturally relatively strong reactions to the fact that the centre parties have not done what was expected of them, namely to provide tools that could help us achieve the goals that we agree on. But in terms of the instruments used in the debate, and not least in the press debate in which you accuse others of using lies, etc., I think you're too good to get involved in that kind of debate technique. The core of this debate was a change of line after the intervention of the Council of State, where the Council of State correctly stated that the difference between the two proposals is that the proposal of the Workers' Party represents a reality position in which maximum price and universality are introduced, while the parties of the Government and the Right are in favour of assessing and possibly putting it into effect if they consider it necessary. In short, they want the targets, but they don't want to use them. And then there's a wise difference between doing something and thinking about it. The wall is not painted by that you think about whether it needs paint. The same parties, in particular in the debate but also in the suspension, pointed out that the EU and the EEA should be a barrier to the introduction of universal service obligations. Then I have to ask, as I asked in a previous post: Where does the EEA/EU legislation state that there is no high-speed universal service on telecommunications networks? We've already introduced universal service on ISDN. What is the principal difference between ISDN and the net at a slightly higher speed? The statements from these parties are all the more strange when central spokesmen from Telenor, after what I understand, meet, among other things. Representatives from the same parties have said that they can live well with the tools proposed by the Workers' Party and SV here. But the government parts and the right parts seem to be going too far. I understand that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left have difficulty in defending that they will not use the means necessary to achieve the objectives they themselves set, but you must not try to make it as if there is complete equality between the two proposals that have been put forward for voting today. If it were to be full equality, I would strongly ask the representatives of the same parties to vote in favour of the Labour Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03-2.ana.ud1024e74	I think it is quite alarming when the Workers' Party spokesperson, Schjøtt-Pedersen, is confronted with a senseless and – apologies for the expression – foolish press release, which hardly expresses what he really means, and then makes an intervention at the end of the debate without at all commenting on the evidence of injustice and confusion presented by Jorunn Ringstad. Because it cannot be – or may be – that the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen, on the same day and in the same debate, is able to both criticise the centre parties for rejecting maximum prices, and at the same time, in a press release, serves the almost comical distortion where he says that the centre parties go against ‘minimum’ prices. That Schjøtt-Pedersen, the spokesperson of the Workers' Party, does not at all affect this documentation on the deaf and the clothes that Jorunn Ringstad presented from the pulpit is quite perceptive. However, it is in line and in line with what Schjött-Pedersen has previously presented in this case, among other things. in the manufacture carried out in the newspaper Nordly last Monday, 31 May. We have experienced that representatives of the centre parties and the Right have found it necessary to go out with a reading column, and have had to put into practice what I would call an unparliamentary expression to find a striking description of the look-up that Nordlys made in this connection. I would just like to say in the end that I fully agree with the Right and the three centre parts end with in their reply to the post that was presented in the North Light, namely: ‘In the future, Schjøtt-Pedersen should confine himself to saying what he himself thinks, a task which in itself may be burdensome enough.’ And what Jorunn Ringstad presented instead, was another confirmation of the latter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03-2.ana.ud1024e88	The President will appeal to the representative for the use of several unparliamentary expressions. Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen has spoken twice in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03-2.ana.ud1024e93	I have just received something that is not a press release, but a press statement, sent from the Information Office of the Workers' Party, where you have been injured to use the word "minimum price" instead of the maximum price. It's a typo, and it's so obvious that I think it's pretty foolish to bring it into the debate. It's a pretty obvious thing. I assume that neither the representative Jakobsen nor the representative Ringstad sees all the press statements that had to go from the press office of the party concerned. But that's not the point. Where in this setting is it that the Centre Party enters in order to introduce universal service obligations? Where does it say that the centre party goes in order to introduce the maximum price? Where does it say that the Center Party is going in to change the regulatory regime? Where does it say that the Centre Party is going to take up the new generation of mobile phones, just as a majority in the Committee has said? Where does this say? And if it is that there is no difference between the proposal of the Workers' Party and the proposal of the Centre Parties and the Right, why in the world does the representative Jakobsen not vote for the proposal of the Workers' Party? He's very welcome!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03-2.ana.ud1024e100	The President would point out that the word foolishly is not a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03-2.ana.ud1024e103	That's probably right, but that's right.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03-2.ana.ud1024e108	Jorunn Ringstad has answered all the questions that Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen now raised. I would actually say that Jorunn Ringstad operated on the boundary of Stortingen's regulations because it was necessary to quote so much from the setting. And if Schjøtt-Pedersen had been present, and I think he was, and in addition had heard what was said by the representative Ringstad in her main post and in later posts and in the line change afterwards, he had received a complete answer to all the questions he was now traveling in a Polish way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03-2.ana.ud1024e113	Since reference is made to replying questions earlier today, I, the Council of State, will confirm that the Government will consider universal service obligations in the concession terms of public telecommunications network operators with significant market power if necessary. I remember what I said earlier today, that as the Council of State I read only one difference between the two submissions, and that is whether the Storting will oblige the Government to do this, or whether the Government does it as regulatory authority through the Ministry of Transport of its own free will. That is what the Government will do if the need is present.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03-2.ana.ud1024e121	Let me think a little bit about the debate methods. I am sitting here with the printing of a debate that we had three years ago about the abolition of exclusive rights in the telecommunications sector. Parliamentary leader of the Centerpartiet, Johan J. Jakobsen, also arrived late in the debate. He began with: ‘It has been quite pathetic at the end of this debate to hear...’. And now he comes in and says, "I think it's pretty eye-catching...". None of the times does he really touch the essence of the discussion, but uses methods where rhetoric is essential. And then he shows that others have put this in place, while he sails at all does not touch the nucleus of what is being discussed. It is a method of debate which is, of course, a little constructive, but which may work in such a way that you have tried to put things in place, and then you have not done it at all. It would have been much more interesting if the representative Johan J. Jakobsen had touched on the political developments in the Central Party in telecommunications policy, from having the word for three years ago and accusing everyone else in this Chamber of actually standing on the right side of politics and being market librarians and not willing to rule, until today he is trying to defend it that the Center Party now does not want to use the governance mechanisms. If he had reflected on why the Center Party had turned around, it would have been much more exciting to hear than that he only uses rhetoric and does not touch the content. The representative Jan Sahl talked a lot about the company's plans, which were now on the table, being the fuse. What company? Well, Telenor has certain investment plans that apply until tonight. Then we adopt a new company, which has no investment plans, which gets a completely different owner's seat, which is not a hundred percent state owned company, but is a merged company that is going to be privatized and that is going to put its strategy. In that company there are no development plans. Those plans are going to be made on a commercial basis, and then we say, let's make sure we get things in place in time. That's our job. Because we know that the company is going to operate on a commercial basis, and they are going to expand where they see that the business economy is profitable. They do that, and that's what Tormod Hermansen has said, which I've quoted several times. They're not going to be involved in district policy. Why on earth would they do that? They shall have private shareholders. They have to run pure business. That's why we say, well, then we're going to have to get district policy in place. I'd think it was the easiest thing for the Center Party to be in, and actually for the Christian People's Party as well. I'm more in doubt when it comes to the Left. So really we should have a solid majority for the Workers' Party and the SV propose tonight.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03-2.ana.ud1024e130	Johan J. Jakobsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03-2.ana.ud1024e133	There has been a lot of talk about governance in today's debate. Now I have the impression that the representative Myrvoll will also direct the debate. I think SV and Inge Myrvoll must find out that the other representatives in the room say what they think is necessary at all times for the development of the debate. I allow myself, when it is served what I would call injustices in a debate, to tell you about it at the end of the debate when this is presented in the way we have experienced here today. It is possible that SV and Inge Myrvoll do not like our form of debate, but it may well be that when it comes to the form of debate, Inge Myrvoll also has a lot to learn, if we should first go back in time, as I realized that Inge Myrvoll was very interested in his last post.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03-2.ana.ud1024e140	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. One, two, three. [[Votation, see below.]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03-2.ana.ud1024e154	Consent to amend the two Annexes to the EEA Agreement is supported by joint committees, both the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Energy and Environment Committee. The proposed changes aim to improve the energy efficiency of household appliances, in this mode refrigerators and freezers. Since so far no such energy use requirements have been imposed on white goods used in households, the proposals that are being made are both joyous and necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03-2.ana.ud1024e159	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3632]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03-2.ana.ud1024e167	We then go to voting in case No. 1-4.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03-2.ana.ud1024e174	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No I, by Mr Stensaker, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, from Inge Myrvoll on behalf of the Socialist Left Party This is the first time that we are voting on the proposal by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals to separate Telenor AS infrastructure networks from its own company’.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03-2.ana.ud1024e203	An alternative vote is held between the Committee's position and the proposal of the Socialist Left, which reads as follows: ‘1. Telenor’s network is separated and established in a state-owned network company. The majority asks the Government to come back with proposals for the implementation of such a distinction and the establishment of a State transmission system company.2. The decision asks the Government to come back with a proposal that the transmission company, referred to in paragraph 1, take over the other telecommunications networks owned by the State or by State-owned companies, with the exception of the Defence Network.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03-2.ana.ud1024e223	During the debate, Ellen Gjerpe Hansen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the Government to assist the Ministry of Industry in taking over the management of State shares in the merged company Telenor AS and Telia AB.’ The vote will be taken first on the vote and then on the proposal from the Party of Advancement and the Right. The Committee had ceased: The cancelation consents to: 1st@item: inlistbox Telenor AS and Telia AB are merged into a new company in accordance with the agreement. 2nd@item: inlistbox The Ministry of Transport is authorised to deposit the State’s shares in Telenor AS as the Norwegian State’s share of the share capital of the merged company of Telenor AS and Telia AB, corresponding to 40 pst. of the shares in the new company. 3rd@item: inlistbox The Ministry of Transport is authorised to sell shares in the new company so that the Norwegian State’s holding becomes 33,4 p.m.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03-2.ana.ud1024e257	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, on behalf of the Workers' Party and Socialist Left Party proposal No. 2, by Ellen Gjerpe Hansen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party and the Left Proposal No. 3, by Ellen Gjerpe Hansen on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03-2.ana.ud1024e270	President!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03-2.ana.ud1024e277	Ellen Gjerpe Hansen – for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03-2.ana.ud1024e280	It concerns proposal No. 3, from the Advancement Party and the Right. I note that there is no agreement here in the Chamber, but I have also noted that there have been some sympathy. On that basis, I would like to suggest that it be sent to the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03-2.ana.ud1024e285	Proposal No. 3 from the Party of Progress and the Right has been converted into a proposal for a transmission, which reads as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government assess the following six points and come back to Stortinget on its own initiative with a view to eliminating anti-competitive practices: 1st@item: inlistbox Telenor is the only company with terrestrial networks that has free right of way and thus has an important competitive advantage over other operators.2. Earth-based networks may be used by telecommunications operators other than the owners of the network. The same regime has not been proposed for mobile telephony.3. When digging ditches around the country, there are arrangements in place for Telenor to be notified and the company to be able to add its cables to costs much lower than it would cost if Telenor were to cover the full excavation costs. The same warning procedures do not benefit Telenor's competitors, and Telenor has such a great competitive advantage.4. Historical costs are used to calculate rentals of Telenor's networks. This is a network that has been mainly developed as the company had monopoly and could unhinderedly burden the customers with the costs. This has given Telenor a very favourable starting point and competitive advantage over its competitors. A pricing regime based on upgrade costs could lead to increased competition.5. [[387/90/EEA]] According to Directive ONP 1990 Framework Directive The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. Can the Progress Party accept such voting? No one has spoken against. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The proposal of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left, as well as the proposal of the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Centre Party and the Left, is an alternative. The proposal of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party reads: ‘The decision requests the Government to take account of: 1st@item: inlistbox All households and businesses throughout the country shall be provided with the possibility of connecting to a telecommunications infrastructure with a transmission capacity sufficient to make use of ever new possibilities for electronic communications at acceptable prices. The offer is being developed in line with the need and development of the network across the country.2. In order to ensure such accessibility, the Government is asked to introduce universal service obligations through the terms of the concession to operators of public telecommunications networks with significant market power. The government is asked to assess the detailed arrangements for such universal service obligations, including capacity, extension time and coverage. Measures to ensure delivery are also assessed by general telecommunications legislation.3. In this context, the government is also assumed to impose assumptions that ensure a relatively rapid expansion of capacity in accordance with point 1. Upgrading to broadband capacity in all parts of the country at acceptable prices must take place at a pace that allows users in the Norwegian market to be ahead of international developments. It must be an objective that users in the Norwegian market can use relevant services earlier than users in other countries. A continuous upgrade is required in line with technological developments.4. The provision of high-speed network connectivity is assumed to be provided at prices which are as equivalent as possible in all parts of the country. In order to achieve this, a maximum price regime for high-speed services is introduced.’;» The proposal from the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party and the Left reads: ‘The decision requests the Government to take account of: 1st@item: inlistbox All households and businesses shall be provided with the possibility of connecting to a telecommunications infrastructure with a transmission capacity sufficient to make use of ever new possibilities for electronic communications at acceptable prices. The offer is being developed in line with the need and development of the network across the country.2. In order to ensure that households and businesses throughout the country have good access to telecommunications infrastructure with sufficient transmission capacity to make use of ever-increasing communication opportunities, the Government is asked to assess universal service obligations in the concession terms of public telecommunications network operators with strong market power. 3rd@item: inlistbox Upgrading to broadband capacity in all parts of the country at acceptable prices must take place at a pace that allows users in the Norwegian market to be ahead of international developments. Norwegian users must be able to use new services early compared to users in other countries.4. The provision of high-speed network connectivity is presumed to be provided at prices which are as equivalent as possible in all parts of the country.’»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-03-2.ana.ud1024e381	There is no record.
