ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e50	The representative Fridtjof Frank Gundersen, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. The called alternates, for Rogaland County, Inger Eikesdal, and for Eastfold County, Morten Olsen, have taken their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e73	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2568]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e87	This additional promise is about the practical cross-border cooperation in the northern parts of Europe. The objective is to extend practical cooperation with Russia. This case is thus no malaproposal for the dramatic developments that we see in other parts of Europe, rather against an emphasis on the importance and continuation of practical cooperation, and that it is important to have a long perspective on what is happening. All lots in the Stortinget, except the Advance Party, join the submission to grant 100 million. extra to cooperation with Russia and the Baltic States. The Progress Party is opposed to allowing money to Russia. I am pleased that this is a rare sight among the major political parties in Europe. Of course, Russian powers have the primary responsibility to get out of the economic misery that the country is up to. But all of Europe, and indeed all of the world, has the benefit of Russia getting rid of the heaviest legacy of totalitarian times. Europe as a whole should be interested in a prosperous, democratic and stable Russia, which is a natural partner in cooperation with the rest of Europe. We should also be involved in this. Clearly, the Progress Party does not stress the Norwegian interest in securing nuclear installations in Russia and securing the sea areas in the north. If one said that this had been in clear Norwegian interest, one should naturally support a proposal like this. It is also produced in the comments of the Progress Party as if the humanitarian effort for Russia is pure food aid. This is only a small part of the truth. But luckily, the party is alone in saying that we shouldn't be responsible for how people in the neighboring country are doing. They say they can have as well as they have such a government. It is also appropriate not to pass the opinion of the Committee and submitted by the Government without any other comments, which are more for internal use in the Stortinget. Behind the decision that we are fortunately going to take today, against the voices of the Progress Party, we find a strange game, at worst a double game about the 1999 budget. The main claim in this context is not the Government, but the majority in the Stortinget, those who were behind the budgetary conciliation last fall – all except the SV and the Labour Party. The majority of them climb out of a budget pinch at, among other things. reducing the pledges to Russia and Eastern and Central Europe by 40 million. kr in relation to what the Government proposed. The working party said the pledges should be increased by 30 million. kr. The Government Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party reduced the permissions from 95.5 million. NOK, which the Government had proposed, to SEK 55 million. kr. By comparison, in 1998 271 million were granted. for the same purpose. In 1997, 428 million were used. kr. Even with a commitment mandate of 200 million. SEK in addition to the SEK 55 million. For 1999, this is a sub-budgeting when you look at the targets you have seen. The mandate will primarily be applicable to new actions for the next year. In 1999, the economic and social situation in North-West Russia appeared to be worse than for a long time, while, on the other hand, the prospects for new environmental measures could appear to be quite good. In the briefing on cooperation in the neighbourhood on 15 May 1998, the Minister for Foreign Affairs was very optimistic when he, among other things, said: «The nuclear safety agreement will trigger projects of between 200 million. and 250 million. D over 3-4 years of age and will be a model for cooperation with Russia in this field also in other countries.’» We hope this is now about to be filled. I understand that the government wanted to see the amount of unused money that would remain for 1998 and that could be transferred to 1999. However, a sharp decrease in the 1998 commitment, together with the prospect of a high level of activity, should mean that the unused amount was less than in previous years. The outlook for a less unused amount for 1999, while a major need seemed to emerge, was not expected to bring about such a dramatic reduction as was the result of the budgetary procedure. It was obvious that the budgetary decision was not in line with the objectives set in the Stortinget. Already in the context of the 1999 budget review, it was clear that reductions in the routes to Eastern and Central Europe would have a negative impact on the activity. And in a letter to the Committee attached to the Budget. S. No 3 for 1998-99, write to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, etc.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘However, in the case of 1999 in isolation, the project activity is clearly negatively affected by the reduction of the allocation to such a low level as is now proposed. In addition to the need to reject a number of project applications, other projects will have to reduce their support, or, alternatively, that more of the aid will not be paid until the year 2000.’» In this context, the Progress Party is holding a steady course. They were given a reduced license in 1999. They meant it, and will not increase the promise to Russia and the Baltic States today either. Right position at the other end of scale. They contributed to the strong decline in 1999, but now they seem to have been for an increase in the number of vows. Yes, now they're even notifying a concrete proposal for a further increase in the revision of the budget for this year. Had they intended to increase the vows in the fall, would they not have been in favour of a reduction – or was it, as we have been in the past, the three governmental parties that pushed forward the dramatic reduction in the vows? The answer is not very important. The important thing is that we have witnessed what is similar to a game about the state budget, where the budget decision was not meant to be serious. Then I've come to the new promise, which will have wide disintegration. When it comes to the use of the additional permissions, I look at the proposition and the previous debates, and join in what the Government has proposed here – as the Storing does, with the exception of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e127	It is true that the Progress Party has decided to vote against this motion for a resolution. As stated in the statement, it has its background in the fact that we see no real purpose in supporting an economic country as large as Russia – a country that has such great and natural assumptions to cope with its own economy. It's an old saying that distress teaches naked women to spin. The Russians themselves have made very little contribution to the management of nuclear waste and nuclear safety. They have repeatedly put bureaucratic obstacles in the way of Norwegian assistance in this area. They have failed to approve international treaties, which are precisely aimed at relieving these things. They still build precious warships and ships. They have not received any order from the system as regards the collection of taxes and duties. The distribution of income is insanely biased, it's actually worse than under Communist rule. Rich Russians waste money and invest huge amounts in European banks. There is no reason why Norway should provide financial assistance to a country that does not cross two sticks to solve these problems. This means, first of all, that the Russians are deprived of the last remaining sense of responsibility by the fact that Western countries have now injected almost unlimited funds — that in some way these countries are responsible for this, and then the Russians can use the small funds they otherwise have for more prestigious purposes. So I think it's Norwegian naivety that lies behind the proposal to increase this allocation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e136	I would like to begin with mainly by agreeing to the first part of the case-rapporteur, Blankenborg, in this case. When he comes to what he mentions as a game about the budget, however, I will take a sharp distance from both the concept and the description he gives. I'll get closer to that. However, I would like to refer to the debate we had in Stortinget on 10 March this year, in the light of the interpellation that was raised by Svein Ludvigsen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the humanitarian situation in North-West Russia. The inter-pellant there, on behalf of the Right, promoted a proposal to ask the Government to return to the revised national budget reviewing the need for humanitarian aid to North-West Russia. The proposal was sent to the Government without a motion for a resolution. In the same debate, I forewarned that the right hand side of the matter we now have to deal with would propose strengthening the 50-million-dollar allocation. kr in addition to the 100 million. kr The government has already proposed. These funds are intended to strengthen our humanitarian efforts in North-West Russia. I bring this up with the proposal. In the setting, the Workers' Party and SV pointed out that the Right, with its subsidiary vote, was involved in reducing the appropriations under the heading of the budget. Ninety-five to fifty-five million. kr, and that was, of course, Mr. Blankenburg tried to refer to as a game. The reality – the reduction in appropriations – is correct, but at the same time I would remind you from the budget debate that the starting point of the Right Budget proposal was to allocate 120 million. DKK for projects in Central and Eastern Europe and 80 million. humanitarian aid in North-West Russia. It was on the basis of government assurances on three points that the Right, through subsidiary voting, found to accept the reduction in appropriations. For the sake of order, I will repeat the three assumptions that the Right had made: 1) It would be difficult, not to say impossible, to take advantage of a higher allocation in 1999. 2) EUR 200 million commitment framework. kr, which gives the Ministry the opportunity to undertake to grant funds, would be sufficient to continue the work on nuclear safety in Kola. 3) Appropriations and the commitment framework shall together provide the basis for keeping the level of activity unchanged in 1999. The Minister for Foreign Affairs confirmed that these conditions were fundamental and promised to come back with proposals for additional appropriations if these conditions were not met. He has now done so, and for that he deserves honor – even though on behalf of the Right I find it somewhat critical that the Government pushes the problem of budget coverage here, as in some other areas, ahead of the revised national budget. It is also worrying that the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the questions raised by the Committee on Supplementary Appropriations of 100 Mio. € will be sufficient for 1999, including: answers: ‘The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will, within the proposed additional allocation of 100 million. continue humanitarian aid towards the summer. ... However, if it turns out that the situation again becomes extremely difficult, the Government will come back to the question on the basis of a possible renewed official request for assistance from the Russian side.» I therefore assume that the Government of the revised national budget will first follow the recommendation of the Right to carry out a thorough review of the need, and to help ensure that good projects that are in progress or should be implemented do not stop due to lack of money. Secondly, I think that the Stortinget should already adopt the Right-wing proposal to further increase the funding by 50 million. kr – something only SV has notified that they will support. However, I have noted the willingness of the centre parties to increase the allocation if necessary, in the examination of the revised national budget. And in this way I have also noticed the foreign minister's answer, which I just quoted from, where he also suggests the same thing. So let me therefore already now, so that I do not have to take the trip up again before we go to voting, convert the proposal from the Right to a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e154	Siri Frost Sterri has taken up the proposal to which she referred, with the change the representative made.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e157	There is no doubt about the importance, both politically and in fact, of the means we currently have to deal with, which are to go to political and economic reforms and to nuclear safety in North-West Russia and the Baltic States. However, I have no need to protect myself from these very conspiracy theories that the rapporteur makes regarding the budget negotiations, and what he calls the game about the budget. I refer to what the Minister for Foreign Affairs writes to the Committee in relation to the summary of the funds available and what was needed at the time when the budget was discussed, where it is clear that the situation was conditional both on the actual appropriations in the budget and on the drawing and transfer appropriations relating to the same resources. The situation was unclear, and when one then got an overview in January, it turned out that one in 1998 had carried out several of the planned projects than one had reason to assume. So one had greater efficiency and greater pressure in implementing the projects than one had been used to before. It was granted over 400 million. This led to a reduction in transfers from 1998 to 1999. It is therefore very positive that the Government returns to the Grand Duchy with proposals for additional appropriations, so that we can follow up on the important measures in these areas. I don't think at least today's situation means that we're following up on Russia. I think it's an important political signal next to what it actually means for the relationships that this money is going to have. Finally, I am pleased that the representative Siri Frost Sterri made his proposal for a transmission proposal. In the assurances given by the Government to come back in the context of the revised national budget, where appropriate at a time when the need for additional appropriations becomes apparent, the Government will provide both the necessary information and follow-up with proposals for additional appropriations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e168	SV is in this perhaps a bit strange situation that we agree with the Right that more money is needed for North-West Russia, and agree with the Workers' Party in the presentation of the case. I just want to take it quite simply: everyone who is thinking a little bit about it realizes that this is coming now because there was no real interest in Russia in the budgetary procedure last autumn. The centre parties were probably a little interested, but did not stand up and said that Russia is so important that we will stand firm in the budgetary negotiations with the Right and the Advance Party. And nothing around the world suggested that the Right Party and the Advance Party were concerned about these things in the budget negotiations. If they had been, this would of course have been solved at the time. Had the Right said that the most important thing for them was getting more money to Russia and maintaining it as an ultimate demand, instead of tax havens as ultimate demands, I think we can all agree that the 150 million. kr would have been in place already that time. That is the background for the centre parties being a little interested and the right hardly interested at all when the matter was up last autumn. That you've come up with better thoughts afterwards is positive, and nothing is better than that. Ultimately, it is far more important to get a few million more dollars for significant measures in Russia and North-West Russia than to run this budgetary crisis with us. I agree with everything Haakon Blankenborg said about how this case has been dealt with, it is not exemplary. On the other hand, it's much better that we get money for the purpose. Let me just end by saying that in the situation Europe is now in, keeping the channels open to the Russians and actually offering the Russians more and no less money for social and economic reconstruction even more important than it was yesterday. It's been important for a long time, but it's even more important now. That is why we also support the proposal of the Right to further increase in appropriations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e179	I am pleased with the broad support given by the Stortinge to the Government's efforts for Russia and the Baltic region, and expressed also in the speeches that have been held in today's debate. If we go back a little bit, we've seen, after the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991, that Russia has tried to create a civil society based on democracy, pluralism and market economy. From the first day, this has reaped broad Western support, so I do not think this is the basis for the strong criticism that the representative Gundersen is coming along with. There are major problems in Russia, but we have also seen that there has been a desire on the Russian side to develop democracy in the country, and that will, of course, contribute to the security of all of us. But building a new social system, not least in a country like Russia, is both demanding and challenging. The tasks can be overwhelming, and the more important, in the government's view, that Norway and other Western nations are in continuous dialogue with Russia on these very issues. Such cooperation with Russia that we have developed and want to further develop is essential, not least for a neighbouring country such as Norway. If we get this and this can develop positively, I think it will ensure independence also for the other countries in Russia's neighbourhood, which in their time were under Soviet rule. We have tried to establish this cooperation in different areas and in different ways. In the security policy context, Russia’s participation in the NATO/Russia Council is important, there is a question that is not least up for discussion in these days. For the Government, the overall objective is to involve Russia in the full range of Euro-Atlantic cooperation, including in the current situation. In the economic field, support to Russia through Western credits, loans and guarantees is very important. The Russian economy is well-known in a very difficult situation, and active involvement is also required at regional level. In the new Europe that has evolved since 1991, regional cooperation has gained weight and attention. The government considers it important that Russia participates actively in the democratic institutions and organisations in our neighbourhoods. As you know, Norway has held the Presidency of the Barents Council in the last year, and we are taking over the Presidency of the Baltic Council in June this year. In both of these forums, one of the main objectives is precisely to involve Russia in cooperation for the common good. Both organisations have facilitated a people's people's cooperation, and this has helped to create confidence and relaxation. The Government will therefore continue its efforts to cooperate both in the Baltic Sea and Barents Council. With regard to the humanitarian situation that has been highlighted in today’s debate, Russia is in the process of setting aside a hard winter. Last autumn, the economic crisis led to requests for humanitarian assistance from several local Russian authorities, and the Government is very pleased with the response given to these requests, not least from non-governmental organisations and from the local population. The economic situation in Russia is still difficult. The government will therefore not rule out that the need for humanitarian aid will be great in the future, and we shall be prepared to provide such assistance. At the same time, of course, we will have the objective of contributing to a development that can reduce the need for emergency aid. We must not create aid dependence in Russia, and in this way I agree with the representative of Gundersen. On the basis of the proposed additional allocation of 100 million. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in cooperation with the relief organisations, will continue ongoing emergency measures in North-West Russia until the summer. With regard to the question of continued humanitarian aid after that, it is necessary to look at the uncertain development of the Russian economy in general, and the coming agricultural harvest in Russia in particular. At this time, it is difficult to express a strong opinion on how the needs for the supply of food and medicine to North-West Russia will develop. Former governments have been criticized by the Stortinget for having large unused amounts standing, and that is why we have been somewhat more reluctant to ask for appropriations lately. In today's situation, in my view, it is even more important than ever to make a humanitarian effort in Russia, and I therefore fully agree with the representative of Solheim in his emphasis on this need. The government is therefore prepared to come back to the Storting with a detailed explanation of these issues in the context of the revised national budget, such as: The right has proposed. We are naturally also concerned with long-term measures that can help to increase the self-sufficiency of food in North-West Russia. For example, activities are under way to strengthen the yield of potatoes in Murmansk and Arkhangelsk counties using Norwegian seed potatoes adapted to this climate, and we are in constant contact with the Ministry of Agriculture to identify further projects. In the government’s view, Russia has undergone profound changes that have been positive. But the situation is still uncertain, which means that we still need to pay attention to the situation in Russia. In the interests of our own security, this is important, but it is also important in the interests of the people of Russia and the security of the region in general. A positive development in these areas in our largest neighbouring country is crucial for all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e211	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2568]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e225	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for the main speakers from each party group, parliamentary leaders and members of the Government be set at 10 minutes and for the other speakers at 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a succession of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of each party group and parliamentary leaders, as well as five lines with replies from members of the Government. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e232	We can soon put it 20th century behind us. The last part of this century has taught us that peace can only be lasting if it is institutionalised, that is. Member States are bound together by binding rules and laws, and we must have institutions to ensure that they are respected. Security must be collective. The experience of the interwar period was that if there is a perception that human dignity does not have to cover all, it ultimately includes none. Racism, discrimination and nationalism are a creeping disease that must be broken before it gets stuck. When NATO turns 50, maybe it's most important to remember this. NATO is a defence organization, but not any one. NATO is a defence organisation for democracy and human rights. When we never say war again, we basically never mean more nationalism and racism, because that's what caused war. With Europe's experience in this area, we simply cannot accept the fact that human dignity is trampled on again at our own doorstep. This is the situation in Kosovo. And that's what this is all about. Milosevic's on enough ethnic cleansing. We all deeply regret the political and humanitarian situation that has forced a military response. There can be no doubt that the responsibility for the ongoing acts of war lies with President Milosevic of Belgrade, who, in his repeated violations of agreements concluded, his rejection of a negotiated solution and the escalation of violations in Kosovo have given NATO no choice but to respond. The collapse of communism in 1989 created a new situation in Europe. The threat that NATO was created to resist disappeared. However, when communism fell, a new challenge arose in Europe, but partly out of communism. Slobodan Milosevic, the former communist, maintained his authoritarian power by means of nationalism and ethnic cleansing. When we discuss the issue of NATO's involvement outside its core field and the basis of mandate for such actions, we need to have this as a background. I agree with the Prime Minister that it is not desirable to extend NATO's geographical area of responsibility outside the Member States. But there is something else when NATO extends its historical defence against nationalism and racism on the European continent, as it is now in Kosovo. It is necessary that Norway, as a country that has always been among the strongest supporters of the United Nations, underlines the responsibility of the United Nations. Article 7 of the Atlantic Pact follows the United Nations Charter on the primary responsibility of the Security Council for peace and security. The rule must remain that the Security Council shall authorise operations beyond the limits of the alliance. However, the door should be kept open for exemptions if this is necessary to prevent serious infringements of international law. This isn't easy, because it might turn out to be a slide. On the other hand, NATO should not be per. the principle of relinquish the right to intervene, e.g.: genocide if a veto opposes this. This will create an abstinence and cynicism that will be unbearable in the long run. It is on the basis of NATO's democratic value base that NATO is now expanding eastwards. There is an equally clear logic that the door for new countries must be open, provided that they develop a stable democracy and respect human rights. I have to remind you that Hungary, the Czech Republic and Poland have gone through an in-depth process before they were admitted as members. For example, Hungary has: making great efforts to settle ethnic conflicts with their neighbours. That is why it must be quite clear: a country in Europe that is developing a stable democracy has the same right to membership in NATO as the first three, and for that reason the first of all, had. But NATO must reserve the right to operate this process in a sensible and responsible manner in relation to countries that do not have, or want, membership. There will now be a natural break in enlargement after the first three countries have been admitted. It should be used to build better relations with Russia. And we must not forget that there is another great and important country in Europe, namely Ukraine. Russia and Ukraine must be part of Europe's security. Security in Europe is indivisible, it must cover all, otherwise it does not apply at all. I can confirm, after hearing the Prime Minister's statement, that the Labour Party and the Government think similarly in this area. I also welcome the Prime Minister's emphasis on the need for continued nuclear disarmament. The Working Party agrees that there is no basis for a rewording of NATO’s Nuclear Physical Doctrine on the right to first use now. However, this part of the strategy should be under continuous observation and seen in the context of nuclear disarmament work. The situation is critical for the non-proliferation agreement. The last preparatory meeting of the Review Conference for the Non-Proliferation Agreement in 2000 was a failure. The proliferation of nuclear weapons represents a major threat. That is why next year's conference must not be a failure. The world must not be a hostage to despotic regimes and terrorist groups possessing nuclear weapons. Of course, the original nuclear powers have a great responsibility for not doing so. The crisis we are seeing in Bosnia and Kosovo has also shown that Europe has not been able to take a coordinated responsibility for development in the Balkans. It would therefore be a great advantage for Europe to develop what has been called its own defence and security policy identity. Norway has underlined this and needs to develop within NATO with the Western Union as a tool. To date, the Western Union has been outside the EU. But the British-French declaration of the St. Malo Summit last year has created a new basis. We have to assume that the Western Union can be subject to the EU and that the European security policy identity will thus be developed within the EU and on the basis of the Treaty of the European Union. It is then necessary to establish a cooperation relationship in the field of security policy directly between the EU and NATO. This means that decisions relating to NATO will be taken in the EU. Consequently, this would affect Norwegian interests. It is clear that Norway cannot then rely on the consultation system we have with the EU today, as the Prime Minister stated in his statement. Norway shall not be consulted as a fully-fledged NATO member on decisions relating to NATO, we need to demand participation. Norway shall not become a second-rate member of NATO. It is therefore necessary for the Government to take the initiative again with the EU, this time in the field of security and defence policy. And I am convinced that it is possible to do so, if the will is present. It was said when the Berlin Wall fell, that the story had come to an end. Everything would settle down. The period to come would be called Pax America, many claimed, because it would be just one superpower, the United States, and it would decide. The situation was similar with the last century. It was an enormous optimism. The Great Peace Conference was held. The first Nobel Peace Prize was awarded. Lasting peace was to be ensured in a nation's concert led by the great act of the day, Great Britain. It was talking about Pax United Kingdom. But it only took 14 years before World War I broke out and La Belle Epoque was over. What's the big difference in this century is that there are strong institutions built that we have to believe can keep peace at home. There's no Pax America. The only solution is collective security, where all countries have responsibility and rights. It is essential that NATO be able to do this in its continuation. This situation has become, that developments in the Balkans are once again creating contradictions between NATO and Russia, an equally important task is to build new trust here between East and West.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e274	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e277	I would like to ask the representative, Mr Jagland, a question. With regard to the conflict in Kosovo, the Progress Party has always believed that the Government, the majority of the population and NATO have turned to an unrealistic line when it does not want Kosovo to achieve full independence from Yugoslavia. On the contrary, one will try to negotiate a solution whereby the Kosovar Albanians, i.e. more than 90 pst. by the population, shall be subject to the government of Belgrade. Such a solution would mean that the Kosovo foreign and trade policy will be governed by Belgrade. The same applies to military services and taxation. This means that we are in favour of a negotiated solution whereby the Kosovar Albanians are forced to finance and serve in the only army they have every reason to fear, namely the Yugoslav. Such a solution has always appeared immoral to the Advance Party. My question to Jagland is: does he, taking into account recent developments and the contradictions that now exist, believe that there is still a deep ground for a Yugoslavian domination in Kosovo?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e286	It is an incredibly complex and difficult conflict we face here as elsewhere in the Balkans, and of course it is not possible to say that the solution that has been chosen is the only one right. But it's now even chosen. One takes into account that it is not only Serbian nationalism that is the problem in the Balkans, nor in Kosovo, but also other types of nationalism. One also takes into account that this is related to the situation in neighbouring Balkan countries. One should be aware here that the negotiated solution that was tried to achieve in Rambouillet, on which the Kosovar Albanians were willing to sign, would give considerable autonomy to the Kosovar Albanians, and there would have been a significant step towards stabilising the situation. But it was Milosevic who was not willing to sign it, and it was Milosevic who was not willing to give NATO the opportunity to guarantee this negotiated solution. That is why we have the situation today. I think it's much better now to end up with what has been the NATO Alliance's vision than having too much debate about it in the current situation. You can't operate with many solutions at the same time. It's a path that's been chosen, and I think it's quite important for Norway that we try to stand behind the path that our allies in NATO have chosen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e295	I agree with what is the starting point of Thorbjørn Jagland, namely the need for collective security and also to anchor this security in institutions where Norway should be an active member. But we should also be a critical member of these institutions. I feel that we are in the vicinity of a rewriting of history when Jagland claims that NATO has driven a historic struggle against racism and nationalism. In all the time I grew up, Portugal, one of NATO's central members, was the most racist of all countries in Europe, which waged brutal colonial warfare in Africa. And the truth is that it was just the end of the cold war that enabled NATO to address problems such as racism and nationalism. The whole of the central country of NATO was, after all, the top supporters of the White South African regime, the ones who kept it up. It was Gorbachev who abolished the minority regime in South Africa. Had it not been for Gorbachev and the closure of the Cold War, Mandela had still been sitting on Robben Island, and we had still had a racist dictatorship in South Africa, in close contact with some of our allies. This must also be part of the story if we're going to continue to be a critical member of NATO. So to something that's more important and more forward-looking. I've been waiting six months to get the reason why Norway can't bravely say: we're taking away from the first use of nuclear weapons. It is all the more important in the critical situation we are now facing in relation to Russia. There is now a need for action against Russia to involve Russia in pan-European security cooperation. Now we need reassurance with Russia. Norwegian politicians actually travel the world and argue why it's so hard to deal with this matter, instead of why we have to do it. I realize that we are not going to have a majority for this at the NATO meeting this April. But how do you manage to win with this question over a little bit of time if you don't get up and say that this is what we stand for, and that there's actually a connection between non-proliferation and first-use? I challenge the Workers' Party to take a step further in relation to the positive thing that is in Jagland's article in the Evening Post a few days ago.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e307	In the light of history, I think it is necessary to distinguish between what has been NATO's basis for peace and security and what some NATO members have had of attitudes and positions. But it is a fact that what has happened in the Balkans has shown that there has been only one organisation, one institution that has been trusted. Without NATO, the OSCE could not have done anything. Without NATO, the UN could not have done anything either. Now we've come into a situation where we also have to review the relationship between NATO and the UN; I realize that, but it's not time for that now. In terms of first use, I said that it is not time to raise that question in full scope now, but it should be on the agenda. The German government took up this question, but also realized that it was not possible to run that case at the NATO summit now. But it's closely related to what's going to happen to the Non-Proliferation Agreement. I fully agree with Erik Solheim that it is not so easy to justify that other countries, perhaps more threatened, should refrain from this when NATO itself maintains this doctrine. But I still think it's better to go this way that has to do with the Non-Proliferation Agreement and that has to do with the situation with the conventional forces. It is clear that the enlargement of NATO in Europe will take steps to make the conventional situation in Europe completely different, and in this context, of course, the importance of nuclear weapons can also be discussed. But what history has shown is that it's not right, yes it's directly dangerous, to experiment in this area. You have to step forward, and then you see what's possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e314	Thorbjørn Jagland himself chose to go into NATO's activity towards Milosevic and the ongoing and continuing conflict, which has been for a while, in Kosovo. But he said at the end of his reply to Fridtjof Frank Gundersen that it was very important that we now stand behind what our allies in NATO have chosen. I assume that this was a delay in that Thorbjørn Jagland also agrees that Norway should not passively do what the other NATO countries have chosen, but that we ourselves should participate in NATO's internal decision-making process in the same way as the others. And then I want to renew the question from Fridtjof Frank Gundersen. We now see in the conflict and in what is going on that the Serbs are just claiming that Kosovo is part of the Republic of Yugoslavia, and they claim that there is interference with the internal situation of a sovereign state. That's the main reason for the fight against what NATO has chosen to do. Would it not then have been possible at a long earlier stage — it is still not too late — to go into the line of recognising Kosovo as an independent country? Then the Serbian army would be an occupation army. Then the excuse and reason for the international community could no longer be that there is interference in a separate, independent, sovereign state of which Kosovo is part. And to the second question: when the Workers' Party finally accepts that NATO can act without a direct mandate from the UN Security Council, is this a fundamental, persistent change or is it selective, the coin of this one particular case?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e325	Yes, it was possible to experiment with NATO at an early stage in order for Kosovo to be recognised as an independent state. In this case — for Norway and for the vast majority of other countries — it would have been a complete violation of the policy of recognising states. There wouldn't be any independent state at all with Serbian forces standing within the territory. And who in that case was willing to guarantee this state? Did there exist any scheme for that? What would the effects be in the areas around, in Macedonia? And what would the reaction pattern be, what else would we be doing in the Balkans? It is quite important, although we all now condemn Milosevic, to be aware that there are many different forces out there and going to the Balkans that you have to be aware of. You can have long discussions about what should have been done and not done. But the line that's been chosen by NATO, I think it's pretty important that we now end up over. And if Carl I. Hagen understood it so that I thought we hadn't been in that decision-making process, it must have been a deliberate misunderstanding. Of course, we've been there, we've been active co-players, and in a good way, in my opinion, also from the sitting government. And I think it's important that we now keep standing behind this. To the last question, I said that there is a difference between NATO leaving its own territory, for example. into a completely different part of the world, we do not want that, and we are trying to defend the same fundamental rights that have been done on the European continent, within our own territory and what is on the doorstep of our own territory, as is now happening in Kosovo.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e334	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e338	Let me first say a few words about what has been said so far. More than 200,000 Kosovar Albanians have had to flee their homes for the time being. The government of Belgrade is the last communist dictatorship in Europe, and it has still broken international agreements, while in Bosnia it is responsible for ethnic cleansing and an innumerable violation of human rights. Despite all of this, some drawers of international law argue that Kosovo is a part of Yugoslavia, as if Yugoslavia, led by this dictatorship, is a very common state in line with, for example, the rule of law. The Netherlands and Denmark should have exactly the same international rights, although they themselves do not respect international law or human rights at all. A few years ago, it was popular in Norway to talk about popular sovereignty. 90 pst. So they're kosovo Albanians. What about the concept of popular sovereignty? Let us imagine that after Norway, contrary to international law, had dissolved the Union with Sweden in 1905, the Swedes had marched into Norway and burned most of the population in the East. Now let's just think that the European States, by reference to international law, i.e. The Kiel Treaty, opposed Norway's independence. How would we have reacted? Well, there were some reflections on exactly what we've been discussing. Some self-recognition and self-criticism I think we should have on the basis of our historical experience. Most people agree that NATO has fulfilled its task of curbing the rise of Soviet imperialism in Europe. Today, the direct military threat to the European NATO states has disappeared, at least in the coming years. However, this does not mean that Europe is at the entrance to the lukewarm age of security. It simply implies that the threat picture has changed. Now we are facing smaller local conflicts in a globalised world. These may include dictators without respect for elementary human rights, ethnic and religious conflicts, the spread of nuclear weapons, bacteriological weapons and toxic gases. It is terrorism and organized international crime. It is obvious to everyone that the new threats are not overcome by a NATO alliance built up to curb a large-scale Soviet aggression from the east. It is equally clear that NATO states still need to cooperate to defend themselves against the new threats. Although no NATO state is directly threatened militaryly, it is necessary to stop a Saddam Hussein and a Milosevic. When we talk about a globalized world, we should not least bear in mind that the threats no longer follow NATO's external borders. Long-range missiles, modern weapons of mass destruction and international terrorism mean that effective defence of NATO countries requires that the alliance also intervene outside the bounded territorial area of the alliance. Here we are faced with a dilemma of international law. The Government assumes that the use of force by NATO must be based on international law either in the consent of the parties, in the right to self-defence or in the consent of the Security Council. But the government also says, ‘At the same time, we cannot exclude a situation where it is not possible to obtain an explicit authorisation of use of power from the UN Security Council. In such a case, an assessment shall be made, if necessary, as to whether there may be any grounds for doing so under international law. That was the situation when NATO prepared to use power in Kosovo last autumn.» This is in full agreement with the Progress Party. We are very pleased that the Government has stated that we should not get into the hopeless situation that there will be an obvious conflict between international law and collective human rights. This is a situation that can easily come into play, especially when one sees the motive that Communist China would not maintain the UN mandate: that a state had opened relations with Taiwan. So it was enough to block the Security Council, and it was supposed to be totally binding on the world that it did not suit China that another state opened up relations with a country that has been independent for 50 years. Clearly, we cannot leave human rights to such grandiose cults. So here's the time to think new, and I'm very happy that the government has opened up such a thinking. Otherwise, it is quite clear that Europe lacks a common foreign policy and a common defence policy. European countries continue to reduce their expenditure on defence and to cooperate poorly on arms production. America, the United States, is increasing its defence budget, is getting more and more superior and is now in the situation that in a few years' time the American forces will be so superior technologically that they can't actually run exercises with the other NATO countries. In such a situation, it must also be in Norway's interest to strengthen the European part of NATO, the so-called European defence identity and Europe's ability to act — even in cases where Americans are pulling their shoulders and saying that now this fragile Europe must look and organise itself in its neighbourhoods. We should be very interested in contributing to this. Now we have the situation – as it is said – that the Western Union may face its disintegration. I don't know how serious I'm really going to take this. The reason why the Western Union has not become what it intended is that the ten Member States that are there have not agreed on either foreign policy or defence policy. I find it difficult to understand how the same countries, by moving the issues from the WEU to the EU, can achieve greater consensus. It is not the intention of moving this over to the EU that it should come in as something other than intergovernmental cooperation. It is not intended that the Commission or Parliament should have any competence. It is simply a new Treaty on what it means to come within the framework of the European Union. I find it very difficult to understand what they really want to achieve here, especially if – as you say then – you also have to take into account all 18 countries that are somehow linked to the WEU today. However, in any case, Norway will be well served to follow this process.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e367	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e370	We now have a NATO debate in the light of a current situation, where I think it is important that we can agree that there are no absolute truths. Sometimes I think the representative Gundersen might be a bit absolute when he talks about the situation in Kosovo, and the situation in the Balkans at all. But I think he had some interesting investigations about the conflict that sometimes will have to arise between international law and human rights. And I'm going to give him the right idea that there might be conflicts that lie in that exact intersection. I have a specific question for Fridtjof Frank Gundersen. I listened to his post with interest, but could not find anything in relation to the absolutely necessary cooperation that NATO must also have with Russia. In what way does the representative Gundersen and the Progress Party believe that we should deal with our great neighbour in the East? How does he feel that the current security and defence policy debate in Europe should be linked to a relationship with Russia? How should NATO deal with Russia in the future? How are we going to deal with the Partnership for Peace? And does the representative Gundersen have any thoughts whatsoever about Russia's relationship with NATO, also in relation to any future enlargement?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e377	I have visited the Russian Duma several times and my characteristic is this: there are a number of tired, pointless old men who primarily think with bitterness of the past, and, as far as I can understand, have no prospects, they return to communism, to cevinism. And of course, it's very difficult to cooperate with a government that has such a paralytic assembly in its back. Well, Russia has entered the Council of Europe, Russia is cooperating with NATO, Russia is now also participating with one of its thirteen old parliamentarians in the Western Union at the meetings there. Yeah, what do you really say? Of course, you can spend some money on them sometimes and make encouraging remarks. – This may not have been a diplomatic way of expressing itself, but it certainly reflects reality. There's not much we can do to touch this colossus. We're sitting here in this room and we know minimally, and it's also clear that the Russians know little about their own country for the time being, so here I think we're going to be very modest, and then we'll talk when we find an occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e384	I only have one question: Was this the view of one of the largest parties in Stortinget, or was it the view of the representative Gundersen?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e389	My answer is that the word for word was not, of course, the point of view of the Advancement Party, but, in general, I think I expressed the attitude of the Advancement Party. But if the representative Blankenburg thought I was quoting the party program, that's not quite right.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e394	I am not quite sure whether we are in the midst of the most central point of the debate now, but I would nevertheless like to say that there has been a clear NATO policy, which has also been followed in parliamentary terms, to involve Russia in a larger community, and not least draw Russian politicians into a larger security policy network. This is clear NATO policy, also enshrined in the basic act between Russia and NATO. My experience is, and I've spent relatively much time on it, probably significantly more than Mr. Gundersen, that in the Duma and not least in the Federation Council, which in many ways is an interesting contrast, it is possible to have a dialogue on substance across rhetoric and that is forward-looking. When Mr. Gundersen added to the tone he makes, is my question simply: does he think that NATO is on the wrong track in trying to involve Russia in a wider context in its policy, and not least in the parliamentary context, is trying to involve Russian politicians in a wider context?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e401	I cannot understand how it has been possible to get such an impression of my post. I think it is absolutely excellent that Russia is represented in as many European organisations as possible, and that contact is as extensive as possible. I just maybe gave a realistic view of what we can expect from these contacts, what expectations we can have when faced with a Russian duma possessed like it is today. I would essentially just warn against naivety. Moreover, as I said in my previous post, the Russians have not contributed anything particularly to streamlining the cleaning up of nuclear pollution, either by signing treaties or by allowing the transfer of Norwegian goods to get these matters sorted out. One also sees how the Russians today support the Serbs, who, with open eyes, commit these incomprehensible violations of human rights. The Russians fully support them. And you don't hear a word about the human rights violations going on, just a sentimental defense for the Serbs. Everyone must understand that it is not unproblematic to cooperate with representatives of a people who have that attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e408	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e411	There are many interesting points for follow-up and further discussion here in Stortinget based on the Prime Minister's presentation. NATO's 50th anniversary gives rise to reflection on NATO's historical significance as peacemakers in the last half of this century, and it gives an opportunity to draw the lines forward for NATO's role, on the historic enlargement with the three new member states from former Eastern bloc countries, and not least on the successful conversion of this organisation after 40 years of cold war and a new adaptation of NATO's strategic concept, to be discussed at the Washington Summit at the end of next month. These are all themes that it would be natural to mention in such a context. Now most of it is in the shadow of the military action carried out under the NATO regime in Serbia. The media, trade unionists, researchers and politicians are commenting today on the dilemmas associated with such armed action against a sovereign state. Everyone is concerned with the basis of international law: what gives us – i.e. NATO — an opportunity and a reason for action, when in this case one does not have the customary mandate of international law through a direct decision of the UN Security Council? The Prime Minister commented on this in his press conference yesterday, which summed up the views in a good way, and which I believe has a broad understanding and acceptance. I think it is important to stress that despite a concrete safety decision, important decisions have been taken in the Security Council which express clear positions and views on the situation in Kosovo and on the threat posed by the tense situation in Kosovo in relation to peace and security, not only in the Balkans but throughout the region. In particular, this Security Resolution applies to 1199. Milosevic has also broken previous agreements with the US Chief Trader Holbrooke, and there is clear evidence and reports of serious violations against the civilian population and of non-compliance with the Security Council’s obligations. So NATO's action comes as a consequence of a clear breach of promises and agreements that Milosevic has committed itself to, and after all attempts at a peaceful solution have been exhausted. There have been many such test rounds, and it is therefore regrettable that you have had to go to this step. But in this situation, of course, it is a strength that NATO stands together, and that the Storting seems to be the closest thing to the line of the Government in terms of the necessity and basis of the action that is now taking place. This has not been easy decisions to make, and I think there is reason to commend both Prime Minister, Foreign Minister and Minister of Defence for the way in which they have dealt with this difficult situation. Like many others, I am convinced that the option of not trading would have been much worse. In my view, we cannot avoid responsibility when war threatens the heart of Europe, with clear features of ethnic cleansing, the possibility of large refugee flows and significant political instability as a possible result. An armed action is problematic and regrettable. But the alternative – the danger of a severe humanitarian disaster – is worse. That's why it had to be done. And President Milosevic must take full responsibility for what is now happening. He had many opportunities to come to a peaceful understanding with NATO and with the various peace brokers who have regularly visited Belgrade recently. But it has turned out that Milosevic has never had a real will for peace, but has been driving a pure procrastination to gain time to strengthen his own position and to make his preparations. This had to be stopped. It has also been about NATO's credibility, it has also been about protecting the civilian population from new, gross abuse and ethnic persecution. Of course, it is also about weakening President Milosevic's ability and ability to carry out his perpetrators and abuses. The hope is, of course, that this action should convince the President that he cannot cope with his will and his perpetrators, and that the only dangerous way and solution lies in a negotiating arrangement, as presented in Rambouillet and later accepted by the Kosovar Albanians. It is important to remember the background to the creation of NATO when considering today's international political picture. The Prime Minister quoted the former Minister of Foreign Affairs Halvard Lange in his statement. He summed up the motifs as ‘a burning desire for’... ‘to save the world from the fears’... ‘a new war will lead to, not just our country, but all over the world’. The main challenge facing the alliance today is to align the instruments and strategy of a new security reality. This means that NATO will increasingly be able to concentrate its resources on the development of democracy, human rights and strengthening the rule of law throughout the scope of NATO. For Europe, the creation of NATO was important for the new Europe that emerged after the war. By ensuring peace in the way that NATO has done, the Alliance has contributed to the concentration of political forces on value creation and social and material well-being. The visible results are obvious. But the threat of war has been there all along. The situation in the Balkans — particularly in Residual Yugoslavia — shows clearly how crises arising from nationalism and historical contradictions, ethnic and religious conflicts create major security policy challenges, which also have ring-fenced effects in our neighbourhood. This means that we will increasingly face a moral and political responsibility when life and human dignity and human rights are threatened or attacked. This also brings us up in both political and moral dilemmas that we have to solve. I believe that, based on today's political threat picture, it is necessary to review these dilemmas in order to have a clear response to how we deal with these issues. Norway has always been a strong and loyal NATO country. It is clearly linked to our own national interests to secure allies in the defence of a small country with a long coastline with an important strategic location in Europe. The focus of security policy is now shifted, and NATO’s strategic concept is changing, with new tasks related to crisis management, peace operations and extensive contact activities through various forms of cooperation. The inclusion of three new Member States is a visible expression of this new era in NATO, which will help to strengthen the alliance and build up under NATO’s eligibility. The fact that NATO's 50th anniversary coincides with the fact that we are facing the dawn of a new millennium shows at the same time that new challenges and tasks require new ideas and instruments. The cold war caused the transition to begin, and what we have seen so far has proved to be remarkablely effective and successful. Despite this, the traditional functions of collective defence and transatlantic cooperation continue to form the basis for meeting these new tasks. Today’s safety picture is marked by crisis management. It puts NATO on an extra hard test. However, in the long term, the network of NATO through various forms of cooperation will have the greatest impact on stability and security in the area of the alliance. That is why I disagree with Mr Gundersen's representative when, in my opinion, he fails to recognise the importance of relations with Russia, which I believe is very central to creating stability in our own area. It is therefore worrying that Russia is threatening to break the work of the special cooperation body between NATO and Russia. It is therefore important that efforts be made to restore this cooperation, which is so important to our own security policy situation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e441	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e445	It is first a comment from Steensnæs to Gundersen that the importance of relations with Russia should not be underestimated. I am absolutely convinced that neither the representative of Gundersen nor the Progress Party has done so. What must be central here is that we cannot, in the interests of Russia, sit and accept genocide and human rights violations over a low shoe, as has happened in the past. I am pleased with the position taken by Steensnæs regarding the concrete conflict we are now facing in relation to Yugoslavia. But the signal effect here is very important, that you don't have to ever leave any doubt that if a country is about to commit a genocide, this could have consequences for them. My point is that international law must not obstruct human rights. Human rights are fundamental, and they are the moral foundation of international law. If you don't have human rights, you don't have international law in my opinion either. So my question to the representative Steensnæs is, also in view of the recent debate we have seen in the media, whether he believes that preventing a humanitarian disaster is enough in itself to allow NATO to intervene in a conflict. My opinion is that in certain situations there is need, and that is in this situation. But it will also be elsewhere, and what the perpetrators and oppressors need to know clearly is that no one can be safe by referring to and hiding behind international law.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e452	We can get through quickly with the relationship with Russia, and then agree, as I understand Day Danielsen, that Russia's contact with the Western countries – and networking, such as. Takes place through NATO – is important for our own security policy situation. The wording of the representative Fridtjof Frank Gundersen and the disrespectful mention of the Duma was not to suggest this, but I am pleased that Dag Danielsen is now cleaning up this on behalf of the Progress Party. So ask Dag Danielsen if it's enough that there is a humanitarian disaster in place to intervene, possibly with armed means to sort it out. No, I think that'll be too simple a problem. Unfortunately, we still have humanitarian disasters in large parts of the world, and it would be taking on too much responsibility, a responsibility we could not bear, a responsibility where we had neither the means nor the means to intervene. What I think must be important to us is to see to what extent a humanitarian disaster also means a threat to peace and stability in the area where we are responsible. The scope of NATO is well known, and the conflict we have in Kosovo poses a significant threat to stability and security in the core of NATO. There must be a strong contributing reason to be able to intervene in the way that NATO has now done. But there's no reason to hide that there's a dilemma associated with this. Therefore, it is important that one does not give way to the grounds of international law for intervention, and as I said in my statement, there are clear knives and justifications also of international law in relation to the Security Council and in relation to the agreements that have been concluded, in order for an armed action to be justified and necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e459	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e462	It's kind of the irony of fate that today, when we should take the time to look back in 50 years with one of the most successful international organizations in this century, we're in the middle of a very serious crisis situation. We would normally have used this day to discuss the future problems that NATO is going to or might be dealing with. Now we're not theorizing this anymore, we're talking about this in the very most practical terms. Some may wonder that the Storting does not go even deeper in the debate on the Kosovo conflict. To that I would like to say that in this matter the government has consulted carefully and nitidly with Stortinget. It knows where the Stortinget is. And right today, I think it's very important that it sends the signal to Serbia that we're behind the policy that NATO and the outside world have put themselves on. If there's something you shouldn't do in a serious situation, it's just starting a big discussion that carries in it a doubt about which way you want to go. That's why the spontaneous questioning session went on as it went yesterday, and that's also the background that today's debate may not always address the most central questions that people are concerned about. That's true, though, because it's sending this message to Milosevic that's the point. There is no doubt that there is a serious humanitarian situation in Kosovo that has justified what NATO is now doing. It's an attack on our very most central values. NATO does its action only after it's obvious that you can't get anywhere else. It is quite tragic to note that the UN in this situation is not an answer. We should all have wanted that, but we must note that this is not the case. And then that doesn't have to lead to that we don't do anything, but that we use the instrument we have -- NATO. That's why this has been right. Of course, there are many counter-conceptions. Of course, much can be discussed. Of course there are many risks. But there's nothing to say that there are risk-free exposures in as serious conflicts as this. One of the issues raised as a problem is the relationship with Russia. I readily agree with what today Danielsen says that Russia cannot control what we are going to do here. At the same time, it is important that NATO in its policy towards Russia ensure that it is inclusive. Fridtjof Frank Gundersen was probably very far from the world of reality when he referred to the Duma in the way he did. I am delighted to be one of three chairmen of the body set up between the Duma and the NATO Parliamentary Assembly to just go through all sides of NATO/Russia cooperation, and I must say that the description Fridtjof Frank Gundersen gives, in no way is correct. You'd think the Duma is just Shirinovskijs. That is not the case – fortunately. I look more optimistic about the relationship with Russia. I think it is a fundamental community of interests between Russia and the West to achieve stability, including stability in the relationship with the West – not least when Russia is facing a great economic uncertainty in the future. So a few words about the presentation, which is what today's debate should be based on. I must say that I think the Prime Minister's statement in many ways did not give us what we were looking for. There are many difficult balances relating to NATO's strategic concept that we should have discussed in a more thorough way than an open presentation invites, at least as the Prime Minister put it up. There were a couple of points that were finely clarified. One is that you don't want to do anything material about the nuclear strategy. And I think that's wise. The other thing may be a little unclear, but I hope that the Prime Minister's statement on the relationship with the EU is to understand that what Norway wants to seek is an influence at least of the same category as what we now have in the Western Union. It's much more ambitious than just consultation. It simply means that we should sit inside when the important things happen. I hope that's what the Prime Minister really meant, and in that case I'll ask him to confirm this. There is no doubt that this is what the Storting wants, if I understood Thorbjørn Jagland correctly. I have the same point of view, and then it is quite reasonable to see where the Storting is on that question. I said that I think there are some ambiguities, that there is a lack of precision, and when I meet with a statement in the statement that there has to be a balance between the treaty-based core of cooperation and the new fundamental tasks related to crisis management and partner cooperation, it says nothing at all. The jumping point is what kind of balance you then aim to achieve. I want to warn you that you're trying to make too many contradictions between these two problems. I think to the highest degree that there are two sides to the same thing. Taking up the insurance premium that NATO cooperation involves doesn't mean there's any contradiction to taking on new tasks, rather the opposite. I think it's relevant in relation to today's tasks, just something that will strengthen the willingness to take out the insurance premium in the long term. We should also have a much more thorough debate on the interests that NATO cooperation is suitable for dealing with. Of course, tasks outside of Article 5 have to be considered on a case-by-case basis. However, I think it is appropriate that we take time to discuss what kind of challenges NATO cooperation can be suitable to address. Is it e.g. suitable for dealing with a terrorist challenge? How do you even look at the new challenges that could come from the Caucasus, the Middle East and North Africa? I think a thorough debate in this area is right. As far as the geographical area is concerned, it is clear that Article 5 has a clear geographical demarcation. But that does not mean that you have no interest or can do anything when the geography is exceeded, as it is now done in Kosovo, and as it was done in Bosnia. I also have to say, on the question of mandate, that I think it should be subject to a somewhat more thorough assessment. I absolutely belong to those who believe that humanitarian emergency law is something we can use here, precisely to get the right legal basis for what is desired. I guess there won't be much discussion about enlargement today. I just want to say that one of the challenges at the summit must be to make open door policy credible. It would be useful to see more about how to do this. It's interesting to see that just five years ago most of the Storting thought it was most irresponsible to talk about NATO enlargement, and today it's completely uncontroversial. There are two other issues that, at my discretion, should have been discussed in greater detail. It is the fact that defence appropriations in a number of countries are now very, very low. I think the heads of state of NATO should have the ambition at the summit to agree that there should be a floor for defence appropriations, and I think they should also use the opportunity to discuss it carefully... the gap that is about to arise over the Atlantic. I want to end by saying a few words about what the Prime Minister has proposed. I have tried to be as positive as I can, because I think there is a need to look at what changes the new concept might have to bring about. But it gets true to say harder and harder, and I'm afraid that the government of Bondevik once again points to investigation instead of action. When I say that, it's because it's not more than two days since the government had the chance to take the first step to fulfill the new concept, namely to get a practice and shooting field. It said no to the government, it lacked the ability to act. The second question is about the lack of appropriations to fill up the structure we have. That was where the government of Bondevik cut bloody in the fall. You could follow up by real action. When it is stated in the mandate to investigate within realistic economic frameworks, as it is called, my scepticism is very, very eloquent. When we know that there is a communication to spring about operations outside the core area, and we are going to have a new long-term plan for defence, I have a bad feeling that there is no shortage of places to come up with views, or lack of areas to discuss new things, there is simply a lack of government policy. If that's what's missing, there's every reason to be concerned about the Bondevik government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e501	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e504	I note that the representative Petersen has had a somewhat different experience with the Communist and Shirinovsky representatives in the Russian Duma than I have had, and that he may also have a different assessment of their position on Milosevic. What I was really going to say is that I'm going to think that if the Russians analyze their situation in a slightly more forward-looking way and not just look back at the Soviet Union's time, they'll come to be far more vulnerable, even military, than Europe. They have major problems in the south, and it would be a great advantage for Russia if they could join NATO, so that the Russians could be helped, and that they were covered by NATO's guarantee. The problem here is, of course, that guaranteeing Russia's future borders would be a very large and risky guarantee for NATO, with the solution trend in that country. What I really just wanted to say is that there would really be a very good situation about Russia being in NATO, and that it would have been possible for NATO to guarantee stability in Russia. My criticism is basically directed at the attitude that is felt in the Russian Duma.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e511	My point was that when I'm in Russia, I don't really stick with Shirinovskij. There are completely different forces that there is reason to talk to. I'm not saying that there's something that's somehow unproblematic here. Russia may once again develop into a problem if an economic crisis leads to more or less semi-fascist regimes or regimes of similar character. But it can also be part of the solution to the security problems that we will see in the 21st century linked, for example. to the Middle East, as Russia has been a little hesitant in Bosnia. Russia’s involvement in Bosnia has been a positive contribution. It offers that something can happen for the future. I'm not saying there's not huge problems here, but what's the alternative? We've thought it would be important to try to draw Russian decision-makers into a larger network just to build up some of the contradictions and misunderstandings about what NATO really is about. We've been working on this for a few years. It is quite interesting to see how the development of the view of enlargement has been. At first, it was hard to say no. Then we've come into a situation where it's accepted, and eventually it's going to float all the way out of the agenda. There is no doubt that we have a huge problem with Kosovo that will temporarily disrupt this cooperation. There we have to tell the Russians that they are simply on the wrong track, because this is about ensuring that the parties in Kosovo do not kill each other to the extent that they have done so far. But the importance of dialogue is great, and precisely because there are many parties with which it makes sense to engage in dialogue, I think it is important to try to do this work in the future. I think that when this immediate discharge is over, it will be possible to get back there, because you see the basic community of interests that, after all, is there, not least in a difficult economic situation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e520	In my main speech, I will come back to views on the current situation in the Balkans. I just want to grab hold of a single moment in what Jan Petersen said, as I think is dangerous, and it's that he initially gave the impression that now it's about to say stop the debate on what's going on, and end the sequences behind NATO. I think that idea is dangerous, and I'm going to give three essential arguments for it. First of all, it's just the right to free speech, that is, the democratic fundamental rights that NATO is trying to defend in the Milosevic settlement. Then we can't give them up, and then let alone conduct the debate in parallel with defending these rights in the Balkans. Secondly, we cannot hide that very, very many people, both in our country and in the rest of Western Europe, are sceptical about what is going on. We're asking ourselves, do we have anything down there to do? Is what we're doing working? Can Norwegian soldiers be sent home to kill? Is it worth the price in the sense that we can stop Milosevic? If we are to answer these questions, which people quite legitimately ask us about, we must have a continuous, sustained debate on this, also in the Stortinget. Where in the world is this debate going to take place if it is not to take place in this Chamber? Finally, this debate is taking place in all other countries. This is a difficult debate. There's no simple phase response. One of the things that makes me have had such a fundamental trust in Minister of Foreign Affairs Vollebæk throughout this whole process is that he never, at any time, either in the public debate or in the internal statements here on the Stortinget, has concealed that this is difficult, but that we have to do it anyway. I think that's the only way to deal with this question in this room further in the time that's coming.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e531	My point of what I said instead is first of all to answer the question that some people have had, namely whether there has been any debate at all. That's why I say that the government has been, very meritorious, careful to consult the Storting and obtain views, so that there has been a thorough assessment of the situation we have come up with. This is not a new situation that occurred now. This has been foreseen as an opportunity for many months – an opportunity that we hope would not come true. But I assume that everyone has thought through that possibility could also be there. And there has also been a public debate on that. I also fully agree with Erik Solheim that it is very important to answer many of the questions that people now have, which, for natural reasons, only appear when the matter is completely topical, as it has become with this bombing. But my concern was basically to say that now the Western world must not involve itself in a debate all the time that raises doubts about the line chosen. It can give fuzzy signals and maybe give Milosevic a hope that if he just lasts long enough, we'll end up with internal disagreement and withdraw, and he can take it easy. That's why I think it's very important that we now send clear, unambiguous signals that the line we've chosen, we stand by. My reply was also intended in relation to the desire of the Progress Party to do this now as a debate on a different strategy. There's an interesting debate in many ways. I have to say, I don't think we can get through to Milosevic at seminars. I think we'll get through with glass clear talking, and I think we should all contribute to that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e538	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e542	NATO’s military action against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia provides a dramatic and sad framework for today’s debate on the basis of the alliance and key tasks on the threshold of a new century. The situation that everyone had hoped to avoid, but that many had feared, is today a reality that we must relate to. For the first time in NATO’s history, NATO has taken military action against a sovereign state – a state and a leader who have refused to bow to the massive demands of the world society to stop the acts of war and the attacks on the Kosovar Albanian population, so that one can avoid a humanitarian disaster in Kosovo. Although Slobodan Milosevic must bear the primary responsibility for the tragic development of the Balkans, NATO military action raises a number of difficult issues and dramatically updates the forthcoming discussions on NATO's strategic concept at the Washington Summit at the end of April. NATO summit will mark a milestone in the history of Western defence cooperation. The transformation of the alliance into a new era and new challenges and the adaptation of NATO's strategic concept to a new reality will be a key element of the meeting. But everything suggests that the 50th anniversary of the signing of the North Atlantic Treaty will be overshadowed by NATO's commitment to the Balkans. At the same time, however, the situation in Kosovo and NATO military operations in Serbia illustrates the serious dilemma of international crisis management. The difficult balances the alliance has had to make in Kosovo are directly involved in the ongoing debate on the NATO ‘principal map’: These are the international legal bases for the implementation of peace operations, the relationship with the UN bodies and the UN Charter, the geographical demarcation of NATO military activities, the European security and defence identity and the relationship with the EU and the Western Union. The conflict in the Balkans thus represents a dramatic backbone of the debate on the future role of NATO as a defence Salliance and as a defender of fundamental democratic and human rights. Both as a defence alliance and a stabilising factor in Europe, NATO has undoubtedly been a major success. The key to this success lies not least in NATO’s ability to adapt to new challenges and a changed threat picture. The Alliance has the power to carry out the traditional core tasks as a defence alliance while NATO has stood up as a defender of important values such as democracy, human rights and the rule of law throughout the Euro-Atlantic region. Following the closure of the Warsaw Pact, NATO has shown the ability to attract ever new countries into security policy cooperation that also includes countries that were previously defined as enemies. While NATO has an open door for new members, a trust-building effort has brought a wide range of countries into cooperation with the Euro-Atlantic Partnership Council. NATO also has the power to involve Russia and Ukraine in formal cooperation within the framework of the NATO-Russia Council and the NATO-Ukraine Commission. Norway’s line must be that the strategic concept must continue the traditional functions of NATO at the same time as the new tasks, inter alia, linked to it. crisis management and peace operations must be given a central place in a transformed NATO. The Washington Summit will consolidate NATO's increased commitment to crisis management and various peace operations. In this context, the issue of legality and the basis of international law for such operations will have to be central. The Central Party assumes that the implementation of NATO operations shall be carried out on a basis of international law and with respect for international rules of law. Use of power must be based on international law, either in agreement with the parties, on the right to self-defence under Article 51 of the United Nations Charter, or on a mandate from the Security Council. There is reason to stress that the Government ‘wants to see this reflected in the revised strategic concept’. The question is whether extreme situations may arise that require world society to react with power use, even if these assumptions are not fully met. This is a major dilemma, which has been highlighted in Kosovo in recent months. The question that needs to be raised is whether there is a limit to violence, assault on the civilian population and humanitarian disasters that can justify the use of power without an explicit authorisation and that are not rooted in the principles and ideal demands we normally want to make. Or in another way: can we talk about a kind of ‘international emergency law’ that implies that agreed principles and other considerations must give way when the option is genocide or major humanitarian disasters? Although you have supported the Government's line in this matter, the Center Party believes that this is a discussion we need to take and a question that needs to be clarified when NATO's new strategic concept is to be developed. Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter authorises the use of coercive measures when a situation needs to be judged as a threat to international peace and security. A difficult humanitarian situation should weigh heavily when the Security Council is to decide on the use of armed power. In this context, it may be noted that the Security Council, in Resolution 1199, found that the acts of war and the massive attacks on the civilian population in Kosovo were a threat to peace and security in the region. In reality, the UN Security Council has stated that abuses that could lead to humanitarian disasters and an unmanageable refugee problem pose a threat to peace and security. NATO as a defence alliance must deal with threats and crises that may have consequences for the common security interests of the Member States. NATO shall not be a ‘world police’. The focus of NATO shall remain on the Euro-Atlantic region. The geographical area of responsibility of NATO should be demarcated to the territories of the Member States. The parts of NATO’s strategic concept relating to the use of nuclear weapons must also be subject to assessment and updating. There is also an interesting debate going on in NATO. Although this discussion has made it clear that it is not appropriate to address changes to NATO’s nuclear doctrines in the forthcoming update of the strategic concept, NATO needs to have an ongoing debate on the nuclear-related elements of the concept, including nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation, as stated in the statement, Norway has focused on the issue of nuclear disarmament to our allies. The central party assumes that Norway will continue this line in the ongoing discussions on NATO’s strategy into a new century. The ongoing debate on closer coordination of EU security policies could have an impact on Norwegian interests. Uncertainty is still linked to the outcome of the EU defence and security policy process. In any case, the government must assume that Norway's rights as an ally shall continue if institutional changes affecting the alliance are implemented. And as stated in the statement: From the EU countries there is a broad understanding of Norway’s position on this issue. Then time will show whether the existing consultation system can continue to safeguard Norway’s interests in an acceptable way. The assumption of Norwegian defence and security policy is changing rapidly. Flexibility is a major requirement for our national defence planning. Against this background, I am somewhat surprised that some opposition parties have expressed a negative attitude to the defence policy investigation announced by the Prime Minister in his statement, and that would just have the aim of contributing to the development of a new long-term defence notification that is as timely and up-to-date as possible in relation to the current security policy challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e574	Norway is currently at war in Europe for the first time since 1945. So seriously, the situation, and no rewrites can cover this fact. I also think it's dangerous that we use different words and later that it's not real. No one can exclude that Norwegian soldiers or Norwegian pilots may also be killed in combat acts in the current war in and around Kosovo. Our system must also be prepared to take such a situation in a dignified and proper way. When Norway is at war – even though it is a piece from our borders – we have a duty to ask ourselves: Could this have been avoided? Did there exist any alternative? Yes, there was an alternative at the time when the Kosovar Albanians fought their nonviolent battle. Then they were failed by the world community. There was no interest in what they were doing, there were small notes in the newspapers, and there were hardly enough debates in our big business. But when the Kosovar Albanians became impatient after nine years and did what any other people would do in a similar situation, namely, to move from nonviolence to violence because the nonviolence did not produce any results, from that time on into a situation where it is not easy to see that the world community could react differently. And from the moment Milosevic answered this with the most brutal form of repression in the Balkans, I can't see that something could have been done significantly differently from NATO or Norway. Because what we have to hold on to is that there's only one single reason why a nearly unanimous rise in power gives its support to, and that's that the option is worse. We only accept NATO bombing and NATO warfare in the Balkans because the alternative to this is even worse. When NATO posed its threats last fall, 300,000 people were already fleeing Kosovo, and the winter cold stood at the door. They were fleeing in front of a regime that has shown in Srebrenica that it is not the least afraid to commit the most grotesque form of genocide we have seen in Europe since World War II. One went into a situation where almost certainly there would be gerlia warfare in the heart of Europe. And some people think that guerrilla warfare, so to speak, is less bloody and less dangerous, with less suffering for the civilian population than is going on. The truth is, by all probability, the true opposite: it would be an even much worse situation. This is the only legitimate and the important and decisive reason why it is acceptable what we now have, namely that the option would be many, many more killed and a much longer-term conflict. So you're dealing with a regime where you can never trust what its leader says is true, where you lie international politicians straight up in the face and you see them right in the eyes while you do that, where the regime's leaders have sanctioned genocide, where the regime's leaders are the engine and the driving force behind wars in the Balkans where 200,000 are killed, and where, in the middle of the mass murder in Srebrenica, everyone in the international community lies straight up in the face. What can be achieved in this situation? There are two possible goals for what NATO is now doing. One is to force Milosevic back to the negotiating table to accept the peace agreement that the Kosovo Albanians have already concluded and that there is every reason that Serbia should also be able to sign. So it is an agreement where Kosovo does not get the autonomy that I believe is 99 pst. of all the Kosovar Albanians actually want. They are given autonomy within a Yugoslav Federation and not a completely independent state. That's one thing: to force Milosevic back to the negotiating table. Then you also have to wage warfare in such a way that it happens. And the second is that in itself, it's a legitimate goal to weaken the Serbian war machine so much that it can't commit any more and more assaults on the Kosovar Albanian civilian population. But of course it's a goal that's hard to reach from the air. I think a crucial moment like NATO and we have to keep an eye on it is the time aspect. It's better to go into this war with so much force in a shorter period of time that you achieve the goals you've set, than to let this out over very, very long time, with incalculable consequences. We must all realize that we do not have answers to all the questions the conflict asks. After all, the conflict in Kosovo and the Balkans is also illustrative of almost all the fundamental issues that have been asked of the Grand Duchy to take a decision today. It illustrates the question of UN mandate. And there I'll warn those who are diluting this by saying that it's not a significant question. The UN mandate must be the rule for Norwegian action in international conflicts. Everything else must be the exception, and everything else must require a very specific justification in the given situation. And I believe that the Serbian genocide in the Balkans and the dramatic humanitarian situation are the reasons for what NATO is now doing. But we are weakening our own justification by saying that, in the case of Iraq too, we take on a number of other reasons that almost have no international legitimacy and support. So the conflict in the Balkans illustrates NATO's future task. NATO has been an organisation claiming to defend a territory. Everyone understands, I believe, that this is not the main purpose of NATO today. There is no military threat to NATO's territory. And typically, this historical perspective, which has been NATO's justification, was almost not present in the Prime Minister's statement, it was mentioned in the epistles, while the new tasks, the ability to run military conflict resolution, were totally dominant in the presentation. It illustrates how far we have, in all reality, got away from the starting point and over to something new. I think it's important that we now explicitly recognise this new, and that we also start the discussion through the Commission that the Government now appoints, about what it means for our defence, about what kind of equipment and material, what kind of practice patterns, and what kind of competence the defense should have. When the problems are new and others, they also have to have consequences for how we spend our money. But here it's an extreme inertia, where in a lot of what we're doing, we're stuck in the pattern of the past. So the conflict in the Balkans illustrates what the Americans have brought into the debate, namely that NATO should be an organisation that defends interests more than territory. Well, that's right with what NATO is doing right now. NATO defends essential interests in the Balkans – the rule of law, human rights and the ability to prevent genocide. But it is very important that we do not confuse it with the fact that NATO can be an organization that defends interests, in the sense that any military strategic or economic interest, NATO countries had to have any place on the globe. The conflict also illustrates that NATO's core task must be in Europe. I'm glad that it seems like all parties are taking a distance from NATO being a global organization, to be able to operate in Africa, Asia and Latin America. NATO must be the military part of the European security system, where the OSCE is the civil part. Then we're all about what might be the most important thing now, to make sure that the conflict we're now seeing does not lead to a lasting weakening of relations between NATO and Russia. Without a close partnership between Western Europe and Russia, there will be no lasting solution to Europe’s security problems. If the Russians supply Serbia and the Americans and the West to Serbia's opponents with weapons, conflicts in Bosnia and Kosovo – and anywhere else in Europe – are going on in the near future. Russia must be part of the international security system. NATO’s eastward enlargement must aim at Russia either being a normal part of NATO or entering into such a permanent partnership with NATO that all conflicts cease to exist in a new security system. Then we imagine a future pan-European security structure, where the OSCE is the civil part, and NATO is the military part. Without this being handled from day to day, with emphasis on Russia, we are on dangerous roads. Then we also know what I'm going to end with, the question of the first use of nuclear weapons. Even this issue is illustrated by the situation in the Balkans. For the real nightmare – which is not an improbable possibility in the 2000s – is that countries like Serbia and Iraq own nuclear weapons. From a monopoly of large, often expansive, aggressive countries — yet countries with a certain level of control — in the 2000s, nuclear weapons can become something even terrorist groups and individual organisations have, and in any case, medium-sized terrorist countries such as the United States. Serbia and Iraq. Just because the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons to those degrees is a core task – it is a prerequisite for resolving these kinds of crises in the future – we must work towards the first use of nuclear weapons by NATO, because if NATO does not distance itself from first use, one can never obtain credible non-proliferation agreements in the case of nuclear weapons.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e602	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e605	I think there were many interesting and good thoughts in Solheim's posts today. What made me take the floor anyway was that a few days ago we read in the newspapers, in the newspaper, that Erik Solheim declared that he is now a NATO trailer. In his post now he referred to the fact that it was very important that we now went very militarily immediately and instead put in a short-term shock, so that the process should not be so long-lasting. Of course, a prerequisite for doing so is that you have had a prior long-term build-up of your defence skills. What is NATO's success today, and that makes NATO play such a central role in world politics as it does, is precisely that NATO is so powerfully military. This will, of course, also be equally decisive in the years to come. My question to the representative of Solheim is about his current NATO position – that he supports NATO – will be followed up by the representative of Solheim and SV also in terms of safeguarding NATO's military defence capabilities in the future, so that NATO can resolve the conflicts and also play the central role as a stabilising and peace-keeping element in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e616	First, for the sake of order, I will address the proposals that I have submitted, so that it will not be forgotten. I am a member of NATO, in the sense that I am against a Norwegian statement by NATO, and believe that Norway in NATO will work towards the development of a pan-European security system on the military side in which Russia is involved. What I said in the newspaper interview, I have said for at least five years, if not more. I think we need both a military and a civil component of a European security structure. The military must be maintained by NATO — there is no other option — and the civil of the OSCE. There's no other way either. And I don't think realism in putting the two together into one structure is there either. I think it's obvious to most people that we're facing completely new security challenges. I must admit that I do not see so far that we have really taken that debate into consideration in the Stortinge in Norway. To a large extent, the defence budget is still just a continuation of what was going on during the Cold War. Day Danielsen and I then disagreed on what was then reasonable. But what we should be able to agree on is that what made sense during the cold war is hardly the most important thing today. Essentially, the Norwegian defence structure continues to be the result of our campaigning for an invasion defence against a potential Soviet, later Russian, threat. I don't think anyone thinks that threat exists today as any obvious reason for our defence policy. Then we should go into a real debate about what kind of military structure we need. And I want to give the government credit for it being willing to put down a commission to discuss that very thing. But then it's just a surpomper from the Right and the Advance Party: we really don't have to. But that's exactly what we need. We now need an open and realistic debate on what the new type of security challenge in Europe demands in terms of our way of organising our own military defence.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e629	The representative Erik Solheim has taken up the suggestions he referred to. Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e634	Ten years ago, the Secretary-General of the Soviet Union took part in the 40th anniversary of the GDR. An iron carpet divided Europe into two. The relationship between East and West was marked by hostility; we had several thousand nuclear missiles aimed at each other's land. Since then, the Berlin Wall has been torn apart, the economic, cultural and social contact between people across borders has increased. We are now working together to create peace, prosperity and democracy across Europe. The unmistakable thing 10 years ago, that a warzawa pact country would become a member of NATO, has happened. Poland, the Czech Republic and Hungary are now members of NATO. Unfortunately, the joyous development of the last decade has also given us new threats to peace; the security picture is changing. Norway has a moral and political commitment to help find solutions to the new threats to peace. The UN, the OSCE and NATO are important instruments for resolving conflicts. It is very sad that we are experiencing a humanitarian and political crisis in Kosovo. After using diplomatic and economic resources to create a solution, only the military means of power remain. The left supports the attack on the Serbian aggressive party in the conflict. Our choice is between, on the one hand, instability, aggression and long-standing humanitarian disaster in the centre of Europe and, on the other, a NATO attack that restores peace, stability and security for people in areas. In these days, we have to put our trust in NATO's success in its action. In view of the major changes that are taking place and the new threats to peace that Europe is experiencing, we need to have an up-to-date picture of the security and defence policy landscape. The majority should support the Prime Minister’s initiative for a defence policy investigation. Despite new security policy issues, there are two issues that will remain. One is that there is a broad consensus that NATO has an important role to play as a peacemaker and a conflict solver. NATO has shown that when international societies have to go to the extreme and use military power to push through a peaceful solution, NATO is the instrument that works. We have experience of that from the war in Bosnia. The second condition is that Norway will continue to be an active member of NATO; NATO provides Norway with the security of a small country depending on it. The left will focus on the following issues in an investigation: How will NATO address the new threats to peace and stability in Europe? How can we ensure that NATO maintains its strength and role as a conflict-free and peacemaker?How can we build and strengthen a security regime for the whole Euro-Atlantic region?How should the Norwegian defence adapt to NATO's new tasks and role? These issues are important if we are to shed light and debate. For NATO, it is important that the alliance maintains its military force. The Alliance must continue to have the capacity for deterrence as a means of achieving political objectives of peace, prosperity and democracy. Deterrence depends on credibility, and credibility is achieved by the fact that threats to military use are actually implemented if necessary and that military actions actually produce results. In this respect, the Left does not ignore the need to also assess the usefulness of the nuclear-related sections of NATO concept. The left gives its support to the disarmament work carried out by Norway in various forums, including: in the UN. Another question about NATO's role as a conflict resolution is what legitimacy NATO should have if the alliance assumes the role of peacemakers. The left believes that any NATO operation outside NATO should be based on international law. This implies that, as a general rule, an operation must have its support in a United Nations or OSCE mandate. There must be broad European support behind NATO's commitment, precisely in order to avoid new lines of conflict across Europe. NATO needs to be able to assess independently whether the alliance should be used to create peace. In other words, the UN should not be able to oblige NATO to engage in a conflict with military forces. NATO military apparatus must be capable of being used where conflicts pose a threat of proliferation which could threaten security in a larger area. NATO should also be able to use where conflicts lead to major humanitarian crises. A security regime throughout the Euro-Atlantic region depends on the further development of the Partnership for Peace Facility. NATO must be open to several states becoming members of the alliance. The Left agrees with the Government's active support for Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania's wish for membership. An enlarged NATO could contribute to enhanced security policy cooperation in Europe. Membership of NATO can also contribute to ensuring democratic development in Europe. Transparency and good cooperation with Russia are important. It is also important that NATO maintain its interest in the areas of the north. In the long term, peace must be ensured by cooperation between countries in so many areas that any military aggression will harm the attacker more than any profit in the process of aggression. A situation of interdependence could contribute to lasting peace in the world. For Norway, we may face tough choices. The basic task of the Alliance is to provide security for the Member States. In order to ensure this core function, NATO is dependent on all Member States showing solidarity in active action, both in the form of compliance with obligations, participation in joint exercises and by making their defence available in the event of crises. If NATO takes on more of the burdensome task of creating peace outside the territory of its Member States, it will expect Norway to do the same. The willingness of our allies to engage in our neighbourhoods must be seen in the context of our commitment to other parts of Europe. We cannot rule out in the future that voluntary Norwegian sheltered soldiers are being deployed into ground forces far away from Norway. How Norwegian defence should adapt to such a task is a question we have to decide on. The left has faith that we can experience peace, prosperity and democracy in Europe and in the rest of the world. NATO has an important role to play as a defender of peace, and the Norwegian defence must actively stop the work of NATO. In order to achieve the best possible objectives, we need to debate security policy. The Left will support the Prime Minister's initiative on a defence policy investigation, which will also provide the basis for debate in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e672	Everything has been explained: I wondered a little when I saw that the Minister of Finance came before I should have the floor, but then I saw that the Minister of Foreign Affairs came afterwards, and then I get it. I was before this debate a little in doubt as to whether the background would be realistic or surreal – and it was a little more realistic than we could fear. We've had an almost surrealistic feature anyway, and it's been the Progress Party through the main insert to Mr. Gundersen. The review of Russia and Russian politicians is one side of it, one form of caricature of the Russian/Serbian relationship is another – perhaps not so serious, except that there is a large party behind this, but still serious because behind many conflicts there is a long-standing stigmatisation and demonization. There is not much to build that kind of image of hostility and demons in the international community. Now we're in front of this situation again. Then it's important that we look with two eyes, not just with one. Yugoslavia must function even after this war is over. We're not facing a people of demons, we're facing a people who are going through a war, a country that's going to be built up, and refugees – there may be Serbars or Kosovar Albanians – who will also be helped when this conflict is over. In my view, it's a very important starting point when we're up in such a situation as we're doing now. It's a dramatic step, what we have now taken. Also in the light of the principle debate, this is an important approach, that we are now entering a sovereign state, as we have done in Yugoslavia. There is no doubt that that is what has happened. The problem is not this. The problem is that there is an abuse within a state that international society cannot accept. The operation is not an internal matter. That's why it was necessary to go in. This is the starting point, at least one of them. The second is that the abuses that have occurred, the conflict that is going on, spread across borders, and so it is not just a matter for the country it is in – if one should accept abuse, which we do not. But the conflict spreads to other countries, and thus it is automatically an international issue. There is another reason why it is necessary to intervene in situations like this. At the same time, this shows that only regional solutions exist in the Balkans; there are no local solutions; it is necessary to see the different areas of conflict in context. This is the challenge, a challenge that we have to take with us also when we discuss the principal part of this in the context of the strategic concept. Because it is the internal conflicts that are spreading, that will become the most common forms of conflict in the future – and that is already the case. That's why this is just one of many examples we'll stand up to, of course, especially because it applies to the countries it's in. Internal conflicts that spread across borders are what we want to face. Then it is particularly important that we secure our privacy in international law through a stronger and more effective UN, for such interventions. But we're also going to remember that it's not that the UN is now weary in such a context. The UN has never been the dominant force in international society that you might think. During the Cold War, it was not that the major powers went and asked the United Nations for a mandate when they were to settle – on the contrary. What has to be the ambition now is to build up the United Nations to become the central institution, but we don't have to get caught up in some kind of nostalgia that's not right, simply to believe that the UN once was this central instrument that everyone bent down to, that everyone went to. That's now we're going to build it up. This form of ideal state that we had around the Kuwait situation will hardly repeat itself – it was the beginning of the new era of disorder. Now there are questions about building up institutions for the order of the new era. There, the UN must be a central institution, which we have ambitions to strengthen. What must also be a starting point in all such contexts is that when the international community intervenes, it must be through multi-national forces — as many as possible. What is important to avoid is that individual countries enter unilaterally. The mandate is important, but it also ensures as wide a resolution as possible about the actions. Because there are not only questions of military power, there are also issues of political power. And the political force gets bigger the more it is, and the wider the alliance is. It is also an important dimension to have in discussing the dangers of other situations such as the one we are currently seeing in Bosnia and Kosovo. Moreover, we must agree that NATO does not have an automatic responsibility for any group of countries other than the Member States. NATO has a security guarantee for its member countries, and not for anyone else. There must never be any doubt that the security guarantee only applies to the Member States. In the other countries, we have a partnership with, but no security guarantees. It's an important threshold that you have to make sure that you don't cross.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e693	As several speakers have pointed out in today's debate, it is quite special that this debate on the future of NATO and NATO falls on a day when we are in a completely new situation with regard to the role of NATO in Europe. There is no doubt the situation in Kosovo following developments in the last few days that occupy us and that require constant attention. I would therefore like to comment initially on it, and then address the key issues on the agenda of the NATO Summit. Despite the fact that we are in a difficult international situation that requires great attention, it is important to take the opportunity that this debate provides to a thorough review of the development of cooperation in the alliance. The objectives of NATO's involvement in the conflict in Kosovo are to put an end to violence and acts of war that are destabilising in the region, to prevent a humanitarian disaster and to facilitate a political solution. NATO's commitment to the conflict in Kosovo has always been aimed at building on the demands of the international community, as expressed by the UN Security Council and followed up by the Contact Group of the former Yugoslavia and the OSCE. The decision to give a clear signal for the use of power against Yugoslavia has been difficult, but unfortunately absolutely necessary. The decision must be viewed in the light of the extensive and long-term political and diplomatic efforts of the international community in order to achieve a solution, while at the same time meeting a lack of will in Belgrade to conclude an interim agreement and accept an international military presence to monitor it. There have been clear violations of agreed limits in Kosovo’s strength level and continued to abuse the civilian population. The target of the current military action is also to weaken the capacity for attacks and violence by Yugoslav army and police forces to cause further suffering to the population of Kosovo. We all know that we are in a serious situation. We must pay great attention to the further strategy, and this will be discussed in the alliance. It is essential in this context to avoid the spread of the conflict and the destabilisation of the region. We should be prepared that the latest developments will put a strain on relations with Russia and that it can put back established cooperation between NATO and Russia. However, I would like to stress that we have had a great deal of cooperation in the Contact Group, including Russia, and that there is agreement on the objectives, although there has sometimes been a difference in view of how we will achieve these objectives. It is therefore not right, as Mr Gundersen claims, that Russia fully supports President Milosevic in this situation. I myself have been in constant and close contact with Russia's Minister for Foreign Affairs, and we want to have contact at political level in Russia tomorrow. The recent Yugoslav offensive has resulted in an estimated 60 000 people being forced from their homes in the last month and a significant deterioration in the humanitarian situation. The phase we're now going into could lead to new refugees. We are therefore making an ongoing assessment of how we can contribute in this area. NATO cooperation is in a break-up phase. The fundamental changes that have taken place in our security policy environment in the last ten years have helped to give NATO a wider role in promoting security and stability in Europe. Today, NATO has close political and military cooperation with 25 countries within the framework of the EAPC and the Partnership for Peace, and its own cooperation arrangements with Russia and Ukraine. This cooperation is of great importance in promoting safety in Europe jointly. At the same time, NATO has been given a comprehensive responsibility for crisis management and peace operations in Europe. The alliance is involved in the conflicts in the Balkans because it is a unique tool for military crisis management. In that context, I think it is worth noting the statements of the UN Secretary-General yesterday. NATO is one of several tools complementing the UN, the OSCE and other organisations. For the Government, it is therefore important that we contribute to strengthening NATO's capacity for crisis management. The broad partnership and the new tasks related to crisis management dominate cooperation in NATO today. It is right, in our view, that these tasks are given a very central place in the updated strategic concept, which will be a major feature of the summit. The government has placed great emphasis on ensuring a balance between the continuation of NATO's traditional functions and new tasks. Collective defence, transatlantic solidarity and NATO as the Central Security Consultation Forum must be continued as the core functions of the alliance. It must continue to be the basic task of the Alliance to ensure the security of the Member States, as several speakers have pointed out here. At the same time, it is natural to highlight the new tasks related to partner cooperation and crisis management in the up-to-date strategic concept. There will equally be a distinction between the Treaty tasks and the new tasks of NATO. I am therefore somewhat surprised that the representative Petersen dismisses this as uninteresting. The government places great emphasis on the basis of international law for international peace operations. NATO's revised strategic concept will give a prominent place to peace operations, and it is therefore also natural, in our view, that the basis of international law for these is underlined. The Government assumes that the use of power must be based on international law, either in agreement with the parties, on the right to self-defence under Article 51 of the United Nations Charter or on a mandate from the Security Council under Chapter VII or Chapter VIII of the Charter. A difficult humanitarian situation may be included in the assessment by the Security Council of the existence of a threat to international peace and security that could provide for coercive measures under Chapter VII of the UN Charter. In the coming years, our own and Europe's security will face a complex risk picture. In the view of the Government, there is a clear link between security in Europe and Europe’s neighbourhoods. NATO, as our main security policy tool in the coming years, will be able to play a role in crises that may have consequences for common security interests. NATO, however, is not a global organisation. The clear focus of NATO must remain the Euro-Atlantic region. As a long-term goal, the government has a full disposal of nuclear weapons. We are actively working in NATO and other forums for such a goal and for further nuclear disarmament. However, the goal of a nuclear-free world requires secure international control. The fundamental objective is peace. NATO's fundamental task is to maintain peace and prevent attacks. The function of nuclear weapons is primarily political. They shall create uncertainty in an attacker about NATO's response to any estimate of weapons of mass destruction. Paradoxically, the risk of conflict may increase rather than decrease if this uncertainty is eliminated. Today, the possibility of NATO considering the use of nuclear weapons appears to be extremely distant. NATO does not have a first-use strategy or a first-use doctrine, but has so far not abandoned the possibility of using nuclear weapons only in extreme self-defence situations. So far, no NATO country has proposed to remove or change this in the context of the discussion on the strategic concept. However, as stated in the Prime Minister’s statement, the government believes that in the follow-up to NATO’s summit there is a need for a broad review of the alliance’s work on nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation. Norway's associated membership of the Western European Union is important. It gives us the opportunity to participate in the development of the European security and defence identity also outside NATO, and it allows us to participate in decision-making processes related to crisis management operations under European leadership. It is important that our occasion for participation be continued if the Western European Union is to be integrated into the EU. It could happen in different ways. The arrangements established for Norway and the other associated members of today’s TEU will have to depend on how today’s TEU cooperation will possibly be integrated into the EU. All countries outside the EU must be fully guaranteed the rights and influence of European security cooperation, even if the relationship between the EU, the Western Union and NATO changes. To the extent that the Western Union is involved in the EU, Norway’s cooperation with the EU in the field of security policy needs to be strengthened accordingly. There is reason to believe that the discussions on the European Security and Defence Identity will be followed up in all the three organisations mentioned in the coming period. We will take an active part in the debate on these issues in order to take full account of Norwegian interests.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e746	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e749	Of course, the war acts that have persisted for some time in Kosovo have been further stepped up by the actions that NATO has now taken. Therefore, it is also quite natural that the flow of refugees who have left Kosovo in the past has now also been reinforced as a result of NATO intervention. Of course, this leads to an additional, at least morally, responsibility for NATO countries to deal with the refugee problem. The Minister of Justice, as far as I understand, has said that it is important to concentrate efforts now on helping refugees to the neighbourhoods. My question to the Minister of Foreign Affairs will be whether he agrees with this, and whether we can expect the Government to follow this up with active assistance and support to humanitarian organisations, offering financial support to Albania and Macedonia to finance assistance in the neighbourhoods by providing funds for the purchase of food and medicine, possibly for the leasing and other equipment that may be necessary. I would like to say that from our side we are prepared to contribute to the fastest possible processing of any proposed appropriations for this purpose that may come from the Government just after Easter. Of course, we have no objection to the Government using other posts as quickly as possible now as possible to implement and provide financial assistance to address the refugee problem caused by the war in Kosovo. It is our view that we get the most use of the funds by using them in the neighbourhoods, where there are now needs that should be quickly satisfied. We would appreciate it if the Government could notify something in a very short time, either today or tomorrow, that Norway will provide significant financial assistance to Macedonia and Albania, and to any other people who also receive refugees.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e759	Let me first thank Mr Hagen's positive attitude to help the refugees in this situation that we are now facing. It is quite in line with the Government's position, and I can assure the representative Hagen that we are working actively to remedy the situation that has arisen and may have to arise. We had a meeting yesterday with UNHCR and Red Cross in Geneva to discuss the situation. They still do not have a full overview, and there is no appeal from them yet. In my conversation with the Deputy Secretary-General of UNHCR, he said that they had a lot of crisis money, so that they could deal with the acute crisis, but they would of course consider the situation continuously and make an appeal if – or when is better to say – there would be a need for it. I have also had a conversation during the morning with the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Macedonia, who is obviously concerned about the situation, and, as Mr Hagen suggests, it also has to do with the security and stability of the region to remedy the situation in the countries that are now accepting refugees. I have therefore called for an extraordinary Troika meeting in the OSCE in the morning in Vienna, and will also have an extraordinary OSCE Council meeting to discuss the overall stability of the Balkans. In this context, we will also have close contact with the UNHCR and the International Red Cross in order to assess the humanitarian situation, and I can assure the Government that, of course, it will put forward and do what is necessary to remedy the difficult humanitarian situation that we see in the Balkans today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e768	The debate on the future strategic concept may naturally disappear in the debate on Kosovo, but it has also disappeared in the absence of precision in the Prime Minister's presentation. Now I understood that the foreign minister thought there were some things I didn't take seriously. I didn't fully grasp what it was, but it's possible I'm near the question when I'm going to ask: what does it really hide from realities behind a sentence like, "At the same time, there has to be a balance between this treaty-based core of cooperation and the new fundamental tasks"? The Foreign Minister has to excuse me, but it is not very clear what kind of real conflicts are hiding behind such a formulation. But that's the kind of thing that I think we should have gone into in this debate. The debate on future tasks is often formulated with the conclusion that NATO's task for the future should not only be to defend territory but also interests. I would like to ask whether the Foreign Minister is associating himself with such a conclusion, and if so, what interests does he think it is right to defend? Will it, for example? include the defence against terrorism, which I know some have wanted to flag higher in the strategic concept?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e779	As the representative Petersen is familiar with, NATO continues to discuss the content of the strategic concept until the NATO Summit, and it is still not a final clarification. I also think it is right, as the Prime Minister has said, and as I understand it has become somewhat more in agreement with it gradually, that there is a need to discuss some of the new elements that will be included in the concept after the NATO summit. There are also a number of other NATO countries that have indicated that no final clarification can be expected until the summit. And one of the issues that will need to be discussed there is the question of interests — what is contained in the term ‘interests’. What has been the government's and my concern to talk about balance so far is that we are concerned about, as in particular. The representative of Blankenborg was concerned that the responsibility of NATO for NATO's Member States would be equal, and the responsibility of NATO for both cooperating countries and regions that are advocating Europe. It's from e.g. The United States and also the United Kingdom have expressed a desire — at least in the preparatory work on the concept — to equate the established core functions with the new tasks, and a proposal has been made to talk about ‘fundamental security tasks’ as a generic term for this. From the Norwegian side, we have been skeptical about this, not because we do not see the problems of the new threat picture, but because we are afraid that in such a development, the responsibility that is already in NATO's core functions may also be diluted. And at least we want an assurance that this won't be diluted until we join in a further interpretation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e786	There are a number of good arguments to resolve the idea of ultimately resorting to the first use of nuclear weapons. The first is that it is essential for non-proliferation work. Every time you meet a politician from India or Pakistan and ask them to refrain from new nuclear explosions, the first thing they say is, what right are you talking to, who even have the first use of nuclear weapons as an opportunity? Secondly, the first use of nuclear weapons is not essential for our relationship with Russia, or at least a factor in our relationship with Russia. And right now, when it's so important to create a better relationship with Russia, this should be one of the things you could do. Last, but not least, the first use of nuclear weapons is now completely militaryly meaningless. I thought it was immoral and wrong even during the cold war, but then there was at least a vanguard of logic in it. Many thought that Western Europe was facing a superior red army as conventional, could quickly move to Biscaybukta. And in order to prevent a sudden Soviet attack, the last instance in the line of defense was the first use of nuclear weapons. But no one thinks there's any chance we're facing anymore. Everyone knows that the West is also conventionally superior to Russia today. So this is immoral. It prevents non-proliferation, and it is militaryly pointless. And the question is, why don't we give it up? And so we're in a situation where we don't get a single argument as to why NATO still needs to stick to first use. The Minister of Foreign Affairs does not give it, the Prime Minister does not give it, the Labour Party does not give it, nobody gives it – not one argument! And then it's said that no one has proposed this before the NATO summit. Yeah, that's just formalistic right, not really right. Germany and Canada have been talking about this, Norway is doing nothing. When Norwegian politicians travel abroad, we tone the case down instead of speaking loudly and clearly about it. And that's what I'm asking that now be done.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e799	The representative of Solheim has told both here and in other contexts what major problems he has when traveling in India and Pakistan. Now the representative Solheim doesn't seem to have such a big problem expressing himself, and I can't understand that as a Norwegian politician, he has some special problems telling India and Pakistan that there is a problem with a further spread of nuclear weapons. Norway itself has refused to have nuclear weapons on Norwegian soil. It is also an important signal within NATO, but not least to countries that do not have nuclear weapons, and I think that the representative Solheim should be able to stand up very well and refer to Norway as an example right there, and tell about the great and serious consequences of a proliferation of nuclear weapons, while at the same time showing that one is not allowed to duplicate that type of rhetoric. The representative Solheim does not allow himself to be duped by rhetorical ideas, and I think it's strange that Indians and Pakistanis should have greater chances and opportunities for him than Norwegian politicians have, but it's possible we have something to learn there. But I would definitely say that he has to be able to reject this, refer to the problems and refer to just Norway's efforts for disarmament. And I also want to reject the fact that Norway has gone so much quieter in the doors than Germany and Canada. I'm a little surprised, but we might be doing a bad sales job. I have discussed these issues with my German and Canadian colleagues several times – we have had consultations at office on this issue – and there is no disagreement between Germany, Canada and Norway today that we are going to work for nuclear disarmament, but nuclear disarmament is not currently primarily about changing the expression of NATO's strategic concept, but we will also discuss the elements that go on with nuclear weapons, and, among other things, further. it has been advertised by the Prime Minister in his statement a week ago.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e806	I guess I'll be grateful for the confidence that I don't allow myself to fall too easily, but it's actually true that Norway is relatively low on the question of the first use of nuclear weapons. When Norwegian politicians travel abroad, I think, for example. on the EEA Committee on Foreign Affairs – most of the time is used to explain why it is difficult to do something about this, rather than to stand up and say that we will work for a change even if it is a long-term job. When the Foreign Affairs Committee visited the NATO headquarters last year, it was right before the German initiative, we got a clear message that this was a matter Norway would be low in and do nothing about. And then I have to ask, why can't we bring this up? I just don't understand it, because no one gives any argument as to why it's impossible, or why it's wrong. The Minister of Foreign Affairs was so funny about India, but he doesn't argue why we need this continued option. Jan Petersen said in his speech today that he perceived the Prime Minister's statement so that the government "will do nothing substantial" in this matter. I would like to ask if it is also the foreign minister's opinion, that the government will not do anything material. What I am asking for is not formal proposals before the NATO summit in one month’s time – it’s not that the matter must necessarily be dealt with formally at that meeting – but that Norway clears up our position and is gradually working towards this becoming NATO’s position, as Germany and Canada actually do.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e819	In order to repeat what I said in my first reply to Mr Solheim's first line to me, I have therefore discussed this with my Canadian and my German colleague up to several times, and we have had official discussions on these questions, so that we are keen to see how this can be continued in the discussions on NATO's strategic concept. I have also mentioned this in my conversations with Minister of Foreign Affairs Albright a while ago, and indicated that this included: is a matter of concern to the Norwegian population and to the Norwegian political environment. And we're going to work on this. I agree that this is a question that we should be looking at, but at the same time I think it's not as simple as the representative Solheim says, that not this threat of, this possibility of using nuclear weapons in self-defence can be deterrent even in our time, where unfortunately you still have nuclear weapons in many places, and perhaps nuclear weapons that are under less control today than they were a few years ago. I'm not sure it's true that NATO is immediately changing its doctrine until it's clear how other countries will deal with this. We've been concerned that disarmament is a process. Disarmament is something that must be global, it must cover all sides, and we shall continue this work, not least in the nuclear field. One of the most important things now is that the Russian Duma adopts the START II agreement, and we will continue this work instead of having discussions on language usage. It is not immaterial, I do not mean it, but I do believe that it should not overshadow the ongoing work of a broad and comprehensive nuclear disarmament.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e828	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e831	There are probably many, as has also been said before today, who will think that we have chosen a precise date to discuss NATO's role and tasks in front of the Washington Summit in one month's time. Of course, it seems difficult to debate NATO's strategic concept without mentioning the burning events, and they have also marked today's debate. Many questions are asked and should also be asked. How restrictive should we be with regard to NATO operations? Can we look at the Yugoslav action as the use of an emergency international law right? Is it enough with a lashing in the hood? 7 in the UN Charter? What is the responsibility of the international community to prevent and prevent humanitarian disasters? I think it's important to recognize that this is a field where absolute truths are hard to find. In any case, a military action must be linked to civil components and humanitarian aid. It is also claimed in the current debate that we are creating a precedent for future conflicts. But it can also be turned on the head: by letting genocide happen unhindered, we also create precedent. In any case, we must constantly ensure that the United Nations authority is not weakened in such a process. But there are and should be other issues that are also at the forefront of the NATO summit now. A theme that has been addressed in the debate, including: by the representative of Solheim, is the first-use doctrine of nuclear weapons. And here I would like to stress that I think that realities are more important than symbols. On the part of the Workers' Party, we are concerned that, after the summit, further work will be carried out on the broadest possible solution to measures that actually lead to nuclear disarmament. Because it's worrying that it seems to be an uncontrolled spread of both nuclear weapons, nuclear weapon competence and fissile material. We must achieve a nuclear disarmament process with the goal of a nuclear-free world. It is important that NATO puts itself at the forefront of such a process. In an otherwise comprehensive statement by the Prime Minister, it was strikingly little that was said about the exciting developments in Europe in the security policy field, with the development of security and defence identity. I am therefore pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs spent some time in his intervention on this. Although we are outside the EU, Norway has, as a member of NATO, been actively involved in cooperation in Europe following the fall of the Berlin Wall. In fact, if we think back over the last ten years, it has been an incredible development, where the dividing lines between different alliances and organisations have been erased, so that both NATO countries, former Warsaw countries and the non-aligned countries are now participating in European security cooperation. This is a development that will continue. At the same time, it is important that we take care of and strengthen the transatlantic ties. But NATO should and must have a role in European security policy. As I said, it is important that Norway participates in this process that is currently taking place in Europe. We must maintain our role as a full participant in European cooperation in defence and security policy and, of course, in transatlantic security cooperation. Now that NATO is marking its 50th anniversary, three former Warsaw countries have been appointed members. We shall enjoy this, and we shall warmly welcome Hungary, Poland and the Czech Republic. Enlargement also underlines what Thorbjørn Jagland said, that NATO is still a defence alliance for democracy and human rights, an alliance which must then also take on the fact that threats to peace have changed, that the fight against terrorism and organised crime is becoming important, and not least – which Blankenborg was also involved in – that a whole new challenge lies in the fact that violent conflicts are currently largely taking place within the borders of the nation state and not between countries. Finally, Norway has a very important neighbouring country, and there is no border in the world marking a greater difference in living standards than the border between Norway and Russia. It is absolutely impossible to imagine a lasting security solution in Europe without active cooperation with Russia. Russia must be involved in security cooperation, and I am pleased that several speakers here today have underlined this and have also removed some of the statements made earlier today by Mr Gundersen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e854	The importance of NATO for security in Europe has been clearly demonstrated in recent years, not only through the very difficult situation we are now in the middle of, but also through the many changes and adaptations made by the organisation to a changed security policy reality. One of the developments we now see in the outlines is a NATO that actively adapts to a European integration process, a process that in the future will also include defence and security policy. In the past, Americans have opposed their own European defence policy integration plans. However, the desire for Europeans to take greater independent responsibility for the new security challenges in Europe is now shared on both sides of the Atlantic. And as the Prime Minister himself points out, there has been a trend in this direction in recent years through the work on a European security and defence identity, the ESDI. During the French-British summit in St.Malo last December, the two countries made it clear that they wanted to fill the concept of ESDI with more concrete content. In the long term, the objective is to build autonomous defence capabilities within the EU, in order to strengthen the EU’s capacity for crisis management and conflict prevention and peacekeeping operations. Within NATO, work on the ESDI has been undertaken to facilitate the use of NATO's command structure and other infrastructure to prepare and carry out more limited operations. Norway has, as the Prime Minister said, supported this process, but at the same time Norway has made it very clear that we want the VEU to remain an independent organisation. The government itself wrote as late as the Ministry of Defence's budget proposal for 1999: ‘For Norway, it is important to emphasise the importance of the continued development of the WEU as an independent organisation with fairly balanced links with both NATO and the EU. It is in our interest that this should be done in close cooperation with NATO and the United States, so that the WEU becomes a complementary crisis management body to NATO.’ In the future, it will probably be the EU and not the WEU that connects to NATO in this way. Everything is just right for that, too. In the Amsterdam Agreement, the aim is to be able to take on Petersberg tasks written and the agreement opens up the integration of the WEU into the EU. The Prime Minister said that this would mean changes ‘in terms of our involvement in decision-making and in the implementation of crisis management under the direction of the European countries’. Yes, the change could be that we're falling between two chairs: between a European and an American pillar in NATO, where we're not in any of them. Therefore, it is very important that the Government sidesteps its EU Creatorship. Our choice is to adapt to the EU integration process. I have recorded that the Government is already in dialogue with the EU on this development, and that there is a great deal of understanding for Norwegian needs to be connected to the process. It is essential for Norway. The right also believes that Norway’s security depends on our willingness to contribute to crisis management, peacekeeping and conflict prevention work in Europe. If, in agreement with NATO, we want to strengthen the EU's role in crisis management and peacekeeping, we need to cooperate as closely as possible with the EU in this respect for security policy reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e887	At the NATO summit in Washington, the genuine defence policy dimension of alliance cooperation will also contribute greatly to putting its mark on the agenda. On the Norwegian side, we welcome this, not least as an expression of the emphasis that the Member States continue to put on maintaining effective military and defence cooperation as a prerequisite for NATO's overall work at the turn of the century. The revised strategic concept to be adopted at the summit will also constitute the overall policy guidelines for future NATO military planning. At the same time, several comprehensive initiatives have been promoted ahead of the summit, which will guide the change and further development of the military capability of the Alliance, with a view to meeting new and more complex challenges. The most important in this context is the ‘Defence Capabilities Initiative’. The initiative was first launched by the American side during the informal Minister of Defence meeting in NATO last autumn. In sum, the guidelines for military planning in the new strategic concept, and more concrete initiatives such as the DCI, will reflect a change towards smaller, more mobile and adapted forces. At the same time, greater emphasis is placed on multinational and integrated military units. These changes are a natural consequence of the general development of security policy, on which the forces of alliance may be called in the future to solve a very wide range of tasks in a fast and efficient way, often within a demanding operational environment, and to a greater extent than previously also with nations outside NATO. The development of the European security and defence policy identity must also be seen in a close context with the general work being done in NATO to further develop the military capabilities of the alliance. From the Norwegian side, efforts will be made to ensure that these processes are as complementary and reinforcing as possible, both in the context of the development of European military capabilities and in order to ensure a more appropriate transatlantic burden-sharing. From the Norwegian side, the Government has established a constructive and balanced approach to the processes of change that take place in the field of defence policy cooperation in NATO – constructive in the sense that we have taken inwards the need for change, so that the alliance can be maintained as the most central forum for security and defence policy cooperation in the Euro-Atlantic region, and balanced in such a way that change does not imply that we state what makes NATO unique and that is built up over 50 years. The special qualities of NATO cooperation, in particular reflected in the obligations laid down in the Atlantic Treaty, the political consultation procedures and integrated military cooperation, constitute a necessary prerequisite for NATO’s ability to also perform new tasks. From the Norwegian side, we have taken this approach into account, both in the context of the strategic concept and in the more concrete discussions related to the further development of the alliance's military capabilities. In the view of the Government, the traditional core functions must continue to form the basis for NATO cooperation. At the same time, new tasks must be given a significantly more prominent position. The main objective of the further development of defence structures must be to strengthen the ability to perform NATO tasks appropriately. This implies that the alliance must have a sufficient number and the type of strength required to perform the full range of tasks, all of which provide their scars and share the burden. At the same time, it remains up to each nation to establish its defence on an independent basis and to take account of national needs and tasks. In view of the development of the European Pillar of Defence and Security Policy, it will be essential that we continue to safeguard our rights as fully NATO ally. In parallel, we need to work to ensure that we fit in with the overall debate and decision-making process in this area within the EU framework. The processes of change we are now seeing will raise new challenges for the Norwegian Defence Agency. The maintenance of a modern and adapted Norwegian defence, which will continue to be the main resource in the exercise of our security and defence policy in the future, also demands a willingness to think again. Here, however, is once again the basic approach that we don't have to tear down the foundation wall to build a whole new house. What's valuable, and what's right for us, we're going to go on. At the same time, we need to be willing to look at adjustments and changes that make us better able to solve these problems rationally, both at home and outside. This is the starting point both for the work on the forthcoming Norwegian Military Notice on participation in international operations abroad and for the work to be done in the Defence Policy Selection that the Government has decided to reduce.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e904	In the debate earlier today, the parliamentary leader of the Central Party said that the time would show whether the consultation arrangements we have with the European Union would be sufficient if the Western Union were to be integrated into the European Union. I think we're all full of the truth that it'll take time. But if so, it is obvious that a consultation mechanism will not be sufficient. I recall what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his statement on European policy not so many weeks ago: ‘Nordic interests were safeguarded when the VEU was present in April 1997’ — I myself — ‘adopted that associated members should be treated in the same way as the full members in situations where VEU made use of NATO resources’. For all practical purposes, it means that Norway has the same rights as the full members of the Western Union when drawing on NATO resources. This is how we interpret it, and it has never been contradicted by the full members of the Western Union. There is something fundamentally different than a consultation mechanism and a consultation mechanism with the EU. Neither the foreign policy consultations under the EEA Agreement nor the six-monthly foreign policy talks in the light of the Stoltenberg-Genscher Agreement in 1988 can meet that need. I therefore ask representatives of the Government to speak, to comment on this. Do you really intend to ensure that we have the same rights that we now have? – And I’m talking about rights and not a natural consultation system, which is something other than having rights in a system. Furthermore, I agree with the Prime Minister's description of the many basic tasks in the field of security policy and defence policy, which he draws up in his presentation to the Stortinget. None of these descriptions really mean anything new compared to the big challenges we've been looking at after the fall of the Wall, but it's useful to get a review. There is also nothing new in this description in relation to the broad debate we have had in the United Kingdom in relation to previous statements on foreign policy, as compared to the broad debate we had years ago in relation to the long-term programme of defence, which is based on the same fundamental changes in Europe and in the transatlantic area as the Prime Minister was correctly involved. We've signaled that we're skeptical as to whether we can handle this in some particular better way by going into a party political investigation. We do not have particularly good experience from the Danish Defence Commission, which is politically complex. It is in the Government and the Storting that these questions have to be addressed and where the primary responsibility must lie. And we believe that we have mechanisms for this that the Government stands free to use. That is what underlies our position, and we would not want to get into a situation where one concentrates a debate in a body that could become a dead end to normal political processes. My last point: The representative Solheim has repeatedly called for an attitude from both the Government and the Workers' Party to the first-use issue – that is, the use of nuclear weapons as the first thing to do in a given conflict. I agree that this is an important issue and refer to what was said by the Labour Party parliamentary leader. But that's not the dominant question, it's not the doctrines of nuclear weapons that are the central one. It's the actual existence of nuclear weapons, that the arsenals are there and can be used, which is the core of the problem. And if I was a Russian or an American, I wouldn't, in a given situation, trust what neither Russians nor Americans said about first use. Because if Moscow or Washington really feel threatened and find it appropriate to ever use nuclear weapons – what God had to forbid – they do it regardless of what they have said about it in advance. Everybody knows that. And that's why this huge emphasis on first-use is a little bit crooked. It's the actual existence of nuclear weapons and what we do with them, which must be the nucleus. And I agree with both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs that this is where we need to step in to bring nuclear disarmament to the goal, let's say, and then we can see if the first-use doctrine can come on the table within a bilateral dialogue between Moscow and Washington in a way that can also work positively.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e922	The Prime Minister presented the key developments and challenges we face in NATO cooperation. In particular, there is one factor that describes the military conflicts we have seen in the last ten years, mainly internal conflicts between groups in a country or region. This presents the international community and NATO with three main challenges. These are political challenges, international law challenges and military challenges. Politically, finding a non-military solution to the conflict in question is a challenge. The international community must use every opportunity to find a peaceful solution through a political agreement in any conflict we may face. We have a challenge to international law to find a common international understanding of when it is timely to respond to what can be perceived as an internal conflict in a sovereign state. One thing is to react politically to a conflict, something quite different and much more difficult is to react militarily. It will be particularly difficult to respond militarily to a sovereign state. Such a military response therefore needs a clear constitutional basis for international law. This is particularly important in relation to the military challenge of the Stasminister's proposal for a rapid selection. Such a selection shall assess how the defence can meet the security policy challenges as they are today and are expected to remain in the years to come. Safety policy challenges are, as you know, quite different from just a few years ago. We live in an information society where, from minute to minute and from day to day, we can follow the evolution of any conflict wherever it may be in the world. This means that old military strategies need to be changed. Political and economic interaction between countries and parts of the world is so integrated that the possibility and necessity of resolving conflicts peacefully are required. The Norwegian Presidency cannot be seen independently of developments in NATO. With today's threat picture, it's relevant to see if we have the right organisation. The accession of new Member States means a significant extension of the territory covered by NATO military activities and planning. This can lead to increased strength needs in certain situations, which it would not be realistic to assume that the new Member States can fully cover themselves. If the enlargement of the Central European Alliance would require increased military effort from the Member States, this could lead to increased expectations of participation of Norwegian military departments in the NATO strength structure. It would then be natural to link Norwegian departments to the reaction strengths. The United States has a power policy specialty in NATO. With an annual defense budget of $250 billion, the country stands for almost 40 pst. of the total world military expenditure. But the United States has also had to reduce its defence budgets. They, like other NATO countries, increasingly have only money to meet current needs and less and less to long-term investment. The U.S. is no longer the outrageous horn for its smaller alliance partners as they have been in the first decades of NATO's existence. This will result in greater costs overall for Norwegian participation in the alliance and a possible change in our current balance between our international involvement and the size of our invasion defence. The Christian People's Party is ready to meet new challenges of action. The defence budget must more closely reflect changing challenges in the future and not unilaterally previous decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e944	The future role of NATO will be at the forefront of the organisation’s summit in Washington at the end of April, and the Member States are now continuing to address a number of important issues of principle. It's about setting a course for the future, finding a strategy that captures both traditional and new security needs. That goal is well established even after it is narrow in Kosovo. Now is the time for discussion difficult because the conflict is acute, and it can have an outcome that no one can imagine. Of course, the meeting will be highly coloured by what is happening right now. Experience shows that the table prisoners, as it is called, and there may be reason to fear that more rational and principled problem options come into the background. That is why I thought the Prime Minister's distribution to Stortinget, which is the real basis for the debate here today, stands out as being extra valuable. Right now, as the situation is relatively fluid, it is important to confirm, as he did on 18 March, some basic Norwegian defence and foreign policy views. During the NATO Summit, Norway will place great emphasis on further transatlantic cooperation and collective defence. We want a NATO that is to know, even in a new time. We don't want NATO to develop into a global actor. The geographical area of responsibility of NATO shall not cover more than the territory of its Member States. And NATO will engage in new tasks, for example: peacekeeping operations, or dealing with crises, must not give rise to doubt as to the existence of international law. I noticed that in this context the Prime Minister used the word ‘must’, not ‘can’ or ‘should’. To be quite precise, what the Prime Minister said, was the following: ‘The Government assumes that such use of power must be based on international law, either in agreement with the parties, on the right to self-defence under Article 51 of the United Nations Charter, or on a mandate from the Security Council under Chapter VII or Chapter VIII of the Charter.’;» In my opinion, this is the most important wording of the statement made by the Prime Minister. Since the United Nations decided to use regional organisations to carry out the required peace operations, NATO has been increasingly an up-to-date partner. However, NATO must always act on behalf of the World Organisation, not on behalf of itself. But if such a premise is founded, we see clearly that the relationship between NATO and the United Nations is well as marked by conflict as by harmony. As I said, if the criteria of the Prime Minister were so well formulated in his distribution, and as I have referred to, the peace-building work of NATO is based, everything will facilitate good and trusting cooperation between NATO and the United Nations. So it can happen anyway, it's said, that there may be a need to initiate operations directed by NATO, etc. according to humanitarian needs, as it appears that the Security Council will not authorise. So is NATO supposed to stay calm or act for its own machine? This issue has been much debated lately, and there can hardly be any doubt that there is a conflict in Kosovo that has updated the issue. It may seem that the allied position in this area is a product of the crisis that has long evolved between Yugoslavia and NATO, i.e., an example of actions paving the way for new practices, which in turn update the need to find a legal basis. The Prime Minister has so pointed out that in a situation where it may be appropriate to go outside the Security Council, it must be assessed whether there can nevertheless be a basis of international law for the use of power. In the case of Kosovo, the Government has come to the conclusion that the answer is yes, and that view is firmly anchored in the Stortinget body. Nevertheless, as little as we see the outcome of the military operations undertaken, we do not know what is going on for international law enforcement for the further development of international law on the management of the Kosovo conflict creates precedent. That the United Nations is at risk of ending up on the sidelines is obvious. Taking action on a sovereign state, a Member State of the United Nations, will also put its mark on it. And the international legal basis to which it is referred in the case of Kosovo must be seen as NATO's own understanding of the situation, which is still lacking a universal stamp. Here, a real policy assessment should be added. The United States, which is the major driving force in NATO, does not have warm feelings for the United Nations system, it comes in, among other things. In terms of the unwillingness of the United States to finance its part of the United Nations budget. In theory, it is right that NATO as a regional organisation should be at the disposal of the United Nations, but the real policy is another, precisely because the sovereign largest Member State has major global interests on its agenda. In addition to the NATO Summit, a thorough assessment of the principal aspects of this need to be made, because when NATO's new tasks are to be discussed, it is and is to be compared to the UN as a core point.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e968	The question of UN mandate for military operations is a central issue, and it is clear that the general rule should be that one should have it. If we're going to be able to move on in the direction of developing an international legal society where the law replaces the most powerful one, that's the way we have to go. At the same time, it is clear that the UN today is far from sufficiently developed to make this an absolute thing. We need a security valve when the UN fails. We have a very good example of what happened now in Macedonia. There we have had the most effective, useful and successful peace operation in the history of the United Nations, where the task was to prevent the conflict in Bosnia, etc. spread downwards. It's got a problem. And then we see that China is vetoing, for completely irrelevant reasons, against extending that mandate. It shows that we are required to have such a safety valve. When it comes to developments in Europe, the debate within Europe in the Western Union, until last year, has been marked by the fact that the development of a European defence capacity would take place within the framework of the alliance, and one would avoid duplication. This has our main line. Then the British turned 180 degrees last fall, and at a meeting last week, which I was at, where the parliamentarians of the Western Union, that is. Representatives of the national parliaments in Europe, who made their final statement to the NATO Summit, are conscious of their commitment to duplication. What we see now is that a separate European capacity is being developed, and then we have the American capacity, and here we fall out. It's going to be a very big challenge for us, as other speakers have said, that we get a full impact on this, and that we don't come to the meeting in NATO, where Europe has decided on the chamber for what they want, the Americans have decided on the chamber, and so have very little impact. What is now happening is that the security policy arguments for EU membership, which were strongly promoted in 1994, are in the process of being fully implemented. When it comes to the extension of NATO, I thought it had to be a clear and important task for us in Norway to help us get a stable northern Europe by bringing all the small countries here into a security policy structure and not being submerged like buffer states and grey zones that can pick one by one if we were to get people in the neighborhood who get power and who can figure out such things. We can only get a stable Northern Europe by all small countries joining such a structure, and I am in that context fully in agreement with what the president of the North Atlantic Assembly, Senator Roth, has said that when it comes to enlargement, we must have a pace, not a pause. When it comes to the Prime Minister's proposal for a rapid selection for the review of defence policy, I am afraid it can primarily create confusion and delay. Today, we have a system of long-term messages, which we have now every four years, every five years, going through the security policy situation, and then assessing the defence it requires us to have. We had the Willoch Commission in the early 1990s, we had a long-term message in 1993, we had one last year and we have to have the next in 2001 to deal with this house – that's only two more years. We should follow this system, it's just the time and the way to now. The only thing neat is that the government, which is free to involve whom they want and all possible ideas and things in the process until the next long-term message, should channel it into the normal process and not now establish a selection outside of the work that is going on in the Defence Research Institute, FO, etc., which will then enter the Storting during this period. It's just root, and it's probably going to lead one only to use it as a pretext to postpone decisions and push everything ahead. The NATO Summit in April will only conclude that Article 5 is final. What's involved in it, it's not going to change. What's going to be a change has to do with international operations. And as we're going to have a big message here in the house in May about international operations, that's when we have to discuss it. Any concrete follow-up can then come to the next long-term message. So I wanted to think it was a huge advantage if this government could now stick to the fixed procedures and avoid creating confusion by running new selections etc. on running bands.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e981	The Prime Minister's statement does not contain so much new in many ways. It was not expected either, and if I try to characterize the statement, it is about mid-stream, which Norwegian policy in this area usually tends to be. It's about keeping the right balance; I have a certain understanding of it. On the part of the Progress Party, it is important to bring with it ballast to Washington that Article 5 is fundamental and that it forms the core of the further work and the further challenges for NATO. We should underline that clearly and unequivocally, not least for the sake of new members, who are now part of our alliance. What we should also take care of is another part that is closely linked to Article 5, and that is the military capacity. We have seen trends that in the budgets of the Member States there has been a significant decrease. At the same time, costs and modern material have risen dramatically, and it is not only in us that there is an imbalance between operation and investment, but there is an imbalance in many ways also in other NATO countries, not least the European NATO Structural Organisation. And that makes us face a challenge related to whether Article 5 can be enforced with a capacity that makes it credible. And I would ask the Prime Minister, on behalf of the Advancement Party, to address this with the responsibility of the European countries themselves to maintain a military force that is dimensioned and balanced in order to follow up what is politically easy to say. Without such military capacity, one is also unable to follow the diplomatic features. We get a very clear reminder about it these days. And if you just end up with verbal ointments, you'll easily be forced into the knees of people who have completely different basic attitudes to what our democracies use. I think it's essential to bring it with me. It's also another side of this, and it's the ability to operate together in the future. There have also been other speakers. If we don't have the power to follow up technological developments, don't have the power to structure the European defence industry and our own small part of it, we're losing in more than one context. It is therefore important to speed up efforts to coordinate and perhaps also to increase the burden-sharing within the alliance. If we do what we're best at, we get to expect our allies to do what they're best at. And I would also ask the Prime Minister to include that which, hopefully, is a positive sign of NATO and NATO's importance for security. It can very easily be a meeting where the events that are currently going on can form the framework of NATO. It would be wrong – but also right, because NATO is demonstrating through what is now being done, solidarity. And that is solidarity, at the end of the day, about solidarity between the Member States and solidarity with people who are being attacked by a dictatorial system. Then, in his speech, the Prime Minister, strangely enough, put in a proposal to set up a kind of defence commission ‘light’, or whatever it might be. In the opinion of the Progress Party, it is absolutely unnecessary because the Stortinget has given clear assignments and leads to the next long-term message. The defense's chief command and the others who are working on this are doing it. The political and economic leadership is presented in these days through documents presented by the Government itself to the Storting and dealt with by the Defence Committee, thus drawing up the economic basis for a structure. So if you've now tried to crawl under the list and say you're going to jump over 2.20, then I have more of a serious suspicion that that might be the point. So I would strongly urge the Prime Minister to abandon the idea of such a politically appointed ‘commissarial arrangement’. If you need to stretch your policy, you should do it according to the pattern the size has set.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e995	Today's debate is taking place against the very special background and the seriousness of the implementation of NATO's air-military action against Yugoslavia last night. This is the first time that NATO is going to use arms to prevent war and a humanitarian disaster in the midst of Europe. What is now happening illustrates the scope of the balances and challenges faced by NATO at the turn of the 21st century. The importance of the issues I had in my presentation last Thursday on the debate on NATO's new strategic concept has been underlined and updated in this way – albeit in a way that we would like to see different. The decision to go to a limited military action against Yugoslavia was not easy. I said it last night and I repeat it here today: it is deeply tragic that in the heart of Europe a situation has arisen that has made it necessary for NATO to use military means to resolve the conflict in Kosovo. No NATO country has wanted such a development. However, we had to make it quite clear that the option would have been worse. As the only organisation with the capacity to back the demands of President Milosevic to accept a political solution, it would be incomprehensible whether NATO should remain a spectator of Yugoslavia's aggression against the people of Kosovo and the risk of destabilising the whole region. It is therefore my view that, in its intervention, NATO has demonstrated in practice what is the primary task and justification of existence of the alliance: to secure peace and stability. I am pleased to note that in the speeches in today's debate there is a broad consensus on this line. It is now up to President Milosevic to realise that his irresponsible policy needs to be changed, and to give clear signals that he is willing to support a political solution to the conflict, as the international community has suggested. The debate on my presentation to the NATO Summit confirms the impression that NATO's accession to the political environment is greater than ever. The new tasks related to crisis management and cooperation with partner countries will be central to NATO’s revised strategic concept, which will be a major feature of the Washington Summit. The new tasks do not distort the traditional functions of collective defence and transatlantic cooperation. There is today no direct military threat to the alliance. But NATO and Norway are facing new demands, tasks and challenges related to the major security policy changes in Europe, and NATO's active role in crisis management and peace operations, as we now see in the Balkans. The government will first provide a big message of action to strengthen our ability to participate in international operations. However, Norwegian defence is facing wider challenges. These include: related to the new risk picture in Europe, to NATO’s new tasks and the fact that several of our allies are in the process of undertaking a comprehensive reconversion of their military forces. The NATO Summit is expected to give new impetus to NATO’s defence planning with a view to strengthening the alliance’s common ability to engage in military action in the face of future challenges. Strengths need to be made more strategically mobile, efficient and durable, with greater self-protection capability. Development will have a direct impact on Norwegian defence policy, including defence tasks and ambitions. I am concerned that the Norwegian defence must be able to adapt to the changes that are now taking place in NATO and European security, and that the NATO Summit and the revised strategic concept will capture. That is why the Government sees the need for a review of defence policy. We believe that this implies a reduction in a rapid-working sample, with broad political participation. In case of suspension, it should be available within one year, in good time before the preparation of the next long-term notification. It should therefore not be replaced, but, on the contrary, be a contribution to the preparation of the long-term message. The work shall be channelled into the normal channels and will therefore neither cause confusion, root nor delay, for which the representative of Ingvald Godal expressed fear. A traditional defence commission, which we've had in the past, won't be able to work as fast as it needs in our case. Of course, such a selection should not replace ongoing political debates and decisions, whether in the field of shooting or in the allocation of funds, as Mr Petersen said, but should provide an even better basis for overall long-term planning. Sufficient financial resources must be made available to realise it at all times, without me always being able to guarantee full agreement on what is sufficient. Norway is actively participating in the work of NATO and the Western Union with a view to strengthening the security and defence policy role and responsibility for crisis management in Europe. The development of a European security and defence identity, the ESDI, is in line with European ambitions and American expectations for a better burden-sharing. Our associated membership of the WEU gives us the opportunity to participate in the processes that are also taking place outside NATO in the development of a European security identity. The role of the EU in the development of the ESDI has been given a new dimension following the British-French declaration last autumn. The signals suggest that we have to assume that the Western Union could be integrated into EU cooperation over time. The government attaches great importance to the full continuation of our rights as an associated member of the West Union and the arrangements that today give us the opportunity to participate if the Western Union is integrated into the EU. So I can confirm Thorbjørn Jaglands, Jan Petersen and Bjørn Tore Godal's expressed ambitions in this way. We are actively committed to promoting Norwegian interests in this context vis-à-vis our allies and EU countries. I also underlined this in my statement last Thursday. It is my clear impression of the feedback we have received, including from last week’s talks, that among EU countries there is a broad understanding of Norwegian needs and interests in this way. This is also in the EU's own interest, as it will ensure good cooperation between the EU and NATO, including the United States. This will be necessary if the EU is to be able to make use of NATO resources in crisis management operations under European leadership. The Government considers that any integration of the Western Union into the EU will need to be accompanied by a strengthening of the dialogue and cooperation with the EU in the field of security policy. Our starting point for this early phase of the debate is that Norway and other allied countries outside the EU should not be weakened. There is widespread excitement about NATO both in the Stortinget and in the Norwegian people. It's good to see you at the 50th anniversary of NATO. But we can't let this lead us to believe that everything can be like before. NATO needs to adapt to new challenges and tasks, a tragic example of which is the Kosovo crisis these days.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e1044	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e1047	The Prime Minister summed up in many ways a part of what was his intervention last week, and I noticed that he stressed strongly what was the Government's understanding of the need for such a defence policy selection. I hope the Prime Minister listens to what is being said by the other parties here in Stortingen today, and carefully assesses whether he still believes there is a need for such a selection. We don't need, I think, schemes that are practiced in Sweden and Denmark – with varying degrees of luck. With regard to the overall military capacity of the Alliance, not least the capacity of the European Allies, I would just like to ask the Prime Minister: will he explicitly address this in his posts and in his meetings in Washington, so that the Norwegian side addresses the need to provide a capacity that is proportionate to the intentions set out in both the old requirements of Article 5 and others? Then, in his intervention, the Prime Minister has placed great emphasis on what is happening in the development of the Western Union and the European Union and its security and defence implications. Now there are several countries, not least the new NATO members, Poland, the Czech Republic and Hungary, which face the same challenge as Norway in being a member of NATO, but not a member of the EU, and which must have the same interests as us in getting the best possible and tightest possible anchoring. Of course, Turkey is also a country in the same situation. And then my question is: will the Government and the Prime Minister take an initiative from the Norwegian side to lead such a grouping in order to achieve the best possible dialogue through a form of block-building with common interests towards the EU/VEU problem?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e1056	It is clear that the Prime Minister is listening to what is said in the debate also regarding a review of defence policy in preparation for the work on the long-term communication. But what I understand is that you have feared that this should move away from the normal forums the debate on necessary political decisions that must be taken at all times. It is, as I have stressed strongly, not at all the Government's intention. It is clear that both government and magnification and the consultative bodies we have between government and magnificence must at all times conduct the debate and take the necessary decisions, whether they be appropriations, exercises or reorganizations of defence which must be carried out at all times. We think it would be unwise to cut off the possibility of the adoption of advice one can get from a sample, composed of representatives from both the political and the professional militarized environment, and who will have the task of looking at the adjustments we have to make following decisions that will be taken at the NATO Summit and also in the strategic concept. This should therefore not replace the ongoing political debate and debate on appropriations; it should much less cut off the debate on the long-term communication, but should be involved and give a boost to this long-term communication. We think we'll be good at it. When it comes to the overall military capacity in terms of both the traditional and the new tasks, I think it should be reflected in our contributions during the summit, and note that desire. With regard to the Western Union and the EU, it is true that Røsjorde pointed out that there are several countries in the same situation as Norway: NATO member, but not EU member. However, if it would be wise to form what the representative Røsjorde called a ‘block formation’ to care for our interests, I am more uncertain about.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e1065	Let me verify two relationships. One is the consensus recorded by the Prime Minister with regard to the Norwegian position on the operations in Kosovo. I think that's all the reason why it's underlined once again. And I would like to say, as I've also said earlier today, that at this point the government has had a good communication with the Stortinget and got advice, and I think that's what I've been doing to strengthen the consensus at this point. The second thing I am pleased to confirm is that the Prime Minister's objective is that our relationship with the European Union in the security and foreign policy area must bring us into events which are at least as good as what we have in relation to the Western Union today. I think it's very important that the ambition is so clear, and I'm glad that this is the Government's ambition. So to the point where I have to admit that I'm still a little worried, to say it a little bit cautious, and it's about this defense investigation that the Prime Minister wants. I wouldn't have been worried if it hadn't been because the government just has a story where it doesn't act, and where it's terribly happy to debate and investigate, but where the decisions don't come from. I remind you that if you want to change the defense in the direction of the new problems, then there is no logic in what the government stood for here two days ago, namely to say no to a shooting and practice field. At the same time, we know that the problem in the Defence today is that you do not have enough money for the structure that has been adopted, and yet the government cut Bondevik bloodyly in the budget in the autumn. That's the background of my skepticism. Looking at the wording of the mandate, it will be further strengthened. Therefore, I would like to ask the Prime Minister the following question: can he confirm that he is now really willing to propose the defence appropriations that enable the structure already adopted by the Stortinge to be fulfilled?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e1080	As I said in my post, sufficient financial resources must be put at the disposal to implement the current defence concept in Norway at all times. It is therefore not guaranteed that the Government and the Right agree on what is sufficient resources, but that is our starting point. And a review of the defense structure after the Washington Summit doesn't mean we're going to push such issues under the carpet and assign them to a sample. I hope it calms the Right Leader. But I think it is wise to stress that a lot of decisions are likely to be taken at the NATO Summit, which will also be reflected in the strategic concept, which we need a combination of professionals and politicians to see how we are going to catch up, and which is then to be introduced into normal political channels, including. in the long-term message, to be processed in Stortinget. The government wants it to take material, but not to replace the natural political processes. This is not done for us not to act, but on the contrary for us to get a better basis for doing the right thing. In the light of what has been said in Stortinget, we should of course also be willing to look at the wording of the mandate. And I've understood the representative Jan Petersen so he's made some valuable input into it, and that's what we're going to take into account in the further work on creating such a sample. Otherwise, I note with satisfaction that the Stortinge has stood behind the Government's positions and behaviour in dealing with the Kosovo crisis. I also believe that there is a broad consensus in the UK about the ambitions we have if the Western Union is to be integrated into the European Union, namely that the rights we have today must be maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e1091	The Right Party and the Advance Party are not in the vicinity of understanding that we are moving into a new century of completely new security policy tasks. They'd rather go back to the 1980s and the situation we had, and the kind of defense we had. The whole of the Prime Minister’s posts showed this with full clarity, because in that post the traditional safety tasks in Norway were mentioned in supporting statements, while the new ones marked the whole article. And that's the same thing as for the NATO summit at the end of April, too, the new will shape the whole meeting, not the old one. Then it was just to be lacking that it should not be allowed to put down a sample to figure out what to do in this new situation. But then to what's more important, and what I want to ask the Prime Minister about. The new tasks came more and more urgent in Europe than the Prime Minister could know when he gave his presentation a week ago. We were very quickly thrown into the new kind of problem that the statement alerts. And for our part in Stortinget, we have a special responsibility for the Norwegians that we send out in this conflict or war. It's not the same thing as saying that Norwegian life is worth more than Kosovo Albanian or Serbian civilians, or others who can be lost in the Balkans, but we have a special responsibility for the Norwegians that we are prepared to use in this situation. My questions to the Prime Minister are then: What assessment of the risk is the Government making in this situation? What are the dangers for the Norwegian pilots that can be put into a conflict with Rest-Yugoslavia? How does the Government assess the resistance that can be faced in the form of the Serbian Air Force, Serbian mobile missiles and Serbian air defense? It is our responsibility to assess in particular the situation we send Norwegian young people into, and I would like to ask the Government to assess this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e1102	I believe that Solheim's representative is concerned about something important when he says that the NATO Summit and the strategic concept will very much reflect that our defence alliance is facing new tasks at the entrance of a new century. That's why it's absolutely right that there's no good answer to the issues, when we're going into a new century, just to refer to the traditional core tasks of NATO and the organizational structure that comes from it. And that's also one of the backgrounds that we think it might be wise to review before we present the next long-term message, where these issues should be reflected. But again, in order to underline and reassure those who have expressed concern today, it is not to the detriment of the ongoing political debate and the ongoing political decisions to be taken. Then it is right – and it is a heavy responsibility for us who have made the decision in the government – that we have a special responsibility for the Norwegian personnel who have been sent to operations in Kosovo, approximately. 180 persons and six F-16 aeroplanes, of which four shall be able to operate continuously and two shall be in standby mode. We're doing what's possible to ensure their safety. It will always be associated with a certain risk of deploying personnel in military operations; it shall not be underestimated. We still consider it so that the risk to our personnel is not of the greatest importance. It's a little related to the division of tasks that exists between the NATO countries in this operation, where our planes are not the most advanced in the night operations that are taking place. I can't go into this much more for natural reasons. I would not have said that there is no risk, but we do not consider the Norwegians to be exposed to the highest.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e1109	I have two questions for the Prime Minister. As for the selection that he and the Government will reduce, despite the fact that I understand that there is a majority in the Storting that sees no need for it, I would say that it is of course up to the Government itself to consider which selection the Government wants to appoint. I also understand that the Prime Minister claims that this sample will not be distorted by anything else, and that he believes he has good views on how this sample will work. Let me say that the experience of the Value Commission is not quite good in that a sample or a commission behaves the way you would have thought it would, when you reduced it. So we have no guarantee. But I would like to ask the Prime Minister to confirm that, while this sample is at work, it will not at any time be said from any member of the Government that questions or themes are being rejected in the ongoing defence policy debate, that there is a selection that is currently assessing this, i.e. that under no circumstances would it be said that we will not deal with this, we will not answer this, because it is a sample that stands with it. I would like a guarantee that no one in the government will try something like this. So to my second question. I think it was a little offensive from the Prime Minister on the question from the Chairman of the Defence Committee to seek to coordinate the discussions that would have to come between the countries that are members of NATO, but are not members of the EU, in the context of the WEU and now in the EU. I'll ask the Prime Minister to think a little bit more. Couldn't that actually make sense? At least he could check with the other NATO countries whether they are interested in acting collectively in finding good consultation, influence and participation arrangements in future cooperation in defence and security policy. I would like to know if he will at least contact the other countries to see if a joint action can be reasonable.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e1118	Now Hagen was first within the Value Commission, with which he was thought to have had poor experience. I'm not sure about that. It has already started a number of processes and projects with which we think we are going to gain good experience. That at times it can also express itself in a way that we in this Chamber and in political parties do not like, we must be prepared for that; it is part of the ongoing political debate. But with regard to the selection of the Government intends to put down as a contribution to the work of the long-term communication, I would like to confirm that, of course, it is not to be used to reject questions and proposals in the ongoing political debate and decision-making process on defence policy issues. That would be pointless. We've had defence commissions in the past that's been working for a long time than what we're thinking here. They were largely reduced by labor party governments, and they were never – as far as I remember – used to reject proposals or questions in the ongoing defence policy debate. At least we haven't thought of it in this case. It would almost also be to say the same thing as that the work on the long-term communication was to cut off such debates and questions. This is a part of working on the long-term message. Of course, it shall not cut off questions and proposals, and it shall not be misused by the Government of the sample. I can confirm that. With regard to the interests of Norway and other countries in relation to the Western Union, if it is integrated into the EU, it would be natural for Norway to contact other countries in the same category, i.e. they are NATO members but not EU members. What I doubted was the Røsjord's formulation that one would create a blockage of such countries. I do not think that is a particularly wise use of terms in relation to the EU and NATO. First of all, we need to take care of Norway's interests, but in some areas we may well be able to help coordinate with other countries in the same situation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e1127	As you know, a certain man put down the first committee, then he wanted nothing to happen. The Prime Minister has given reasons for this selection to think again. It can then be assumed that it is not possible to rethink within the apparatus of the Government, of the Department, of the Defence Research Institute, in all the institutions that are drawn into the normal process of building up a long-term message. Here the government has full freedom to retract anything, and they should do so, they should absolutely rethink. I don't think there's going to be so much new out of the NATO summit. We already know the conclusion very well today. We don't want a new one to think about - it's very nice - but get it into the usual track and the usual processes, so we can deal with it in the most orderly way possible. Now, if there's going to be a selection to work for a year, as the Prime Minister said, a conclusion should be drawn that might be discussed here in the spring. Already in the next fall, the long-term report must be able to deal with it here in spring 2001, as the Storing has decided to do. So think again, but let's get this into the normal procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e1136	Yes, we shall think again, but I had hoped that the representative Ingvald Godal would also have done so, after I have now explained that such a selection will not be a distortion to the political debate and decision-making process, and that the material from there on will be channelled into the normal processes. The conclusions of such a selection's setting I don't think we're going to present in the Stortingen for a separate debate. But as I said in my previous line, it's going to be a collection of material to be channelled into the long-term message, which normally comes to the Stortinget. Therefore, I find it a little difficult to understand why the representative Ingvald Godal is so worried about this. In the past, the right has actively contributed — yes, they had even the head of — to a defence commission whose material was involved and formed the basis for a long-term message. So why should we now be afraid of a fast-working sample whose material will also form the basis for the long-term message, which will normally be dealt with by the Government and will normally be discussed in Stortinget, I have a little problem understanding that. In fact, it may sometimes be wise to have such rapid-working samples to contribute to innovation. When the representative Ingvald Godal said there's hardly anything new coming from Washington, I think he's a little fast in the conclusion. I actually believe that there will be some decisions taken on the basis of what we know, which will put the Norwegian defence against new issues, and which it is wise that we put both politicians and professionals to catch up, and then, to further emphasize it, normally include it in the long-term communication and debate in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e1148	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e1151	In many ways, the serious situation in Kosovo has meant a crash landing after the cold war in the security policy debate. 10 years after the Wall fell, it has begun to go up for someone and everyone that we are left with one and not two superpowers, and that the superpower US is the dominant in the dominant defense alliance. It begins to rise too many that we are going to face new and different lines of conflict than before: from conflicts between states, either because of major interests or with the support of the United States and Russia on their side, to ethnic conflicts within the framework of the nation state, and we have hundreds of such conflicts around the world. The difficult situation in Kosovo will only be the beginning of the dilemmas we are going to face in the future. We lack many answers, and the greatest danger we face is to be late for preventive and peaceful initiatives, as we are 10 years late in Kosovo. In this situation, SV has a very special responsibility. Our whole history is a rebellion against the major interests, against the cold war, against the nuclear weapons being defence weapons, a struggle to get a third way and another way of thinking about defence and security policy. But after the end of the Cold War, we also have a special responsibility for a new security policy situation that requires new answers. I'm not sure if the seriousness of the situation we're facing has gone up for all of the 165 depositors, even though they know that there are concerns and doubts and the need for discussion in many parties, for example. as John Dale showed in his post. In SV, we have a prelude to take it seriously inwards. It is primarily because the majority of SV's population have accepted – last October – that the last way to force Milosevic to a possible peaceful solution was threats of power use, and because this is controversial in the SV and the SV's government disagrees with us. But it has meant that we have started a difficult debate that many other parties have not yet started. Many have called for SV in the debate that has taken place. They have called for a party that could stand on the side of peace and fight war. And I agree that in relation to the Norwegian debate, there are many of the dilemmas that should have been more profiled. However, for SV, the situation of the domestic Norwegian debate cannot be the main objective of our security policy. The situation in Kosovo is the objective and starting point of our security policy. That's what I say, even though I'm full of all my political instincts and in my political spinal reflexes when I see that the bombs fall and highly decorated American generals say things that I agree with. Let me take some of the dilemmas that SV has begun to discuss, and that I think is going to be at the centre of the security policy debates ahead. First, we're not going to be in many situations where we have the choice between war and peace. In Kosovo, the choice between war and war is between a long-standing guerrilla war with inhuman suffering on the one hand and military action on the other. The alternatives to the reports of the bombs that smack – and get it into the sofa – are desperate refugees, possible massacres and people who are driven from house to house and killed. In Rwanda, 800,000 people were killed because the international community did not do anything. And it leads me to the other, that we have the same responsibility if we don't do something like we're doing something. It also means that you're not always going to face rational negotiators that you understand the logic of, and that means that what is perceived as peaceful solutions for us will be bloody and unpeaceable for those affected. The third challenge is that very many of the international driving rules are based on international law, while emergency law and human rights considerations are far worse explored. We have too poor answers in this area. But it's a big job to try and set up the bearing sticks that can lead us forward in the difficult conflicts we're going into. And we're going to be tried many times, because major interests can be tried out 'for human rights'. For example, I noticed that some American Republicans attacked Clinton in a debate and said, "But, dear friend, what are we going to do in Kosovo?" There's no American interest there, there's not even oil there. The fourth challenge is to demand a UN mandate and to demand the widest possible international uptake of any action. This is a very significant point. It is particularly long-term and for later conflicts. The problem arises when faced with what may be inhumane balances, namely the balance between what kind of actions and actions today can form a long-term precedent and the more short-term possible human suffering. It's almost impossible to know the answer in the current situation to what's going to count the weight. That means that we are going to get into situations like this, where there is not a clear enough UN mandate for sanctions, where what hinders a clear UN mandate is not Russia's concern about the situation in Kosovo or China's concern about the situation in Kosovo, but quite another political concern on their part. In Europe – as the fifth – the main security policy challenge is to include Russia in the short term and in the long term. That's why SV, as the only party on the Stortinget, has opposed the expansion of NATO to the east. And we are amazed at the little critical attitude of the majority on the Stortinget on that matter. The major security policy challenge is to prevent the creation of a new border with Russia that can increase the level of conflict. All the perspectives in the future security policy debate must be to include Russia, both in the military and in the civil security system. The sixth, which Erik Solheim has been in many times, is the threat of the first use of nuclear weapons. I must say that I am disappointed with the Secretary of State and Bjørn Tore Godal of the Workers' Party, whom I believe has given more arguments for India and Pakistan wanting nuclear weapons than against in this debate. The seventh challenge we have is that the measures we have many times suggested, namely sanctions, either political or economic, are what we ourselves have considered to be the most peaceful. But in many cases it will mean greater suffering than military actions for those that actually apply. This is the situation, for example: in Iraq. If SV does not support US and United Kingdom bombing against Iraq, we believe it is time to re-open the debate on the economic sanctions. It looks peaceful to us when we adopt financial sanctions, but it has killed more kids in Iraq than military actions, which one is opposed to. That's why I also think it's wrong that the OSCE threw Yugoslavia out in its time – I think you had more points of contact and more opportunities to achieve results. That's also why SV says that when Turkey is a member of NATO, it has to be used to push Turkey on human rights issues, and you have to make at least the same demands on Turkey as you make to new member countries in NATO. The last and eighth challenge is that the whole defence mindset should be changed. It would simply be crucial for our young people and all who are to grow up in the future to be able to overcome the major differences in living standards and the major problems of discrimination and ethnicity that exist. It's going to be the big challenge, for example. in relation to Russia, the development of the standard of living in Russia and the development of environmental problems in Russia. Therefore, defence policy is much more than bombs and sanctions, so defence policy is an intensive international cooperation in many areas.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e1183	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e1186	I always get a little tired when Kristin Halvorsen gets tired. First of all, I agreed very much with what she said about the dilemmas and balances we have faced and are constantly facing in the situation in the Balkans. But when she then raises the question of first use to one of her most important points, she repeats, in my opinion, an error that SV has made recently. I do not underestimate the importance of this issue, and I refer to what was said by the Labour Party parliamentary leader on it in the debate. This is on the agenda and should be on the agenda as part of a continuous review of strategic doctrines. But it's the actual existence of the atomic arsenals and the size of them and how we bring this forward in the form of disarmament and extensive agreements between the big ones, which are the central ones. It's the actual existence of arsenic that's the problem, and not the doctrines they're packed into. I repeat what I said during a previous post: if it should happen, God forbid, that Moscow and Washington really see themselves threatened strategically – I hope we never get into such a situation – written statements in advance of what you do and don't do will have very little meaning. Then it's the fact that the atomic arsenals are there that matter. That's where we have to push, and I feel that the government has a right grip on the priority of these questions. I don't understand that Erik Solheim, with all his vibrant energy, can be so clearly occupied with something that, after all, is a small tab of a much larger problem complex than first-use/non-first-use.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e1192	If I interpret the Bjørn Tore Godal right, I am near to agree with him on one point. It is that, of course, as long as there are nuclear weapons at all, it will be a threat, and a threat that can be used by those countries that have nuclear weapons. But that's not just the perspective you have in this discussion. A very important point in relation to the future security policy situation in the world is to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons to new countries, and that is where the first-use doctrine comes in as a very important argument used by those countries that now want and fight to get nuclear weapons. I sincerely hope that neither the Indian government nor the Pakistani government and the embassy will read the record from the posts of Bjørn Tore Godal and the Minister for Foreign Affairs here today, because then they have the very good arguments for why they should also want nuclear weapons. Then we are about to spread nuclear weapons not only to potential more countries, but also to regimes and groupings that are, what to say, totally outside of all possible political and diplomatic dialogue. I think the Labour Party and the government parties in this case are – now I was saying an unparliamentary word – but ‘female’ might go?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e1197	I don't think either the Minister of Foreign Affairs or I will use postage to send reports of what we have said to Pakistan and India. But even if we did, I don't think that was very cause for concern. It is the fact that a good number of countries have nuclear weapons, which means that they are continuing their fight against the non-proliferation agreement, not the doctrines of these nuclear weapons. In fact, I believe that even if Moscow and Washington declared non-first-use tomorrow, the same country would declare itself in full justice when they say: these weapons must also be ours, regardless of the doctrines that follow the weapons. That's what's central, and that's where I feel that SV is inside a dead end, if they think non-first-use in itself is a solution to these huge dilemmas and challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e1202	I find it hard to understand Bjørn Tore Godal in this argument, I have to say. It is obvious that the major challenge we face is the significant disarmament and disposal of nuclear weapons. That's right. But why doesn't Bjørn Tore Godal manage to have two thoughts in his head at the same time, and especially when he's going to argue against countries that want nuclear weapons because the major powers have access to nuclear weapons? Then you just have to preach that we don't have nuclear weapons to have them for first use. If you do not use it as an argument for your own defence strategy, with what right can you criticise other countries highly and intensely to want the same thing? That's where the double morality lies. If double morals could also mean two thoughts in your head at the same time, it would have been an advantage!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e1207	There is no doubt that NATO is facing quite major and important tasks in discussing its future strategy. It shall be at the Washington Summit at the end of April. As the Prime Minister said in his statement, that debate should also include a broad review of the work on nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation. There are two important debates and relations that NATO needs to address for broad discussion. It's the further disarmament of the nuclear weapons arsenal, and that's the question of preventing the proliferation of nuclear weapons. I'm afraid that SV's focus on the first use of nuclear weapons is only suitable to remove attention from these two important issues in NATO's review of the strategic concept. No one should doubt that the long-term goal of the Government is the complete abolition of nuclear weapons. And we want through NATO to debate how this can happen. Then I think it's a pity – as I see it as Kristin Halvorsen and SV express themselves in many ways similar to what the Foreign Minister of a line from Erik Solheim tried to explain – that we should be distinguished from such a proposal that goes on the first use of nuclear weapons. I would strongly urge the SV to submit this proposal to the Government without a trial of reality, so that we do not get a distinction in a substantive vote on a proposal where the objectives are firm and united in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e1216	SV has now received two counter-conceptions about the proposal. One is from the Workers' Party, which says that this is an immaterial and meaningless proposal. The other is from the Christian People's Party, which says that they agree with the intention, and why in the world is SV fighting with this? I really think it says something about how much this proposal on the first use of nuclear weapons plagues both the Workers' Party and the Centre's parties. Of course, if you're going to make a credible effort to disarm nuclear weapons, you also have to show some muscles and an international commitment to conduct that debate. That is why SV must press the Government and the Workers' Party on these questions. If we don't, no one else will. This is why the challenge is both for the centre parties and for the Workers' Party to take this fight on the international arena. There's no need to twirl around in payroll with that. Get out of the closet!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e1221	The cord shift is over. The President will propose that those on the list of speakers below have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e1226	Let me first say that I am pleased with the Prime Minister's last answer when it came to the question of seeking a joint and coordinated negotiating arrangement with the non-EU NATO member countries. I assume that his first, somewhat reprehensible attitude was due to the fact that the head of the Defence Committee was injured to mention such cooperation as a block. When we know the government's fear of any block thinking, it's quite natural. The main point of the Government is, of course, the block neutrality. I understand that it was only that thought that seemed negative, and I have some understanding of that, but we now expect the Prime Minister to seek to contribute to a joint approach to the EU in the early stages of the negotiations. Otherwise, it is quite interesting to note the conversion of the Socialist Left Party and the former leader. In reality, in the last 20 years, SV has been wrong in almost everything they have said in the security and defence policy debate. At least I feel it this way. But now that they finally see that the NATO alliance can be a reasonable alliance, and that you actually have a military device that can be used, you're very happy with it. The NATO Alliance military power is not something that has emerged in the last couple-three years. It's actually the 50th anniversary. And one should not ignore that when we got a positive end to the cold war, it could actually be due to the activities of NATO countries in this 50-year period. In fact, it could also be that NATO had the doctrine of the first use of nuclear weapons – because one did not have the enormous conventional forces – that was the last reason why the cold war was not replaced by a hot war. So it's a little amazing now to be a witness and hear Mr. Solheim and Mrs. Halvorsen are trying to present themselves as the new security policy gurus who know the answer to everything, when they have actually been wrong in the past in most of the things they have claimed. At least it's nice that the current and former leader has finally realized that NATO is a good thing. We want them to be happy to convince their party of the equivalent. The Prime Minister said in his statement that a ‘faithful and effective defence of the Norwegian territory in the context of alliances will continue to be the most important task’. I'm glad it was fixed. But I would also like to be allowed to say that when we bring together the government's emphasis on the need for a strong defence with the experience we have had in recent budgetary discussions, it does not entirely match that, and the justification comes to the point of the next sentence in the Prime Minister's statement, where he says: ‘But because, fortunately, war in our area appears to be very unlikely today, we have to assess whether this task can be better carried out in a way that ensures a stronger integration of Norwegian defence into allied cooperation.’ I think it is a very dangerous attitude when the Prime Minister says that 'because war in our area is fortunately appearing as very unlikely today', we can do so and so. Then I would like to remind you of one of the wisest words that has been said, that whoever wants peace must be prepared for war. That today – and that was actually last week it was said – there is no danger, we must not let that lead to our building down our defence capabilities. With what is now happening in Kosovo, and the reactions of Russia, we do not know what the situation is in a week, a half year, a year or after the next presidential elections in Russia. We have to take inward that there is a very strong opposition in the Communist Party of Russia, which is much more critical of NATO and the West than the government that is sitting and president is. In addition, nationalists have Shirinovskij. We have no guarantee that in the future there will be no dramatic change in the situation in Russia, and that there will again be a situation where there is no coverage for this sentence 'because, fortunately, war in our area is appearing as very unlikely today'. It can actually be as likely as it was in the cold days of war. I have to say that there is something we should learn from the events that we now experience, is that to be secure peace one must be prepared for war. Then we can't continue, I think, this a little bit romantic, real-world talk that SV is the leading figures for, that it's a whole new situation, it's a whole new time, all that we experienced in the cold war, is gone. We have no guarantee that none of it can come back. On the contrary, there are quite a number of signs in Russia that there can be a very wrong direction in terms of instability, and that it has not been possible to carry out many of the reforms we have talked about since the Wall fell. There's more and more chaos, more and more mafia activity according to lots of reports, and then we just don't have to believe that everything's okay. I want to repeat what I have said for many, many, many years: it is only when we experience that we have had a Russia as a stable democracy for 20 years that we can consider building something down the Norwegian defence. A stable democracy means that presidents have lost in elections, and that there has been a calm takeover of those who have won the elections. We have not yet experienced that in Russia. It's when you've got it fixed over 20 years, we can say that there's little likelihood of war and threats in our neighbourhood, not before. I hope we get into a new situation, but we have no guarantee that it has occurred until we have had a stable democracy in Russia for 20 years. I think it is worrying when we experience in the conflict in Kosovo that it is said that an overall NATO does not have enough ground forces to challenge Serbia, the part of FYR that is Serbia. So, in a whole NATO, we don't have enough ground forces to think that we can do something. Then, in case NATO's defenses are being reduced, things have gone a long way. If there are changes in Russia, is it that we do not have the defence that will be necessary to keep the balance? It is clear that the existence of a military apparatus, I will at least claim, has been one of the main reasons why the Cold War got a happy end instead of going over to a hot war. Looking at the relationship between the Western NATO allies and Russia, we must not get an imbalance in this relationship. Finally, let me say that when the Progress Party also sees the need for a more European defence identity, because the development of cooperation between countries is moving in that direction, it must not be misunderstood that this must in any way weaken the transatlantic link. In fact, it's almost even more important that the cooperation we have with the United States is maintained. It will take a very long time for a European unit to act and be able to do something, because it is built up through cooperation between many countries. We have now learned in the conflicts that have occurred, that it is only when the United States assumes a responsibility and a leadership role and starts its leadership, that something is happening. That was the experience in Bosnia. That is, I suppose, the experience of what is now happening in Kosovo. Therefore, this development does not in any way have to be at the expense of the fact that the United States is a crucially integrated part of NATO. It is that for many years it will only be the United States that can guarantee the security that, among other things. Norway is very much in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e1253	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e1256	I am not going to go into any long polemics, primarily because I think the parliamentary leader of the Progress Party says, is so uninteresting. But let me just ask a simple question because we are now told that the Progress Party has been right in everything. Was the Progress Party also right when they said as late as a year and a half ago that the situation in Kosovo was so safe, the attacks were so debatable that it was perfectly okay to send any Kosovar Albanians back there? Was the Progress Party right when, as recently as a year and a half ago, they thought that the people of Kosovo, as the Progress Party now believes should become an independent state, should learn Serbian only since it was the country's own language?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e1263	Let me first tell the representative Solheim that I have absolutely not said that we have been right. I didn't say that. I didn't say it in a word I said! I just pointed out the fact that SV – and I said mostly – has made mistakes in everything they have said about security policy and defence policy issues in the last 20 years, when you look at the experience gradually. The best proof is that Erik Solheim is now trying to present himself as a guru, who is the one to support the use of military power. If the guru had power in the last 20 years, you wouldn't have had that military apparatus, it wouldn't have been NATO. It would not have been the apparatus that could be used against a dictator when it is necessary to intervene – including with Erik Solheim’s words. We didn't have it. – But we have been wrong! One more thing: There has been a repetition in a couple of debates in the Stortinget lately that one has come with quotations from one and a half years ago, two and three and four and eight years ago. The world is moving forward! A quote from a time back doesn't necessarily have to be right today. But in the case of the quotations – because that's what Erik Solheim presented – I want to ask to have them documented. I don't know any of these: ‘so safe’ and ‘so trivial’. I wanted to know where it was said, as well as the last quote, which is unknown to me.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e1271	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e1274	NATO bombing started. Norway is at war. The UN and international law are out of play once again. In front is the country that doesn't pay the bill to the United Nations, who wants to control the world on its premises, the country that has stated plans to turn NATO into a world police force and thus help destroy the world's system of international law today. NATO Norway is obedient with contributions from its own forces. Yes, so obedient is Norway that there was no sloppy criticism of any of the NATO alliance members from the Prime Minister in his speech last Thursday. There was no mention of the bombing by NATO members in the United States and England in Iraq. Thousands of lives are lost in Iraq, and Saddam strengthens his position for each bomb. International law is also out of play here. Silently, the Norwegian giant accepts the impoverishment of an entire people. Only SV and Erik Solheim have taken this up with a lot of weight. In NATO Turkey, 30,000 Kurds are killed. It's said that Öcalan went to the Western world to make a peace plan. He was arrested with the help of the United States and others, harassed and sent back to Turkey, and risks getting a completely arbitrary treatment of the military powers there. The government was at first very puzzled by its statements. NATO members may not speak one critical word against their own. So the Kurds can't count on any support from any NATO country. Amnesty has Turkey on top when it comes to human rights violations. We know that 2,000 – 3,000 Kurdish villages are destroyed. The last Sunday, 8 000 people were arrested, and we know that the torture can be hard in Turkey. But what happens? The NATO country of Turkey is allowed to continue its genocide and say harassment of the Kurds, without anything happening. The situation is marked by ‘cohesiveness’ and ‘cohesiveness’, an ironic term may be used, for it was the words used by the Prime Minister last Thursday. So that's how one treats Turkey. In principle, there is no difference between the situation in Turkey and that in Kosovo. The Kurds fight their liberation struggle and the Kosovar Albanians do the same. But the difference is very clear in the reactions of Turkey's allies. And if the Stortinget today voted down the SV's proposal to do something about this, it also speaks its clear language about this big thing. So the bombing, which I'm taking a distance from, and which has to stop, can be something completely different than the surgical procedure it's being manufactured. It's enough to remind you of the shooting in Sarajevo and the consequences. Reactions after the bombing that NATO started on its own yesterday lead to a situation where things are getting worse. Not only do the Serbars have a monthly war potential, but not least the reactions from China and Russia are frightening, seen in a historical light. And today there are reports of major anti-NATO demonstrations in Russia. The threat diplomacy ends with bombing. Let's say that if a truce is something, one has to do it. Nevertheless, this threat diplomacy should never be started. NATO pushed itself in this way into a corner. The UN and international law are constantly being out of play. So at the heart of this development is the country that doesn't pay the bill to our instrument of international law. The United States seemed to want to build up the United Nations and strengthen itself as a world police force. International law seems to be being replaced by what the United States at any time thinks is right. When Norway becomes part of the troops of an American-led world police force, the UN and international law are at stake. This is what is the leader of the right in Sweden Carl Bildts and the Swedish government's points and main foundation against NATO's own initiative. That's also my main reason.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e1291	No one in this debate has hidden the fact that the situation in Yugoslavia is very difficult – something else would have been very alarming. There is a general consensus that in these kinds of actions it must rest on a ground of international law. This is also the basis for the decisions taken. In all the allies, there have been in-depth previous debates and consultations before reaching the conclusion that an action of this kind would be relevant if Milosevic did not reach the reasonable conclusion of a negotiated agreement. The arguments behind this have been that the abuses taking place in Yugoslavia are not considered purely internal. One will put an end to violence, one will prevent a humanitarian disaster, one will prevent the spread of the conflict, and one will create a basis for a peaceful solution. The assertion by the representative of Langeland just now that the UN position has been reduced as a consequence of what is now happening has been refuted earlier in this debate. But there will be a considerable consensus that the UN must be built up to become an effective tool in relation to this type of conflict that we are now seeing, with ethnic, religious and other types of conflict within each country. The debate on these difficult issues must be continued and certainly intensified, but it would not be appropriate to conduct this debate in relation to an action that has now been decided upon and which has begun. The debate has led to the adoption of the resolution, and in that debate SV has been involved. It is important that we now stand on what has been adopted, and do not cast doubt on the alliance's positions here, so that Milosevic can expect there to be a lack of consensus in the alliance. It is essential that Belgrade should not be able to have such an expectation. I interpret Langeland as opposed to the action that is now taking place in Yugoslavia. He doesn't want it to be started. Erik Solheim, who is the main spokesman for SV in this case, has taken the opposite position and line. Kristin Halvorsen, the parliamentary leader of SV, clarified this by saying that there is an internal debate in the party, and that this was actually a quality stamp on the party, a stamp that the other parties lack. The debate is probably there in the other parties as well. But it's possible that the other parties don't see it as a significant quality stamp to stand for a difficult and complicated decision, and they're not concerned with expressing that you're actually opposed to something that you've actually agreed to. SV will try. SV tries in this case to stand up with a violent pondus, as if they're really the party that has the high morals on this issue, and they're trying to ride two horses here on this question. I don't think you should allow that, and I don't think SV is earned with that way of acting. SV has been involved in the groundwork, in the debate and in the consultations prior to the decisions taken on this matter, and that is what is essential here. That's why I feel that it makes very little sense that SV is now trying to give the impression that they have a different attitude to this very difficult question than the other parties have expressed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e1302	The scheduled time for the morning meeting is immediately running. The President will propose that the debate continue beyond regulatory time until case No. 3 has been completed. - It's bilingual.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e1305	On 27 November last year, following the statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the OSCE and the OSCE Presidency of Norway, I allowed myself to say – although there was a wide debate on this issue on the agenda – that the very boom on the engagement would be what would happen in Kosovo. I at the same time allowed myself to express concern about whether it would be possible to find a peaceful solution through the OSCE's commitment. In the same debate, the head of the Parliamentary Delegation, Tor Nymo, said: ‘OSSE is today, without any doubt, the most important instrument for preventing conflicts, ensuring the implementation of democratic elections and bridging ethnic, religious, cultural and social groups in the new democracies of Eastern Europe’.» This is not primarily meant to take a debate about who had the most or least right, or expressed the most or least concern, but it is meant as an introduction to what from my side will be an outstanding tribute to NATO. Once again it turns out that it is NATO we have to trust when peace is to be established. NATO's role in our country is unique. The role of NATO in maintaining peace in the European-Atlantic space is equally outstanding. Our willingness to live by our obligations in NATO is so far also unique. It is a great pleasure that even — at least parts of it — SV have now joined NATO’s friends in Norway. That Erik Solheim, in this connection with the eagerness of the newborn, enters with enthusiasm and impatience and will change both strategies and with one another, we take in this context with considerable calmness of mind. Even the most promising vintages need a certain maturity. In the extension of this which I will not blot out is a tribute to NATO, I allow myself to refer a little bit from the suggestion that my colleague Ingvald Godal and I have traveled, that NATO should be the almost natural candidate for the Nobel Peace Prize for 1999. In justifying this proposal, Godal and I have referred to what is NATO's idea, the high targets set for the alliance 50 years ago. I allow myself to quote: «The States Parties to this Treaty reaffirm their belief in the purposes and foundations of the United Nations Charter and their desire to live in peace with all peoples and all governments». NATO was immediately successful, and over 50 years the alliance has proved to be the central security policy instrument for the Member States in maintaining peace and freedom. In the Cold War, the countries of NATO stood in unwavering unity. No less impressive was NATO’s adaptability in the extension of the Wall’s fall and in the context of the London Summit in the spring of 1990 by developing a new strategic concept adapted to the new security policy situation in Europe. The countries that had recovered their national independence could therefore stand in line to seek membership of the alliance. The fact that the UN uses NATO, if necessary, to implement its decisions shows the high respect the alliance enjoys. We saw it again in Bosnia, when the UN got into trouble. When a negotiated solution was reached that led to the Dayton agreement, only NATO could implement the consequences of the Dayton agreement. We saw it by the extension of the IFOR and SFOR forces: NATO had the capacity, knowledge, will, ability and not least the discipline to do what the world community ordered them to do. Now NATO is doing the job again, among other things. with Norwegian participation. I'm convinced that they're going to do that job. And finally, as a small conclusion, we are now sending Norwegian forces into such operations. We can send more. I feel convinced that it is a total collapse and a collective government that is deeply pleased that a majority in the Storing had the spine to do what we had to do in setting up a shooting and training field for the army two days ago.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e1328	In my previous article, I made clear the main points of view I found reason to comment on after the debate until then. The course of the debate now at the end has not changed that, so I am not going to comment on any further summary comment, just attach some comments to one of the proposals on the representatives' tables. I will not interfere with how Stortinget deals with proposals, but if what I say on behalf of the Government may have any significance for the consideration of the proposal, I would say the following – it concerns proposal No. 2, by Erik Solheim, on human rights vis-à-vis Turkey and new NATO member countries: Now Erik Solheim and I have a common commitment to the fight for human rights in general, and I have also had the pleasure of working with Solheim on concrete issues in that context. And I'd like to assure Solheim and Stortinget that even in the case of human rights in Turkey, I personally, and also other representatives of the Government, have taken this up. And then we do it bilaterally. I myself had the opportunity to bring up with him who is now Prime Minister in Turkey, Ecevit, when he, as Minister of State, visited me last year. I can assure you that this is also being discussed in the context of NATO, and Norway is contributing to this. I agree with the intention of this proposal, namely that there should not be a double set of human rights requirements in relation to an existing Member State such as Turkey and new Member States. It shall be the same requirement and the same commitment by Norwegian and NATO, irrespective of the Member States concerned. I wanted to say this because the wording of the proposal can otherwise give the impression that there is a double set of demands, and at least it is not Norway's position that it should. And we will, both within the NATO framework and in other contexts, also bilaterally, show the same commitment and make the same demands on respect for human rights, whether it be Turkey or new NATO member countries – or other countries for that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-25.ana.ud512e1337	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox New meeting will be scheduled at 2.30 a.m. 18 for continued treatment of the current map. [[See page 2569]]
