ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e37	Before the cases are dealt with, the President will propose that today's Storting meeting be suspended at 9 p.m. 12.15 in order for representatives to be able to participate in the event at the Nobel Peace Prize ceremony in the City Hall. Furthermore, the President will propose that the meeting be resumed at 9 p.m. 15 and continues until today's map has been processed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e51	Almost 14 days ago, elections were held to the Svalbard Council. The cross-political common list was given an absolute majority. And even if 45 pst. participation in elections is not very impressive, much better than in previous elections. I guess one of the reasons why the engagement has increased could be the debate and the proposal to introduce local democracy in Longyearbyen. On 29 October of the autumn, the Government presented the long-awaited and called for the notification of Norwegian Svalbard policy. In response to the growing demand for increased local democracy in Longyearbyen, the Government proposes the establishment of a Longyearbyen Local Government, which, unlike the Svalbard Council, will have extensive decision-making responsibilities. The Foreign Affairs Committee aims to address the Svalbard report during the spring. It will be written in close cooperation with colleagues from other committees here in Stortinget and after extensive consultations with all stakeholders. In addition to the Foreign Affairs Committee, several specialised committees will visit Svalbard. I expect that the committee will be closely involved in the work of the Employment Manager in the context of the communication. Similarly, we will have to consider issues relating to growth and protection, the division of tasks between local and central democracy, housing policy, resource use, relations with other countries and, last but not least, how to exercise Norwegian sovereignty in Svalbard in the future. The proposal for the Svalbard budget for 2000 is very sober. The budget indicates that the activity in the areas covered by the Svalbard budget will be continued at about the same level as in the current year. The Foreign Affairs Committee has unanimously agreed to the Government's proposal, assuming that any financial consequences of what may be decided upon in the context of the Svalbard Communication will be included in the budget for 2001. However, because the Svalbard Council will have a central role to play in the transition to a new decision-making structure in Longyearbyen, the Committee has asked the Ministry to be responsive if the Council needs something more money than what is put at the disposal of the Council in this budget. With these brief comments, I would recommend the unanimous vote of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e70	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 1202]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e84	The President will propose that the maximum speaking time for the main speakers from each political group as well as for members of the Government be set at 10 minutes and for other speakers at 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of each party group and up to five lines with replies from members of the Government. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e91	There is little drama about the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Assistance, and it is important to see this debate in the light of the other general debates that one has on different areas within these two departments. I particularly refer to the debate we had recently on development cooperation. We have experience that the guidelines and wishes expressed in the general debates will be followed up by the ministry. So we think of it as a good way to draw up the long lines relative to the budget. As a result, the budget debates will be shorter and may include only very special circumstances. I therefore refer to the other general debates in the various areas. A region that we will return to in a short time applies to permissions specific to the Balkans. It will be dealt with in the same way over the new year. But the ministry can base the cooperation in the area of the main guidelines contained in the message as it has now been provided. The Committee would like to take some time to get into the special ratios of the section, but the main lines of the message can be used until Size has treated the message. When it comes to development cooperation, we were, as I said, in most areas there in the debate that we had a short time ago. What is mentioned in the option now shows that one ends up with what was the main impression in that debate and in the setting that led to the debate, among other things. that one considers the relationship between regional and land permits for some areas, especially when focusing on the political developments in some of the countries – Ethiopia and Eritrea are mentioned as being special, but it also applies to others – and whether one feels that political developments are unacceptable in relation to the efforts that one has made, that one can then assess a transfer to the regional bishops, possibly through the normal re-disposal at which the Grand Duchy arrives. It is also open for one to look at the other, that if political developments are far more positive than they appear, it may be possible to consider whether it is possible to give more priority to these countries. This is a signal that was clearly expressed also in the debate on development cooperation. The Balkans I was so far into, and there's little to add right at that point right here and now. When it comes to the promise that goes there, there is a need to have a flexible scheme that can be targeted according to the political needs that one might think one might have, and so one can also go into action in new areas where the political situation requires it, as in the Balkans now, and as one has entered the Palestinian territories in the past. There is one point that has emerged since the presentation of the budget, which has led to some debate, and which I will mention in this context, and that relates to the concessions to Central and Eastern Europe. It was particularly focused in the spontaneous Question Time on 1 December, where the issue of an EU enlargement was addressed, and where the Prime Minister wisely replied that an extension of the EU is a positive contribution to the development of Europe and that Norway wants to participate in it. There should be broad support for this in Stortinget. This has also been expressed very clearly by the Prime Minister during his visit to Germany a short time ago. Now it is a little unclear what Norway should do in this process, and we can certainly come back to that when the government takes a direct initiative, but in the spontaneous Question Time it was, among other things. referred to the support programme for individual Eastern European countries, including the Baltics, who are now seeking membership. The Prime Minister referred to this in his answer in Question Time. It's true that we have such a promise, and this promise has been gradually reduced in recent years. We've got a twist from the direct license to major warrants. I would like to ask the Ministry, in relation to next year's budget, to consider whether this great mandate will have an impact on different projects and on the cooperation with these countries in the long term. But there is nothing in the budget, as far as I can see, that these concessions to Central and Eastern Europe, in particular the Baltic countries, have a special connection with facilitating as much pain as possible for the enlargement of the EU. And if this is also a perspective, which politically will be most reputable from my point of view, it should also be made clearer in the budget. And maybe the whole looping of this area should be changed, and at least one should look at what kind of impact it will have on other forms of cooperation with the Baltic countries than what directly puts up capacity building in relation to the EU enlargement. The question will be whether this commitment, now in the budget, is intended to facilitate just qualification for EU membership, or whether what has been said by the Government, only applies in the long term, and that this is something to come back to later. I use this opportunity to clarify this, because the Prime Minister also says that one should base and contribute through regional schemes in Europe where Norway is active, as it is called in the answer. I'm a little bit uncertain about what that is. We have an EEA fund, which has now been adopted, which is being managed through the EU. Such schemes may show up several of them. And maybe that's the idea, but we see a little bit of it in the budget. And once again: maybe this is thinking about the future, that one looks further in time than to the next year. I raise this question because it hurt a certain uncertainty about what is actually in the budget. Among other things, in connection with the distribution of cooperation in the neighbourhood a few years ago, it was noted from some here that the time was approaching where one should look at the devices of the trajectories of Central and Eastern Europe. This has become even more topical. There is a particular dimension I would like to highlight here, which can be included in the preparation of the next year's budget, and that is the fact that all the Baltic countries, the three and Poland, which have been involved in these promises in the past, have now entered the European Union and will thus benefit from a number of other arrangements from the EU than they have previously had. This means that one should consider dividing these permits, so that one has a specific promise on Russia, perhaps one here would like to include other parts of the area that have not applied for the EU – Ukraine, Belarus – and if one wants to prioritize these areas, but that one separates the countries that have applied for the EU and assumes that these will now also enter other fund schemes, other cooperation mechanisms with financial contributions from the EU. This makes it no less important for Norway to be involved, but it may be natural to look at the arrangements for cooperation in relation to what one can withdraw from EU cooperation. On the right, there is one of the same question in a self-proposal in the vote, about a Russia strategy. This can also be reflected in such an assessment as I had here, that a separation of Russia is clearer in regional cooperation, and that one manages EU applicants separately. There is also a question that we want one to consider – a little depending on how this right-wing proposal is handled in today's debate – either as a matter of its own to the Storing through the year or that one comes back to this at the latest in the context of the next year's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e119	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e122	I share the committee leader's view that this is probably a slightly different debate because we have had so many other occasions beyond the fall to discuss foreign policy issues. From the right, we now think that there are very interesting tones from the Workers' Party just in terms of, among other things. will consider the ODA rules for authorised assistance, that they need to be reviewed in view of our own continent and parts of Asia, which are not covered by them at present. On the right, we have been very concerned that we need to have a strong commitment to our neighbourhoods, and I interpret the words of Blankenborg here today as if we are also concerned about the level of funding in the government budget proposal relating to Central and Eastern Europe. Not a lot of money is left when you subtract from what is already predisposed. That's why the Right is promoting proposals to increase this budget line, and it's at least a clear signal from our side that if the Foreign Minister finds out that this is too little money, then we're positive to it, if this comes back on another occasion during the year. My question to Blankenborg is now, on the basis of what he said, where he also made a point of the proposal from the Right, which I will address in my speech a little later in the debate: can I interpret the words of Blankenborg so that the Workers' Party will support this proposal when we come to voting today, precisely because we now see the need to differentiate and have a clearer policy on different parts of what we have previously called Central and Eastern Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e131	From the Labour Party's side, we do not complain about the promises to Central and Eastern Europe; we stand behind it and vote for it. It is similar to the situation last year, when there was a budgetary settlement between the Government Party and the Right that led to a reduction of the fees. So this is something that happens year after year, but I think one is about to say that one supports the proposal that has been put forward in the vote. The proposal from the Right thinks I have a lot of good in it, the thought there we support. As I was inside, I could imagine that one sees this in an even greater context, that Russia's strategy is being backed up by an assessment of the new situation in which a number of other countries in the region are coming. But in isolation, we support the proposal from the Right, and we are interested in righting from the Ministry and from other parties if they think it is possible to have an expanded strategy even in relation to the Baltic countries. The working party doesn't think there's anything wrong with the ODA rules. They're clear, and it's clear which country falls under them, and which country doesn't. What we're pointing out is that in some areas, there's an artificial distinction between the areas that fall within, and those that fall outside. In fact, it is largely the case in the Caucasus, where Russia does not fall within, while some of the other countries fall within. So the ODA rules aren't a problem, but it's a political question about allowing more money to Russia, and it doesn't come under traditional aid. But all the other areas in which Siri Frost Sterri is in here will be ODA-approved, if a political wish to allow money for them. There's a political question about wanting to spend more money in that area, there's no problem with the ODA rules. We think that one should be able to move some more money over to some part of these areas in the former Soviet Union, without one thus changing the main impression of Norwegian aid.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e140	I note that we can count on the accession of the Labour Party to the proposal that the Right will raise in the debate today. We are very pleased about that, and we hope that there will be a broad consensus on that proposal. However, when Blankenborg draws up the situation at the budgetary conciliation last year and says that we have a similar situation this year, there is reason to note that, when we came to the debate, we were very concerned by what had actually happened to the allocations to Central and Eastern Europe, which we then discussed. We went so far in that debate that we thought it would be necessary to add up during the year, because the settlement had had a very unfortunate outcome. That signal also brought with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and quite correctly there was a need for a certain fill. I'm a little insecure, but I mean to realize that there can be a position for the Workers' Party today, that you're worried about the outcome of the deal, which shows that you only have less than 30 million. NOK left that has not already been disposed of in advance on this item. I would also recommend Blankenborg to compare what he said now with the question of a review of the ODA rules, with what was said by the Workers' Party in the aid debate last week, in particular with the fact that the Workers' Party is of the parties that are relatively fixed on 1 pst. of GNI for assistance. So now, when Blankenborg is also talking about moving funds, not least to Russia, it might be a good idea to review the ODA rules, and this may make it easier to achieve the goal that has not yet been achieved by the Workers' Party either.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e149	I think there's a significant difference between the Labour Party and the Right when it comes to budgetary settlement. We've entered into a budgetary settlement and we're on it. We do not go into a budgetary settlement to then go into a debate afterwards and say we are sorry for the outcome of the conciliation. That's the only difference. When it comes to the ODA rules, I insist that there are no rules with which there is no problem. If it's a problem, it's a political problem. it is up to the government to find out who the money is to go to. The ODA rules and OECD rules here are clear, so it's not the problem, but it's a question of dumping and government wants to spend money in other areas and possibly book them to get out of traditional aid. That's the political issue here; it's not ODA approval itself. If we make it a problem, we're going to trace out what we want to focus on. We want to focus on the fact that there are major social and economic problems in a number of countries in the former Soviet Union, especially where there has been a dramatic fall in the standard of living. We want to focus on these to see if we can get a bigger effort in these areas. These areas fall under ODA approval, so there's no problem. The only area I said, where one can get in trouble, is the Caucasus, where Russia falls outside and south of the Russian border falls within. But there is no problem with the rules, there is a political question whether we want to spend more money on Russia or whether we should spend as much as we do today. But if we want to use them on Russia, they will not be recorded as assistance in accordance with ODA-approved rules. So the rules aren't a problem, but government and spending have to decide how much money you want to spend in the different areas, inside and outside the ODA-approved countries.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e156	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e161	The main features of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget are development aid, i.e.: approx. NOK 11 billion. The party proposing that the aid should be reduced by approx. DKK 7.5 billion. When we do not cut back, it is primarily because we support humanitarian aid and disaster aid. We also support the work of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. In addition, our alternative to state aid is free trade for developing countries' products, so that these countries can develop their business life in areas where they have natural assumptions. This will lead to a somewhat faster conversion of our own business, but if we are serious about helping developing countries, we must endure this. It is with regret that the Norwegian Government, with the support of an overwhelming majority in the United Kingdom, is pursuing a policy that goes beyond the expressed wishes of the developing countries and that reduces their ability to achieve normal market-economy growth. The most well-known move towards developing countries is the protectionist agricultural policy of Norway. Here Norway has allied itself with the EU, which is destroying the entire world market for agricultural products by means of its huge export subsidies. Due to EU export subsidies, agricultural products on the world market are so cheap that developing countries are unable to compete normally and cannot afford to pay export subsidies for their products. It is precisely the protectionist EU of Norway that is relying on in the WTO negotiations. Norway also contributes to the destruction of the world market for agricultural products by means of subsidised exports. In fact, unlike the developing countries, we can afford such subsidies. We have also been advocating the efforts of the United States and the EU to prevent children in developing countries from working on the grounds that there is a sin on their children. It is said to be so fine that social standards must be introduced into the WTO. The developing countries, on their part, do not want such social standards to be introduced. In that case, the question is what children in developing countries should do if they do not work and how families should survive financially. They don't, like us, have child welfare, cash support or subsidized kindergartens. The last unhelpful idea from Norway is to reduce oil production, resulting in an increase in oil prices. It goes worst over a number of developing countries that have little currency to pay with. The typical case of Norwegian political argument in relation to the interests of the developing world is that it is self-glorifying and hypocritical. When we do not want to buy the agricultural products of the developing countries, this is often justified by the fact that the developing countries need the food themselves, and that Norwegian production is necessary to prevent food shortages worldwide. When developing countries themselves want to sell their goods, they say they do not understand their own best. When they do not want to commit themselves to preventing child labour, we believe that they violate our high moral standards. We have little respect for the morals of our countries. Behind our own moral perception lies clear and clear trade union interests. When we reduce oil production, we rarely say that it's to increase the price. It sounds much better to say that we want to stabilise the prices. There is little talk of the interests of the developing countries in this context. It is typical for Norwegian unhelp when, in its general remarks on page 9 of the adjustment, the Workers' Party indicates that the budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre parties means that the u-help now amounts to 0,89 pst. by GNI, and that this is in line with the programme formulations of the Workers' Party on a gradual increase in aid to 1 pst. of GNI. You have not reached the stage where you are completely fixed on percentages and per million without a serious assessment of what comes out of the transfers. The Director of the Development Assistance Directorate, Tove Strand, said to the evening post the following: ‘Thefts, thefts of public funds, general mismanagement and nepotism have reached alarming heights in many of our countries of cooperation.’ Corruption permeates society from top to bottom. Politicians and bureaucrats receive gifts from companies that compete for contracts. Ordinary people have to bribe teachers, policemen, health workers and other public officials in order to obtain services for which they are legally entitled. They're the ones who don't get proper health care because someone stole the medicine and sold it on the private market. In addition to corruption, we are witnessing one devastating civil war after another. In such wars, much greater values are lost than the inputs to the countries through the aid. It would be economically impossible for these countries to purchase weapons and finance such large-scale war operations if they had not received unaided aid. A typical example is Sri Lanka, where over a number of years Norway has provided assistance that after today’s kroner will exceed a total of DKK 3 billion. In addition, the money sent by Tamil refugees working in Norway is sent home to Tamil rebels. I would venture the claim that Norway has financed the civil war in Sri Lanka for a number of years, and we will continue to do so. What characterises the development of a number of developing countries? According to Tove Strand, it is typical that resources go, not for their intended purposes, but for the private consumption of the most prosperous. Despite large transfers of money to sub-Saharan Africa over 40 years, economic growth has so far been absent. The development of health services and schools has been far from proportionate to the resources transferred. Researchers have concluded that much of the aid must have gone to the most prosperous in the countries. It is relatively easy to note that the state budget in several of these countries is largely made up of unaided funds. Time and again, we have found that developing countries are going to purchase large quantities of weapons, and that many of their leaders are getting crooked and transferring large sums to European banks. We're finding a great difference in class. Nevertheless, the big objective is to increase transfers as a percentage of GNI. Following the year after year’s reference to corruption in the developing world, corruption has finally become a major and devastating issue for the Government. Why has corruption suddenly appeared as a major problem after we have been driving u-help for so many years? A rational response to this new recognition will be to reduce the large amount of unaided appropriations so that it is possible to control the use of these funds. Instead, the Government is now taking the goal of bringing an end to corruption in Africa. Now, in Norway, we're going to end up paying so little public officials in Africa that they're referred to corruption to get the ends to meet. Public officials from Norway now have to travel to Africa in the business class and live in first-class hotels in the same way as the representatives of our relief organisations – hereafter with a special additional task, namely to end informal networks through kinship and tribalism in Africa, playing a greater role than the formal structure of our institutions, so that the money is going to be completely different from where they were going. One of the main problems here is, of course, that there is no such thing as promoting corruption as the supply of public funds, which is then to be spread through institutions. Economic growth must be created through the market, where producers are able to satisfy consumers and establish a certain surplus. In this way, economic growth is produced that does not promote corruption. So that's the aid itself and the way it's distributed, which promotes corruption in the developing world. Then it is quite illogical to increase subsidies while wanting to combat corruption. It stands for me as a completely impossible problem. It surprises me that no one in the government has addressed this and analysed this issue. It must be clear to everyone that when there is a large amount of money coming from outside, these must be distributed through those who have leading positions in society. Then it's all right for corruption, because behind this money there's no performance. In addition, u-help seems quite strong client-creating. It has also been shown that once aid has been given as a significant item in the state budgets of these countries, it does not sink.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e194	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e198	It's like the committee leader said that we've had many chances of discussing different aspects of foreign policy during the fall. That's why it's also been the representative of Gundersen and I've had this particular round several times in the past, so it's kind of repricing, but I'm going to try to angle it a little bit differently. I have now understood that the Progress Party does not want to participate in education, democracy, civil society, equality, address the environmental problem, etc. You don't agree with that. You're in a state of emergency. I accept that this is the great position of the Progress Party. At the same time, the representative, Gundersen, points to the need for these societies to operate through the market, to have market access, etc. It obviously requires that they are able to build up a system and a production that allows them to be involved in this. One side of the aid today is indebtedness; debt that the poor countries have incurred over a long period of time is being remedied, which means that they are almost unable to get on their feet economically, anyway. Is it the case that the Progress Party also withdraws from this area and believes that the developing countries will be able to cope with the debt they have incurred? Or is it that at least this can be an act that should be supported, so that these countries can be involved in what Gundersen points to?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e207	In the previous u-help debate I missed the representative’s line, because then I was on a foreign trip! It's clear that if you're going to sell goods, you're going to have to produce them. That's quite clear. I think it makes a lot of sense that when we try to build a production apparatus in developing countries, we also have to give developing countries the opportunity to export and sell the goods so that they can earn currency. I think it is awfully backwards, as has been done in many cases, to build up businesses and then prevent the sale of the products, with the consequence – although there may be many reasons – that they are due. On the issue of indebtedness, I think we should consider the developing countries as ordinary, free countries that have taken up loans, at least guaranteed loans, and normally have to be obliged to pay back. We cannot consider the developing countries in the debtor/creditor position as special countries, and when they raise a loan, they are not supposed to pay back. I think that's totally demoralizing. I actually have more sense of providing unhelp in terms of money than of looking at the developing countries as some kind of unauthorised who are not obliged to comply with agreements, even in terms of debt.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e216	We had a small dispute in the back of the rotunda about whether we should perceive Fridtjof Frank Gundersen's posts positively or not. I belong to the fraction that thinks that Gundersen's criticism is a kind of useful criticism that we need, even though I do not agree with any of the solutions. Let me do two examples. Gundersen says that if a large amount of public money is collected into a country through aid, there is a danger that it may stimulate further corruption. Yeah, that's obviously right. On the other hand, it is not true that there is something special about public funds in this area. If you look at the countries that have had the most corruption in recent years, some of them are countries where there has been a huge influx of private funds from the West. Nigeria is probably at the top of the world in corruption, and Nigeria has received very little assistance. On the other hand, almost every oil company has tried to get into Nigeria, and it has contributed to a colossal corruption. But then you get to the question of solution. The most important steps can be taken to prevent corruption both in the public and private sectors, including: contributing to the creation of a civil society, a free critical press that can reveal this kind of thing, voluntary organisations fighting to prevent corruption, and ultimately an effective state apparatus, but in an open and market-based economy. There is a failure of the Progress Party, because all these instruments that could help prevent corruption both in the public and in the private sectors are opposed – at least they will not give as much as five ears to them. And the second example: Fridtjof Frank Gundersen says quite correctly that when Norway fights intensely to raise the oil price, it's because we're selfish. That's true. We're not doing this for the sake of the Third World country. For the poor in the world, a lower oil price would be better than a high oil price. We cannot push Venezuela, Indonesia and Mexico in front of us and say that we are doing this for the sake of the Third World. Low oil prices are basically an advantage for the poorest, high oil prices are for our benefit. But it is legitimate in certain contexts to fight for the self-interests of a country. The question just becomes the Progress Party: why is it so blatant that we are going to use some of the profits, among other things? in the oil fund for relief, if necessary, to the poorest?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e227	I agree with the representative of Solheim that Nigeria is an example of high corruption based partly on western private investment. Now it's a little special country because of the great oil wealth. But I insist that the safest way to promote corruption in a country is to donate public money from outside. I also agree with what was said here, that a free critical press, free organisations, democracy and an open society is an important condition to prevent corruption. It's just that I can't understand how, with the enormous distance we have to Africa, although it travels frequently for the time being, we should have some special prerequisites for building democracy down there. We're going to export a civilian ombudsman down there, and then we're going to send Dark Eidem down there to create a national audit that can keep them in mind. I really don't have much faith in it, I think it seems tremendously dilettant. If this is to be a reason, if this is to give us confidence that the means we are sending down there will benefit the right people – this airy idea that we should be able to create a democracy down there by means of our financial resources, our eloquence and our traveler – it is something I do not believe in simply, and I think it is an obligation to say from. When it comes to oil money for the poorest, it might not have been such a bad idea.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e238	What Gundersen said was that we should regard countries as ordinary debtors who are, of course, responsible for their debt. Initially, I do not intend to declare any disagreement in that statement. At the same time, however, we are in a situation where – and at least for Norway – national legal systems have different legal institutions that allow debtors to reduce their debt so that it becomes manageable. In the case of systems of indebtedness for private individuals that have come into default where they are unable to deal with their debt, and in the case of systems of indebtedness negotiation, which means that businesses and businesses will be able to have a debt regime that allows them to deal with the debt. One result will often be that the debtor concerned is given the opportunity to develop a business that would otherwise be bankrupt. The question is, is it not in many ways the same thing that we have to introduce here also for countries? For a country that is in a situation where it is unable to deal with its debt and does not have the opportunity to develop with the debt burden it has, is it not a better system to enter into a system internationally similar to that which it has nationally, even if it has to be established and arranged in other ways because it does not even have the same legal system internationally?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e243	This I think is a pretty interesting comparison. Thus, sovereign states with voting rights in the United Nations are compared with victims of debt in the Norwegian housing market and defrauded enterprises that have to go to debt negotiations in order to avoid bankruptcy. It was a thought and a comparison, but I do not think this thinking is very well applicable to states. There is something called moratorium on interest payments, but that with regard to the debt that a country has assumed and committed to pay, it is necessary to take this client mindset, I find very difficult with regard to countries that are otherwise considered equivalent. Otherwise, I really don't have much to say about this. The comparison was quite funny.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e248	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e251	It is probably right to say that the setting of appropriations for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget next year hardly offers any surprises. The budget reflects the broad consensus that exists in key policy areas, but also the difference in assessments and priorities that we recognise from several debates on foreign policy here in this Chamber. One of the strengths of Norwegian foreign policy is the great degree of consensus on many of the main issues we are discussing in foreign policy. There are, of course, differences — not least the view of any EU membership. That, of course, is important enough, but not on the political agenda now. Norway pursues an active foreign policy and has shown through various initiatives that we are in the international picture. The Norwegian OSCE Presidency, which is now approaching its conclusion, our role in facilitating continued dialogue between the Middle East partners, our active involvement in aid policy, not least the debt cancellation plan for the poorest countries being internationally noticed, has given Norway a visible profile in international policy. So there are nuances and differences in political priorities, and with different emphasis on the different foreign policy challenges, but on this occasion I choose to stress the value of being able to agree on very important common policy challenges. The differences exist, both in the comments on the budget of the various batches and in the proposals for adjournment. I think that from the outside, the great degree of consensus on the important issues will be clearly the most prominent. Of course, this picture – and with respect for the Progress Party – includes that the Progress Party, both in the form of comments and in the form of proposals, marks the distance from this broad consensus that characterises, as I said, a large part of the vote. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to stress that within an active foreign policy that we want to pursue, there should be room both for having a strong commitment in our own neighbourhood, the Nordic countries, Europe else, and in our relationship with Russia, especially in view of the situation in North-West Russia. But this commitment must also include our relationship with the poorest countries. I believe that recent experiences with a strong commitment include: through the OSCE Presidency, while taking new initiatives to alleviate the debt burden on the poorest countries, there is evidence that there is capacity and opportunities to achieve such a level of foreign policy. The relationship with Russia has been mentioned both in the suspension and in the debate, and we know that the situation in North-West Russia is difficult in many areas. These concern both environmental problems, as regards the safeguarding of nuclear power plants, as regards health and education and the development of democratic bodies. All this affects us as a neighbouring country, and we have stressed from our side that projects funded through the cooperation programme with Central and Eastern Europe have proved to produce both concrete and positive results. We therefore find it natural to focus on the kind of measures and efforts that have been shown to be successful. However, we should not hide that there have been disappointments in the meantime, and that we have had greater expectations than the individual programmes have been able to provide us with concrete, positive results. We have also wanted a greater degree of progress in the efficient use of funds. In particular, grants for industrial development are concerned. We have also recently had a debate on development aid, based on the statement by the Minister for Development and Assistance. I therefore do not go into this very much. At that time, Stortinget was given the opportunity to discuss all the important principles of Norwegian aid policy. Of course, the draft budget reflects the main principles underlying the aid policy of the Government for its part, where the fight against poverty is a clear main priority. The Government's objective is that the bilateral assistance to Africa should be 50 pst. of all our bilateral assistance. I also want to refer to the notified action plan on human rights, where the fight against corruption has received increased attention. Intensification of the fight against corruption is important in order to ensure that the funds allocated to the various developing countries are properly managed – and we know that this is not always the case. But we also know that such an intensified struggle has an impact on the development of a democratic system. And as Erik Solheim pointed out in his reply to Fridtjof Frank Gundersen, it is through the development of civil society, through the development of democratic institutions, by encouraging a complex, diverse press, a free press, by contributing to an extension of the framework for freedom of expression, through the transparency of administration – it is through all these important measures that we can first and foremost bring this unending to life, called corruption. That is why there is no airy thought, as the representative Fridtjof Frank Gundersen came to express himself in his reply; it is a concrete measure to just bring the duck to life, which we all agree must be combated in order to reach out to those we want to help. We must then also be willing to contribute to the necessary measures. There has to be a link between what we criticise on the one hand – which I believe needs to be corrected and which prevents effective help – and what we want to contribute to financially. As in all other budgets, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget could, of course, require more funding and increased opportunities for different items. The challenges of foreign policy are diverse and significant, and Norway has set strong targets for how Norway, with its resources and opportunities, can play a role here. It's shown this year. Nevertheless, we are pleased by the Christian People's Party with the result we have achieved in the budgetary negotiations with the Labour Party, and believe that this will provide a good basis for the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e272	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e275	Having heard the representative of Steensnæs, I now understand that he recognizes that building a civil democratic society is an essential condition for avoiding corruption. But we've been aware of that for a long time. We've been aware of all these years we've been running development assistance. We have, in a way, tried to support democratic development; we just failed. What's the new thing we're about to do that will give us greater confidence that this will succeed, after reading these statements from Tove Strand? What's new in this situation? My second question concerns – when you first talk about the civilian population – the Russian colonial war in Chechnya, and the way they treat the civilian population there. With regard to aid to Russia: if Russia is to be seen as a series of different entities, can one part of Russia be helped, while the other part of Russia is engaged in a ruthless war? Is it not that when we help Russia, the Russians will have greater economic opportunities to wage war against their neighbours and states that they have oppressed for generations? I think it's a little hard to say that we're helping Russia in the north, so they're doing a war in the south. How does the representative Steensnæs view this strange paradox?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e282	What's new, asks the representative Fridtjof Frank Gundersen, about the fight against corruption? No, he may be right that there's really nothing new, because the fight against corruption has always been there as a prerequisite for us to have been able to go for an ambitious goal in terms of development aid. But we may have had some experience of how you can succeed in combating corruption. That is the total amount of experience that I think will emerge from the action plan on human rights, where the fight against corruption will be a central element, and that the sum of experience of how we have managed to combat corruption could tell us something about how the road should be continued and what measures can be effective – the prerequisites for providing assistance, the receiver, the control measures, the reports and the kind of circumstances. All of this will allow both Fridjof Frank Gundersen, me and others who are concerned with these questions, to discuss more in detail when the human rights plan is presented. Then Fridtjof Frank Gundersen got into the very difficult relationship in Chechnya and the warfare where as Norwegian foreign authorities and Norwegian political authorities have criticized very strongly. But he admits himself that this is very difficult, because at the same time as we criticize the warfare in Chechnya and with all possible means wanting to stop this warfare, we also see that we must help Russia to get on the feet of a civil society that works, both in terms of democracy and in relation to the humanitarian aid they absolutely need. This is what the EU is now discussing in the Helsinki Council of Ministers, and we see that they are also striving with the same dilemma – how to criticise what the Russians are doing now, while helping the country to democracy and development.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e290	I noticed that the representative Steensnæs already stated in his introduction that it is important that there is a broad political consensus on the important foreign policy challenges we are facing. We very much agree with that from the right. He stressed this further by pointing out that there were often only shades of difference in opinions, quite apart from the Progress Party. He finished his post with a little heart attack. He said, as is true, that there could always be desire and need for more means, but he was well pleased with the result achieved through the reconciliation with the Workers' Party. But anyway, if you connect these statements, it's very interesting to see that the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left already at the beginning of their general remarks in the budgetary position indicates the importance of a strong Norwegian commitment to Russia and North-West Russia in particular. The difference in hue between what the center parties say, and what the right says, is that we take the consequence of the reality that most of the funds spent on these areas are used up in advance by way of pre-arrangements last year. Can I interpret the Steensnæs heart sugar so that the central parties are also concerned about the level of funding here and want to give it a signal to the Government, and will they support the Right proposal in the setting, as has now been stated by the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e299	There is no doubt that there is a great need for increased appropriations in the areas of democracy construction, investment and assistance that can be used both for Russia and for the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. The right has included increased appropriations in its draft budget, that is correct, but if you go in and look at how the Right is financing the increased and more intensive aid to Central and Eastern Europe, I must say, for the Christian People's Party, that it is not tempting to follow in the Right's footsteps. On page 12 of the adjustment it is shown that Right cutters in the aid with 1,86 million. DKr, e.g. to get this done. But I fully agree with what Siri Frost Sterri said, that there is every reason to have increased attention here. For the centre parties, we have formulated objectives and underlined the importance of continuing the cooperation programme with Central and Eastern Europe, the formulations that I realized were also enthusiastic about at the Right. So there is no doubt that the direction, ambition and understanding of the importance of the work are common. I can also say to the representative Frost Sterri that the Christian People's Party, for its part, will support the minority proposal that has been tabled, proposal No. 2, where the Government is asked to explore a strategy for how investment and assistance can be used in relation to Russia. I assume that the Foreign Minister will also be able to comment further on how this can happen in that case.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e308	I listened with interest to the line between the representatives of Gundersen and Steensnæs, what was underlined about the new trends in the international development strategy, not least in the UN system and also in the cooperation on the donor side, and between the donor side and the individual developing countries, the need to use assistance to strengthen civil society, to create a free press, to political parties and not least to train new parliamentarians in new, fragile multi-party systems – and why? Is it not the case that the prerequisite for development, the precondition for getting out of poverty are democracy and pluralism? It might be possible to say that dictatorship systems have never brought any nations out of permanent poverty. At the same time, there is another prerequisite that I want to challenge Steensnæs, and that is that we need not only to get individual countries out of a bond, but also out of economic isolation. The same could be said here as for dictatorship, namely that isolation has never led any country out of permanent poverty. In this respect, I would like to refer both to the debate on the WTO and to the aid debate we had. The strategy for industrial development in the south that we have had and will debate is important. The use of micro-credit is important. A further development of the World Trade Organisation, with clear driving rules in international trade and economic transactions, is important. I would like to challenge Steensnæs on that too, because at the same time it means that Norway must also show clear commitments in such a context, not just in terms of development and assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e320	I fully agree with the representative Nybakk now said about the importance of using different instruments to develop democracy, develop a solid, well-thought-out welfare society that takes care of the weak in society, and builds up under the human rights, among others. are enshrined in international conventions, such as the UN Convention on Human Rights. It's not just through financial assistance, development aid, etc. that this can happen. This is not least the case through industrial development. It happens through a greater degree of trade. This is done by including the different countries in international networks in different areas. That also happens, I would like to stress, in the party to the party-contact that is developing more and more, and that my party has also become more involved in the last two years, where we have had party cooperation both in Eastern Europe, in the Balkans and in the Baltic States. These are important prerequisites for developing good relations, for stimulating democratic institutions and for getting the good progress both politically, socially and economically as we wish. Economic isolation is a bad solution, and it's also this that has brought us into dilemmas when we've faced a state that is coerced to try to oppress its people. We've tried boycotting, trade embargoes, etc., but we also see that this has a backside. I am absolutely in favour of using the positive instruments to stimulate the kind of development that Marit Nybakk and I fully agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e327	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e330	The size has just been through a thorough debate on Norwegian aid, where we from the Right have set out our central objectives in the area of aid. Providing a fixed objective of GNI for Norwegian aid is, as the Right also stressed in that debate, to start at a crazy end. The need for efficiency, follow-up and flexibility in aid work will not diminish. We know that providing assistance is becoming increasingly complex, we know that there are links between growing corruption and aid. We know that it is not always possible for assistance to be made available in conflict areas. If we are to judge by developments in the Balkans and in Central Africa, there is a closer link between conflict resolution and assistance. This also requires flexibility and new angles in traditional aid work. An OECD report from Bosnia-Herzegovina delivered in September this year provides examples of this. The main conclusion, based on the close follow-up of the effectiveness of assistance, shows that traditional humanitarian aid is not sufficient. There needs to be a stronger focus on the rehabilitation and restoration of infrastructure. For the EU, 49 of the 59 million will. The ECU which goes to Bosnia is targeted at rehabilitation according to this report. In particular, the United Kingdom is now actively committed to providing assistance in the form of advice on privatisation, economics and assistance for the reconstruction of administration. In the Right, through our alternative budget, we have focused on whether a broad majority of the Grand Duchy has a common objective of achieving a certain percentage of GNI in aid, is a good starting point for an aid debate. And what about using business to a greater extent? In the aid debate, Councillor Frafjord Johnson stated that a goal for Norwegian aid is to make the best use of Norwegian democratic culture in the outworking. However, the right will question whether this is not a limitation of the scope of assistance and also a limitation of the effectiveness of assistance. Why should it not be possible to take advantage of the best in Norwegian business culture outside, rather than the best in Norwegian culture of competence? In the Right's Alternative Budget, we focus on bets in our neighbourhoods. Sub-areas are important for Norway. Norway has the Presidency of the Baltic Sea Council, although this has in many ways come under the shadow of the important OSCE Presidency, and Norway was a central driver in the establishment of Barents cooperation when it was established in 1994. Here Norway has assumed an economic and political responsibility to develop strategies and ensure a close follow-up to their implementation. We know that the northern dimension has also emerged in the EU context, and that the Cologne Summit this summer has made a clear declaration of intent on a commitment to this dimension in the context of the forthcoming eastward enlargement. It is therefore important, in the view of the Right, to give concrete signals to Norwegian businesses, to non-governmental organisations and to others who want to engage in the region, that we are ready to make funds available. The right has therefore been committed to strengthening the Eastern European Action Programme by 200 million. kr. We propose that the Storting should ask the Government to develop a sound strategy for Russia's bet in the coming years. It may seem that before I have taken up this proposal, it will be possible to bring together a majority behind this. Cooperation in the Barents region has been and is a pioneer project, but we have to recognise that there is a political and economic cultural gap in the north that requires systematic and targeted action over a long period of time to balance the differences. The Russian economy has been in crisis since the collapse of the bank in August 1998. We then saw a dramatic deterioration in the energy and food situation in the northern regions, on which the Right would pay by assisting with an aid package of 80 million. kr, mainly through the Red Cross. It didn't become a majority for that time. Furthermore, the political situation in the centre is not yet clarified. The country is in strong motion, partly towards its ambitious past as a great power, partly towards a new and for most unknown future. Saying that democracy is in the cast, would perhaps be an exaggeration. Political rivalry, spontaneous privatization and power struggle characterize the image in the center. However, estimates of local democracies may be noted, but they need to establish solid relations to the centre in order to have some influence. Clearly, the dimensions of Russia itself are a challenge, and that it has a management tradition that is very different from our own. It is also clear that Russia, through its military activity in the Caucasus, expressed doubts about its ability and willingness to support fundamental human rights. This does not mean, however, that we should not provide help where necessary and that we cannot provide help to our neighbourhoods. Europe is becoming more and more important to Norway. With its budget, the right has indicated that Norway is very central to monitoring the rapid development of the European Community at the centre of the sky. The Helsinki meeting, which starts today, will address a number of issues of importance to Norway, such as the East Enlargement and European defence and security cooperation. The EFTA countries will hardly have more members in the future, but the European Union will. If enlargement to the east takes place as planned, the EU’s size will grow dramatically in the near future. On 13 October, the European Commission adopted a renewed enlargement strategy on the basis of progress reports from the candidate countries. The enlargement Commissioner then proposed to start negotiations with Group 2 countries, namely Bulgaria, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, Romania and Slovakia, in 2000. This means that a whole of 12 countries are integrated into the European Community. An increase in the proposed size will increase the EU population and area by 28 pst, respectively. and 34 pst. This is a huge challenge for the EU and will also have implications for those countries outside cooperation, not least Norway and the EEA Agreement. Defence and security cooperation within the EU is also important. For Norway, this means that we are still at risk of being marginalised in a very important area, namely security policy. It is a paradox for Norway if we remain in ‘right of opinion’ on key European issues. We cannot say anything concrete about how EU cooperation will take place in a few years' time, but we can record that there is a strong will in Europe to achieve a stronger Union, a wider community and a more ambitious community. Norway cannot dissociate itself from this development. Our northern dimension is geographically defined, with the membership of the EU of Finland and Sweden, in the larger Europe. The projects launched by Sweden and Finland in the EU on the northern dimension are projects in the interest of Norway. I bring up the proposals No. 1 and 2, from the right, which is included on the sides 17-23 of the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e358	Siri Frost Sterri has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e363	I want to address the question of the level of assistance. To the right, in debates on these issues, at the latest in the debate on the statement of assistance and to the extent that in the speech today, the Right is more concerned with the question of the quality of assistance than with the level of assistance. Now, the question is how strongly you should focus on the percentage of GNI, in and on an interesting enough debate. But when the Right continues to point out that it is the quality that is the central, and not the level, becomes a nearby question: what makes the quality of the assistance better if the level is reduced in relation to the government's structure? It seems like it's implied in the statements that come from the Right in that context. And then the real question is, what is it that by reducing the assistance by just 1.8 billion, as the Right proposes, you will have a higher quality of the assistance you then provide than the assistance you will provide when you also add 1.8 billion?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e370	I noticed that the representative Hove wants to continue the debate we had last week, where in particular it was the Right who was in the attack position in relation to both the centre parties and the Workers' Party when it came to taking as a starting point before looking at how funds should be used, that they should rise in a certain percentage of GNI. I still insist that this must be a wrong starting point. We also believe that Norway should, in particular, help and provide assistance where we have great prerequisites for providing it. Well, that's not always the case, when we see that much of the aid we're sending out goes to both relatively distant skyscrapers, and not least distant cultures, where there have also been reports that question major issues, among other things. Norwegian aid works. I agree with Mr Hove that there is not necessarily a link between quality and level. On the other hand, there's no contradiction here either. If you answer a little more blatantly, you could say that the fewer resources you have available, the more stringent the assessment will have to be made of the use of these funds. But once again, we from the Right believe that having such a fictitious number is a crazy way of attacking Norwegian aid, and we don't think at all that our responsibility for the neighbourhoods might be as important as much of what we're trying to contribute to under other skies.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e377	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e381	This year it is the budgetary agreement between the Centre Parties and the Workers' Party which lays down the overall framework for the 2000 budget for foreign and aid. The net cost framework is approx. DKr 13,1 billion, and that is an increase of well over 1 billion compared to the current year's budget. Six hundred and sixty-six million. kr of the increase refers to the aid budget, which for the year 2000 is estimated to increase to 0.89 pst. of GNI. The escalation is the first phase of a six-year escalation plan aiming at a gradual increase in aid to 1 pst. of gross national income. The position of the Foreign Affairs Committee is clearly illustrated by the main lines of Norwegian aid policy. It also gives some answers as to why a budgetary agreement between the centre parties and the right would have been difficult to achieve this autumn. In its alternative budget, the Progress Party reduces aid to poor countries by over DKK 7 billion, while the Right for its part ends up with a cut of nearly DKK 2 billion. The development policy statement that the Minister of Aid and Human Rights gave to Stortinget in the spring prompted a wide-ranging debate on Norwegian development aid in Stortinget on 2 December this year. In other words, Stortinget has already discussed the more fundamental aspects of Norwegian aid policy in the autumn. However, because the expenditure related to Norwegian aid policy accounts for such a large proportion of the total external budget, and because the suspension at the same time illustrates the aid policy contradictions in Stortinget, a reference to the parties' different approaches to the world's poverty problems is included in the discussion of the foreign and aid budget. The centre party fully shares the following committed Memorandum of Understanding from the budget proposal: ‘As one of the world’s most prosperous countries, we also have a clear commitment to go ahead with sustainable development and solidarity with the poorest countries and actively contribute to tackling environmental challenges.’ Norway is part of the international summit on aid to the poorest countries. Norway has, inter alia: has gained international recognition for the debt plan proposed in the last year's budget, and the OECD has highlighted Norway's role in the aid work of the poorest countries in a report. The fact that Norway had chaired the OSCE in 1999 has undoubtedly posed challenges to the Norwegian Government and foreign policy. The various initiatives taken and the operations that have been carried out show that the OSCE is currently playing an important role in central conflicts in Europe. Although the Presidency in a few weeks goes over to Austria, the Government announces that it will follow up its active involvement in the OSCE as a member of the so-called leadership troika. The initiative of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the UN Main Assembly to strengthen cooperation between the United Nations and the OSCE has been welcomed, including: by the Secretary-General of the United Nations. When the EU and NATO discuss international crisis management procedures, closer cooperation between the OSCE and the UN will be an interesting approach. With regard to the conflict areas in question, the Norwegian Government has announced a significant commitment to peace, stability and reconstruction in the Balkans. The Government intends to make a total financial contribution of 100 million. US dollars, or nearly 800 million. kr, for reconstruction and political stabilisation. The so-called Stabilisation Pact for South-East Europe, adopted at the Cologne ministerial meeting in June, aims to promote the development of democratic processes, political and economic cooperation, to protect minorities and to promote multi-ethnic societies and to lay the foundations for a healthy market economy. This is a question that Stortinget will have the opportunity to discuss when the election of the Foreign Affairs Committee to St.meld will take place. No 13 comes to treatment. Norway pursues an active European policy within the framework set by its five-year referendum. It is important to stress that Norwegian European policies cover more than our relationship with the European Union. The government clarifies in the proposition that Nordic cooperation is an important platform for our European policy. As the rapporteur for Nordic cooperation, I would particularly like to draw attention to the increased Nordic investment in the neighbourhoods, which today includes almost one fifth of the total budget of the Council of Ministers. Area cooperation has gradually also acquired an arctic dimension. This cooperation includes both the three Baltic countries, North-West Russia and Kaliningrad, and includes both culture, environment, democratic development and economic development as part of a common Nordic strategy for peace and stability in the Nordic neighbourhoods. ‘Non-territorial cooperation is also to be seen as a co-nordic contribution to the northern dimension of the EU’, it is stated in the Proposition. The Finnish initiative on the northern dimension has updated the need for enhanced regional cooperation both within the EU and between the EU and other European countries. It is the Nordic Council's wish that both the Nordic Council and the Council of Ministers be actively involved in the development of the Northern Dimension. The Nordic countries have gained experience, knowledge and a wide network of contacts through long-term cooperation with the neighbourhoods, making these countries have special conditions and responsibilities to contribute to the positive development of the northern regions of Europe. Against this background, the Nordic Council adopted the latest session in Stockholm, among others. to initiate a dialogue with the European Parliament on the Northern Dimension. The Nordic Council has identified the following six areas of activity to which cooperation shall be primarily linked and concentrate on: nuclear safety and energy supply in the Nordic countries, North-West Russia and the Baltic environment and health in the neighbourhoods economic growth and employment development of the fight against infrastructure crime support for the development of democracy The Nordic Council has recommended that the Nordic governments draw up a long-term action plan for the work on the northern dimension. The budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties involves minor changes to the 2000 budget in relation to the original proposal of the Centre Government. Whenever the right in the position proposes redeployments within the given budgetary framework, there is no wide-ranging debate on the budget itself, a budget that will receive broad support in voting after today's debate. In addition, the size has just discussed key aspects of Norwegian foreign policy, including: aid policy, WTO and Nordic cooperation, and as already mentioned, Norwegian aid policy towards south-east Europe will be discussed on the basis of a separate communication. In total, this contributes to the fact that the year’s treatment of the foreign and aid budget has become rather out of date. The treatment of budget revenue by the Storting. S. No 3 is also an expression of the fact that there is currently a broad political consensus on the main line of Norwegian foreign policy. In reality, today only the Progress Party deviates from this main line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e441	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e444	Let me start with the conclusion of Johan J. Jakobsen, where he a little voice breaks out that there is broad consensus in foreign policy, except for the Advancement Party. I guess he's taking a little bit of a hard time, because I'd like to say that there are maybe dividing lines between the center part and not least the right part, for example. related to European policy. When we are concerned with European policy: Jacobsen declared that European policy covers more than our relationship with the European Union, on which he spent time listing the close cooperation of the Nordic Council and Barents. But it is probably the same for the Central Party that European policy also includes our relationship with the European Union. It must certainly mean that the Central Party must be concerned that Norway’s relations are best taken care of, not least in relation to the new dimension of defence and security cooperation in the EU. I get really annoyed when I hear Jacobsen now trying to repeat arguments that were used as a fig leaf in the financial debate, that it among other things. in the field of assistance, there are so many differences between the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Centre Parties that it would in itself be impossible to reconcile with these Parties. In the previous two years, we have managed to find a settlement on the right-hand side, without causing problems for the centre parties in the area of assistance. After presenting our alternative budget proposals, we have actually been so clear that there has been no problem for Jacobsen to stand upright and boast of what has also been achieved in such a settlement in that area. Isn't it time you in the Center Party now start to be honest and say that you really don't want a deal with the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e453	To take the last one first: the Centre Party and the Centre Parties wish to cooperate with the opposition parties in the Stortinget which can at any time ensure that the policies of the Centre Parties and the Centre Government are implemented as much as possible. It's been grounded all along. When the representative Frost Sterri says we have to be honest in our description, I would say that I was. I was very careful to say that the budget option from the Right ‘on the road’ explains why it would have been difficult this autumn. I also pointed out that the representative Steensnæs of the Christian People's Party in his post underlined that the right wing for the discovery of his additions was also not particularly tempting for the Christian People's Party as the largest government party. So Siri Frost Sterri was concerned about European policy. I allowed myself to say that there is essentially a broad agreement with Norwegian foreign policy today, subject to the reservations I mentioned. As far as European policy is concerned, I have, for my part, argued that Norwegian European policy today, in relation to the EU, is based on the Norwegian people saying no to membership in 1994. That's what I have the impression that the Right and Siri Frost Sterri are really going to do. That Siri Frost Sterri in his post spent a lot of time problemating our relationship with the EU is a matter for itself, and the Right is of course in its full right to do so. When I chose to focus on Nordic cooperation, which is also an important part of Norwegian foreign policy, it was because in the proposition it is underlined that Nordic cooperation is also a platform for European cooperation. Nor should I surprise Siri Frost Sterri that I am the case rapporteur for Nordic affairs and Nordic cooperation in an area for which I am responsible in the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e460	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e463	This is initially a debate on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' budget and not necessarily a broad foreign policy debate, but there should be some coherence between the two issues. As Johan J. Jakobsen said, the main difference in this debate is between the Workers' Party, the Centre Parties and the SV on one side and the right parties on the other. It is most clearly reflected in the view of assistance. If we have faith in aid, if we think it's one of even small, but nevertheless important means of improving the situation in African, Asian and Latin American countries, it's absolutely incomprehensible why we shouldn't try to increase aid. Only if you don't believe it, it makes sense to keep going the way the Right Party and the Advance Party do. We are holding a debate in Norway on how to keep a high oil price. As we have discussed earlier in the debate, a high oil price is for our benefit. A high oil price is to the advantage of a few third-world countries of the type Indo-nesia, Mexico, Venezuela, Nigeria, but a high oil price is to the detriment of almost all poor countries. If you go into the state budget of a general African country and see how much oil imports into the country represent, you will see that it is enormously high. Countries such as Tanzania or Uganda would be able to import twice as much oil if the oil price was half. When the price of what they sell drops, and the oil price goes up, it goes without saying that this is a huge burden. We should be able to help solve this by taking a share of our increased oil surplus into more aid. It can also be done in such a way that it does not affect the Norwegian economy at all. I think it's really strange that not the Workers' Party, the Centre Parties and the SV can find a model to use the ever-increasing oil fund – it'll just be talking about microscopic parts of it – for an operation where we get up in 1 pst. by GNI, and we keep some of this outside the Norwegian economy in the usual way, so that we avoid the inflation problem. In the past, I have had interpellation with the Minister for Foreign Affairs about Asia bets and got a certain goodwill for a bet, if not as much as I and SV would like. A part of it is an increased commitment to language training. Now the Foreign Minister has promised me that he will learn Chechen, but to contribute to the fact that larger parts of the ministry and larger parts of the Norwegian community know more languages, is a crucial condition for us to get to the Asia bet that I think very many of us want. SV has had this as a repetition in its comments on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget for a number of years now. Some steps have been taken in the Ministry of Higher Language Training, but much more needs to be done in that area in my view. A major problem is that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is very dependent on data. I once said here – and the Foreign Minister didn't like it very well – that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was at rock age in terms of data. I maintain it: the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is still at rock age when it comes to data. I'll come back to it in the spring in a different context. However, it cannot continue to be such that, as is probably the service in Norway which is the easiest to see to benefit from the use of information technology, all voluntary organisations financed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are to rely on the economy in general and on the rest of the state administration. There is no other service that until those degrees operate on a 24 hour basis across the globe, which is so international, and which would benefit so much from being highly up-to-date in information technology. There must necessarily be some scattered comments, as we agree on all the main lines. Einar Steensnæs was interested in the lessons I think a lot of us have learned about the use of boycott. Many believed, based on the experience with South Africa, that boycott was an effective tool to push countries towards democracy and respect for human rights. The evolution of the 1990s, how many countries have been boycotted either by the whole world or by half the world or by the United States alone or in some other way, has shown very few examples that it has worked. Iraq is probably the worst example, where it has contributed to an unfathomable poverty – of course, together with Saddam Hussein's mercenaries in Iraq – but without in any way having managed to remove the dictatorship, nor with any certainty has it been possible to prevent the development of the weapons you are afraid of having Saddam Hussein. On several occasions, SV has asked Norway to take more steps to try to soften the boycott of Iraq. But let me mention two other countries in this context. Cuba is a country that has also tried to boycott democracy. It has been just as little successful, although the dictatorship is not as brutal in Cuba as in Baghdad. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs if Norway cannot take any new steps to soften relations with Cuba, for example. through a better diplomatic representation. Cuba is, of course, a relatively large country, a country with which we have gradually had some dialogue with regard to human rights, and it should be assessed whether an embassy can be established there, or at least an enhanced diplomatic presence. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is also going to India in the first six months. It will be a nearby opportunity to liquidate the senseless boycott that we started towards India, and that has not led to anything at all, as I can see it. But of course it has to be handled with a certain cleverness. As far as Asia is concerned, there is a new element in the position of the Foreign Affairs Committee, namely an increased investment in East Timor. I think it is important to spend money on East Timor, but it is at least as important to coordinate the assistance that will come. East Timor has only 800,000 — or perhaps between 600 000 and 800000 — inhabitants, and the willingness to help is considerable. I was at a meeting in the department, and it must be said that the aid organizations were in line to get their small contribution to East Timor. There are 40 Norwegian aid organisations in East Timor, while there are hundreds of others. So coordination and coordination between Norwegian and international organisations must be the key here. I think it is necessary that those who contribute financially to East Timor also contribute with political advice. Of course, you should always be careful, but if East Timor now chooses a path of development that means that they make themselves a Portuguese enclave in an area where everyone else speaks either Indonesian or English, it is very difficult to understand that it will contribute to development. Even more important in this context is that we are not just focusing on East Timor. The population of East Timor is 0.3 pst. of the population of Indonesia. It is clear that lasting stabilisation of democracy in Indonesia is far more important than East Timor. This does not mean that East Timor is not important, it just means that Indonesia is a key country in Southeast Asia. And if Indonesia becomes permanent democratic, it will affect ASEAN – Indonesia alone has about half the population of ASEAN countries. This will be an absolute key to the democratization of an incredibly important part of the world, also a part of the world that is in great economic progress. Finally, I would like to challenge the Minister of Foreign Affairs to say something special about his forthcoming trip to Chechnya. I think we all agree that the political marking of such a journey is important. It implies that the world community says this is not an internal matter for Russia. Human rights, the kind of promises you have and the way you wage war in the Caucasus, concern us all, and it's important that the Minister of Foreign Affairs travels and marks this. But at the same time, there is an obvious, imminent danger that this visit will have a certain kind of hostage function: you will enter only the Russian-controlled areas of Chechnya, the visit is of very short duration, and you will actually be very much caught by the leaders of the Russians making such a visit. So I'm going to ask the Foreign Minister to reflect a little bit about this, how to maintain the positiveness of marking the world community through the OSCE's interest and concern for Chechnya, without at the same time becoming a mere hostage to what the Russians want the OSCE to see.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e491	As others have pointed out, not least the chairman of the Committee, Haakon Blankenborg, today's debate is marked by the fact that during the last year the Stortinge has had a number of debates on foreign policy issues. And we know that several important issues will be debated specifically also in the near future. This means that today's debate may not be as fundamental and comprehensive as any other budget debate has been. The year we are leaving has been a very active year for Norway in the foreign policy context. Of course, Norway has had the presidency of the OSCE for a year when developments in the Balkans, in particular those related to Kosovo and Serbia, and in the Caucasus, particularly recently linked to Chechnya, have led the OSCE to play an important role in key conflict issues. The year has also shown that there is still an important and active role in the Middle East diplomacy, as the Oslo meeting in particular showed a month ago. In addition, there have been more traditional themes in the current year. So in 2000, you're going to be done with the OSCE presidency, but you're still going to be part of the leadership troika. What can be particularly important to remember is that we still need to keep the Balkans in focus – in particular Serbia and Kosovo, and I want to add Montenegro and the other parts of the former Yugoslavia, where there are still tasks to be done. However, as the chairman of the Committee said, in many ways these are questions that we will return to in the context of the consideration of the Balkan Communication. Nevertheless, perhaps the follow-up to the situation in the Balkans is one of the things that is clearly new in next year's budget compared to the past. There may otherwise be grounds for highlighting the situation in Russia. And the exact relationship with Russia may be some of what Norway is facing with greater challenges in the next year than what has been the case if not exactly this year, so at least in the next few years. There is reason to stress the importance and importance of work in the so-called neighbourhoods, where it is particularly important to highlight the environmental threat and the nuclear threat, which may stand in the way of more successful work, including in the field of industrial development in North-West Russia. In my view, when it comes to close-up issues, it is a central point to highlight the importance of fishing resources in the Barents Sea and in the North Sea. Ensuring continued management of fishing resources in the best possible way in cooperation with other countries is an important issue in Norwegian foreign policy. I would like to point out that it is my opinion that the agreement on the dirt hole we managed this year represents a good contribution to that. Then there will also be important issues related to the relationship with the EU. Norwegian policy is based on the outcome of the referendum, while we also need to adapt our policies to developments in the EU. But I think there is reason to stress that there is no fundamental change in the evolution that is taking place today in the European Union in relation to what was also taken into account when we had the 1994 referendum. For my part, it is a very important point to underline. In the Left, we have addressed questions relating to Europe, and we will start a more thorough debate on European issues. These include: is central in this context, safety issues in a broad sense, including, in addition to more traditional themes, the threat to the environment and the nuclear threat, to name a few examples. It is clear that the situation in the Balkans, and the Caucasus, if one leaves Europe, will be central here, while it is also important to address issues related to the development of the EEA Agreement, including: in relation to the existence of quite concrete plans for an enlargement of the EU which also has a relationship with the EEA Agreement. In this context, there is also reason to recall the Nordic cooperation, as Johan J. Jakobsen did in his speech. An important point for the Left in the debate on these issues is also to be able to participate and form the basis for the Government's work on a European Communication, which has been notified about about approx. One year. So a little bit about questions related to assistance. There is a strong increase in the level of assistance in the year's budget. We're moving a little bit closer to the goal set at a level of 1 pst. of GNI. At the same time, you must recognize that you have not reached as far in the context as you would like. I refer in that context to the escalation plan contained in the budget. But there may be reason to point out that, after all, there has been a significant increase in aid. In this context, it is also important to stress the importance of debt relief and the measures taken in this context have for the situation in the countries to which we provide assistance. So a few words about the question that Erik Solheim and Fridtjof Frank Gundersen have been a bit concerned about in the debate, namely the issue of oil prices. It is clear that it may be very close to seeing the concept of stabilisation of oil prices as a rewriting of increased oil prices. And to the extent that it is, there is every reason for some caution and caution. In many ways, the situation will well be that for world trade and perhaps also for the situation in many developing countries, a reasonable and stable oil price will in many ways be the best, and it's probably not at the lower level we've seen in the current year, at about $10 at the beginning of this year, or at $25, which it's been up in recent times. I get to take care of to signal exactly what is a reasonable level, but there must be a certain point here over time to contribute to a stable oil price somewhere between the lower and the upper level that I have mentioned here. Finally, the budget is only part of the overall foreign policy activity. However, it is important that the budget, alongside securing assistance funds, also provides the external service with the necessary funds for the work it does. The fact that this is a difficult and time-consuming work shows, among other things: The WTO negotiations and what we have to expect in this context. We will then assume that the budget we will adopt today is sufficient to ensure that we can pursue an active foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e519	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e522	State Councillor Lars Sponheim, also known as the leader of the Left, has stated that it is not appropriate to apply for EU membership during the forthcoming enlargement period, if I have understood him correctly. Now I am not going to make the representative Hove responsible for all the State Council Sponheim has said – for all things. But just when it comes to this question, and related to what Hove himself said, I have to ask: Is it that the Left already determines that we should be bound on this issue until 2005, no matter what development we are facing? The quantum leap we have seen in the EU has made itself an old EU opponent, as I am quite pale – that is, the single currency that was introduced, the enlargement that lies ahead of us, and the defence and security policy, to mention some of the key things. Is it the case that the Left already says that it is not appropriate to take any other position on this issue until 2005, regardless of developments?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e529	I would like to start by saying – I was a little bit into it in my post – that several of the quantum leaps mentioned by the representative, Mr Engebretsen, were actually foreseen when we had the referendum in 1994. What may have to be said to have happened is in that case two things. One is that in the case of a single currency, it has been implemented for 11 out of 15 Member States. With regard to security policy issues, we are probably about there, which in many ways was assumed to be at these times, while in the case of eastward enlargement, the situation is that it has rather slowed down compared to what was stated in 1994 by the European Union, rather than faster. But at the same time, it is clear that what is happening within the EU will have to be something Norway has to do with, and at least it is my view and the Left's view that it has made sure that we have done the most in the last two years. And it is clear that in this context, there is a need for what is related to security cooperation and the influence of Norway on it. So more directly to the question. I don't think it's hard to admit what the State Council Sponheim said at the Left National Government Meeting, which was quite correctly reproduced by Kjell Engretsen. What was left's point was that there is nothing in the development that has happened – as he sees it per. Today – which suggests any change in assessment before, if appropriate, after the extension has been completed. But I wouldn't use such a blatant wording as the one I was challenged with, "regardless of development."
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e538	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e542	Let me first express some surprise at the blatant opinion of the previous representative on the enlargement of the EU. If I have followed in a real way – and I think I do it reasonably enough on such questions – the expansion process goes significantly faster than we had foreseen even two years back. But I'll leave that case. I will also largely leave aid questions, with the reasons that have been raised here in the past from most speakers, and concentrate on specifically one area in the budget that no one else has talked about. This concerns the growing need that politicians have, in a world in transition, for good foreign policy research environments, environments that have the sufficient capacity and competence to provide the Norwegian society with the knowledge we need to participate in international relations, whether as politicians, individuals, businesses or public institutions. Such research should also help to provide a basis of knowledge for our understanding of the world around us, including a basis for decisions to be made by government and greatness. And with the process of change that is taking place, both globally and in our neighbourhoods, research environments that can address international issues are becoming even more important. Of course, there are many examples. The integration process in Europe is developing faster than we had imagined, and at least much faster than the previous representative said. We have seen how Schengen cooperation has developed, we see the dynamics of the EEA Agreement, we see Europol, we see the enlargement process, we see the new defence and security policy, etc. And this list could be done much, much longer. At least we are at this rate dependent on an active European policy to safeguard our interests. No border in the world marks a greater difference in living standards than the border between Norway and Russia. No matter what we think about Russia – and that is what shared views are about in this debate, cf. The representative of Gundersen’s previous contributions – both the EU and Russia in our neighbourhood policy will be the leading actors and precursors in the foreseeable future. Globalisation, increased world trade, poverty problems and the proliferation of nuclear weapons and nuclear material reinforce the need for sound research environments in the international field. I also think that we need research environments with different profiles and different approaches. It's e.g. a major difference between the Norwegian Institute for Foreign Affairs, the Institute for Peace Research and the European programme. We all need them. It may be good to have institutes that carry out traditional and long-term research, but we will also need research and information sources for periods of time. I would therefore ask the Government to go through this issue, including the responsibilities of the individual institutes. Here I know that there are several departments involved, so I stress that it is the government that has to go through this problem. Let me add that I think predictability and stable framework conditions are important to ensure the necessary quality. In the case of the European programme in particular, it is necessary that we receive a rapid clarification and an evaluation. I believe that we have also requested this earlier. I am aware that the European programme itself has taken the initiative for an evaluation, but I think it is important that we now get a clarification on how this programme should be financed and what place it has in the overall picture. I would also like to stress that individual research communities have their own responsibilities, of course, also for their own framework conditions. I don't think we should substantiate it. I believe that the individual research communities themselves can benefit from the active provision of funds for their own research, but at the same time we also recognise the need we have for these kinds of environments in a world with as rapid changes as we are now witnessing.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e565	We are behind a very eventful year that has been marked by the conflicts in the Balkans and Central Asia. Norway has been in the leadership of the OSCE during this important period of European history. With the broad opening-up of the Government's draft budget for assistance to the Balkans, conditions are well suited for the continuation of Norway's active involvement in south-east Europe to next year. The main features of future assistance to the region are detailed in St.meld. No 13 for 1999-2000, which the Stortinget will deal with at a later stage. I have noted the rapporteur's statement that we can already base the main lines of the communication on the allocation of funds. In view of the difficult conditions for large sections of the population in the region, and especially in Kosovo and Serbia, humanitarian aid will continue to constitute an important part of the overall Norwegian effort. However, greater emphasis will be placed on measures that can contribute to the reconstruction of infrastructure and the development of business. Here, Norwegian industry can make a positive contribution, and Norwegian enterprises are already involved in important projects to improve electricity supply and water supply in Kosovo. Support for the development of democracy and reconciliation will continue to be central to Western aid to the Balkans. Particular attention will be paid to supporting democratic environments in former Yugoslavia. On the part of the Government, there will be a general emphasis on the coordination of Norwegian assistance with the UN, other international organisations, the EU, the United States and other countries. Only in this way will we have the desired effect of the overall Western aid. I welcome the broad welcome of Norway's efforts to promote political and economic reforms through concrete project cooperation in Central and Eastern Europe, with particular emphasis on North-West Russia and the Baltic States. In this context, we can specify the work with the northern dimension, as the representative Jacobsen was in. In the case of an increase in the 2000 allocation, combined with an increase in the commitment mandate of 200 million. SEK in 1999 to 250 million. kr will be able to escalate slightly next year. In this respect, the relationship between the allocation and the commitment authorisation is useful and sensible and allows the Ministry to plan on a long-term basis. There are a large number of Norwegian actors involved in project cooperation in North-West Russia and the Baltic region, who have built up both good relations and insight into local conditions. Particularly encouraging is the good contact developed at many levels between North Norway and the Russian part of the Barents region. From the Russian side, we get a lot of positive feedback about the value of this cooperation. I welcome the rapporteur's proposal to split the appropriations between Russia and countries that have not applied for EU membership on the one hand and countries that have applied for such membership on the other. We will of course consider this. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is currently working on its own Russia strategy. With regard to the Right's proposal to explore a strategy on how investment and assistance can be used with Russia, I can confirm that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade are working with the Ministry of Industry and Trade on these issues. I therefore intend at an appropriate time to inform the Storting about the work of designing a strategy for Norway's cooperation with Russia. Such a strategy will cover the entire spectrum of contacts and cooperation, including issues related to investment and future Norwegian assistance. We see our cooperation and support for the Baltic countries as a useful aid in their preparations for EU membership. It's about democracy building in general. We also spend a lot of money on Ignalina nuclear power plants in Lithuania. A scheme for Ignalina is part of the entrance ticket – one might say – to the EU for Lithuania. In addition, we have organised EU seminars both in the Baltic countries and in other candidate countries for Eastern and Central Europe. In view of Norway’s comprehensive UN exposure, it is a priority task for the Government to fight for a seat in the Security Council. Membership of the Security Council will provide Norway with a central role and opportunities to contribute actively to the international work on peace and security. Norway has been and is a significant participant in UN peacekeeping operations and has a significant involvement in international crisis areas in both conflict resolution, humanitarian engagement, democracy promotion, conflict prevention and peace mediation. In the Security Council, Norway will be able to work in particular to strengthen its capacity to prevent conflicts, manage crises and reconstruct after a conflict has ended. The Security Council candidate will be a bet area that will require significant efforts. The representative of Solheim still believes that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is at the Stone Age stage in relation to modern computer technology. In 1999, however, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs made a major effort to assess the changes in information and communication technology developments in the Norwegian foreign service sector. A result of this work is the report ‘Electronic Foreign Service — Proposal for a strategy for information and communication technologies and information management in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs 2000-2003’. The Ministry, as a follow-up to this report in these days, is launching a series of projects to address the challenges that the EEAS will face in 2000 and in the years ahead. The representative of Solheim also believes that we should do more towards Cuba, while referring to the dialogue we have with Cuba. I would like to think that this dialogue should continue somewhat before we assess to what extent and in what way we might be upgrading our diplomatic relations with the country. As far as Chechnya is concerned, it is right that I, as the OSCE President, should visit the region; both Chechnya, Dagestan and Ingushetia, on the 14th and 15th of December. I'm starting my other visit to Baku in Azerbaijan already on the 13th to get an assessment of the situation from the Azerbaijani side. It is important that the OSCE become visible in the region, as the representative of Solheim underlines, and that a hostage situation is avoided. At the same time, we must have a realistic relationship with the fact that it is within the framework that Russia will facilitate, that we can make such a visit at the moment. There are two things that I think are particularly important here. One is the possibility of showing that this is a conflict that cannot be exempted from international engagement, and the other is in the short term being able to show solidarity and also provide humanitarian assistance to those who need it. The representative, Marit Nybakk, has asked the Government to review the situation of the various research institutions dealing with foreign policy issues, and not least European issues, and I will take that back to the Government and those of my colleagues who are responsible for the various institutions. With regard to the European programme, which has been added to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we have already taken an initiative to look at its role and function, not least in relation to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because we believe, as the representative Nybakk, that this is an institution we tend to. But we also think that the relationship between, for example, The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the European programme can be developed several more to make use of the work done by the European programme as a department.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e603	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e606	The Minister of Foreign Affairs said that Norway would support the development of democracy and reconciliation measures. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: It is documented by the Center for Monitoring the Impact of Peace that Palestinian schoolbooks contain a classic anti-Semitic stereotyping, in which Jews and Israelis are produced as wild beasts, robbers and thieves, and the prophets as the enemies of the believers. Furthermore, the children are invited to jihad, holy war, against Israel. Norway is, as you know, one of the major contributors to Palestine and is thus involved in financing the school system in Palestine. What is the Foreign Minister's comment that textbooks provide such a presentation, and that anti-Semitism is widely practiced in Palestine, and what does he intend to do on the occasion of the case?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e618	In line with – and in accordance with – wishes, inter alia, to: by the Israeli Government, Norway is right to provide substantial assistance to the Palestinian territories. The question of these school books that the representative Danielsen travels has been raised several times. We have examined the case with regard to our support, and according to the information I have, Norway has not supported the school books. Nevertheless, on the basis of an overall objective, we should point out the things that we think are obvious and that seem provocative and discriminatory, as the representative Danielsen says, raised this question on several occasions. I don't know exactly what happened in the school boxing, and how things have been improved, but my understanding is that President Arafat himself has taken this matter seriously and assured me, among other things. Israeli authorities that the statements of an anti-Semitic nature to which the representative Danielsen refers are to be removed from the school books.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e625	The Minister for Foreign Affairs well got rid of almost all the outstanding questions that were at the beginning of the debate here, and we are coming back to a more comprehensive discussion on cooperation with Russia, in line with what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said. He also partly got rid of the question of what it means, as the Prime Minister said during his visit to Germany, that Norway is ready to be a partner for the EU in the enlargement process to facilitate the transition of new members, and here he showed the cooperation with the Baltic countries. Now, as I said, the Prime Minister here in the Question Time for a couple of weeks was also involved in other mechanisms that can be used in that context, and I see, of course, that these different promises become concrete when the Government comes up with its European message. There can be more concrete government when it comes to what one thinks Norway should be a partner for the EU in the extension. If we can now also get some certainty that this message will be presented to Stortingen during the spring session, so that we can deal with such questions in the reasonably near future, there will be a significant contribution in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e632	Let me first clarify a misunderstanding. At least I have never promised that the European message will be presented in the spring session. I'll do the best I can, but I don't think we have the capacity to do that. We're going to take it as early as possible during the fall session, but during the spring session I think I'm not going to do it, with the resources we have at our disposal. With regard to the central and eastern European candidate countries of the EU, it is right that I tried to say in my speech that we support them in different ways. We can, and will naturally come back to this in the European Communication, and describe in more detail how we do it. But in addition to that – to say – aid-oriented cooperation, in several countries – Romania, Hungary and some of the Baltic countries, as far as I remember on the move – we have had seminars of the kind ‘how to open their negotiations with the EU’. We have, as you know, good experience in Norway, and these countries have been interested in it. The European Commission has also seen it as very interesting, because it has helped to point to areas of particular importance in such negotiating situations. We support, as you know, a regional fund in the European Union. It is currently mainly used in regions in southern Europe, but it is our understanding that it will gradually also be used in relation to Central and Eastern Europe, and thus help to integrate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e641	Since this is a budget debate, I would like to grasp that Norway is not paying monthly with funds on the high oil price in relation to, among other things. That one keeps Iraq out of the market. I feel like here is talking a little bit with two tongues. If one goes into this matter in reality – this blockade – one of a report from WHO, that is Gro’s organization, sees that there are 6,000 children dying every month. So over half a million children have died during the blockade. I think it's directly immoral of this government not to have a completely different hold on the blockade, show that Norway has a different position. Those who really get a little sweat for the blockade are not Saddam, for example. women and children who die as a result of this blockade. That should worry the Secretary of State. Then it also becomes a little paradoxical that we can get more money for help, can spend some of the surplus we get because of the high oil price, for aid over Hilde Frafjord Johnson's budget, but a good thing not to have an offensive position in this matter. The second question concerns what was raised by the representative Solheim, that is, with an embassy in Cuba. The boycott, which is old, older than the boycott of Iraq, costs a lot for the Cuban people. It's not Fidel Castro either that gets dizzy, it's the population – also there. I thought that one should be more offensive from the Norwegian Government's side in following up the contacts we have with Cuba. Now we know that the social committee will be going over in January. It gives the Norwegian government an excellent opportunity to be more offensive on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e648	As far as Cuba is concerned, I think we have been quite offensive from the Norwegian side. We have close contact with Cuban authorities. I don't think the regime in Cuba is completely unproblematic, and I also think some trends have gone in the wrong direction lately, but yet we believe that the human rights dialogue and the contacts we have with Cuba are useful and correct, and we will continue to use them and develop them further. With regard to Iraq and oil boycott, the representative Langeland and I have had talks about it earlier. We agree that it is a tragedy what is happening in Iraq. It is also my understanding that the representative of Langeland does not deny President Saddam his part of responsibility for this. But as I understand him, he thinks that if we just lift the boycott, everything will be fine in Iraq, and unfortunately it's not. Already today, we know that this 'oil for food' programme can provide the population with much more food and medicine than is available to the population. Nevertheless, from the Norwegian side, we have worked to change the sanctions so that they can benefit the population more. There are proposals in the Security Council on this which we naturally support. But we also know that the Iraqi authorities do not want to cooperate with the United Nations on the 'oil for food' regime, and therefore it is very difficult, unfortunately, to do something concrete to Iraq, despite the fact that we have seen different opportunities. As long as Saddam Hussein is in power in Iraq, we will probably be in a situation where the population of Iraq is suffering.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e655	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e659	I would like to raise one of those posts that have not yet been included in the State budget, which the representative Solheim and Langeland have already been involved in. This concerns the establishment of an embassy in Havana, Cuba. I am disappointed with the answer given by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, because I think we have already had a good dialogue with Cuba, and long enough to find money for a small embassy there. I hope the government will come back to this in the next state budget. I think this is a natural follow-up to the contacts we already have through the Norwegian-Cuban dialogue that is established. There has been regular exchange of visits at political level for several years. There's a lot going on between Norway and Cuba. I also think the government should be commended for having done a lot of good in this dialogue. Both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister have been invited. According to the newspapers, the Foreign Minister will travel over there in the new year, and after what I understand, there has been a particularly good personal contact between the Prime Minister and Fidel Castro. The Social Committee will travel there in January. Several Norwegian organisations cooperate with or are already established in Cuba. Cuba is also an increasingly popular holiday destination for Norwegian tourists. This will increase further now when we've got direct flight. There are great opportunities for trade with Cuba. Norwegian companies are interested, but refuse when there is no embassy there. The Cubans themselves are interested in trade with us, especially in fisheries, farming and energy. It has already been proposed that Cuba become a main area of activity for the export of Norwegian rockfish. Cuba was a very important market for Norwegian fish exports before the revolution. As far as I know, the Minister for Fisheries has also been invited to Cuba, and he should certainly take that trip. Cuba's Minister of State for Foreign Affairs has expressed the wish for a bilateral investment agreement with Norway. We can expand our imports to more products than cigars and rooms. The Cubans want to open an embassy in Oslo. All the exciting things going on are going to link us closer to Cuban society. Opening an embassy in Havana will further contribute to the Norwegian-Cuban connections. The Cubans are a brave people. They haven't had it too easy. The U.S. blockade is well known and hit hard. Cuba needs help. They need increased trade to develop further. They are oriented towards the international community. The Havana authorities provide a clean and well-balanced basis for foreign investment. It's my particular impression that the Cubans are looking for a model of society for a pattern from the Nordic welfare state in the new orientation they're up to. Moreover, I would like to add that the model we have for cooperation with China should be the basis for further cooperation with the Cubans. Now perhaps the Foreign Minister is a little surprised that there was a lot of focus on setting up an embassy in Cuba, but there is one thing that concerns many people. And I was amazed at the foreign minister's reply to the representative Langeland, where his reason for not opening an embassy in Cuba was political. In the past, the rationale has been primarily economic. But the Foreign Minister said that Cuba is not an «indisputable» regime in relation to the establishment of an embassy there. Then I wonder which countries the Minister for Foreign Affairs has in mind and compares with, if there is an unproblematic regime that is the obstacle to establishing an embassy in Cuba. Others have suggested that it might be the relationship with the United States, but I believe that we should absolutely not allow the gravity of this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e672	It's important to set goals in life. This is also the case in politics. The objectives must be concrete, they must be realistic, but at the same time something to go for. The stepping-up plan for development cooperation presented by the Government in the 2000 budget illustrates this precisely. Not only does it set a standard in terms of our willingness to assist, but it also establishes a clear timeframe for achieving concrete objectives with the necessary flexibility. It also indicates how the bet is to be made, pointing to the most central growth areas in the future. The common denominator is poverty reduction. The importance of clear objectives in this area has been underlined in the last year by both the IMF in their assessment of the Norwegian economy and the OECD, both of which commend Norway for the priority we give it. The OECD's examination of Norwegian aid in the autumn was also very positive. The debate on my statement about two weeks ago shows that in the Storting there is a broad consensus about the course that the Government has taken. The budget setting also confirms this. In the presentation debate I also covered a number of fields that will therefore not be mentioned in this article. As we increase assistance, we must at the same time ensure that the quality is satisfactory. We have strengthened our efforts in this area. There is also better coordination of assistance coming in here. Similarly, it is important to invest in countries with a development-promoting policy and good governance, or with sufficient will to achieve it. I would like to point out here that the Government has committed itself to reviewing the level and arrangements of assistance to priority countries of cooperation and other developing countries in the light of the so-called ‘Assessing Aid’ report of the World Bank. As indicated in the proposal, on the basis of this review, it could be appropriate to return to the Stortinget with its own land assessments and possible consequences for the level and device of assistance to individual countries. I also note with satisfaction that the Storting is also concerned about this and getting the most appropriate distribution between land and regional allocations. The situation in some countries suggests that the use of these appropriations is closely linked, depending on the political developments in the countries concerned, as the Committee points out. We have done this, as we know it for Zimbabwe, Ethiopia and Eritrea, and we are open to using similar redispatches in special cases where the political situation should provide it. In this context, let me also remind you of the need to see the use of regional appropriations in the context of humanitarian aid appropriations. In particular, for countries and regions in a post-conflict reconstruction phase, this will be important. Here, humanitarian needs and development-oriented measures, long-term measures, will have to be met in parallel. In part, it will be difficult — not to say completely meaningless — to try to draw up clear distinctions between different forms of action in such a situation. Central Africa, Sudan and Indonesia/East Timor are areas where I would like to pay particular attention to avoiding large gaps and vacuums in relief efforts and ensuring good coordination between the use of the different parts of the budget. This is also why these countries can now receive regional aid. This is also about showing willingness to take risks by using assistance to ensure peace and stability in a transitional phase. Without such effort, there is a high risk that conflicts again will break out. Let me also say that I agree with Mr Solheim on the importance of coordination and coordination in humanitarian operations and reconstruction. East Timor was the example he drew out. It's really global. In East Timor, the main weight of Norwegian aid has gone to the UN, which has the coordinating responsibility. We're trying to avoid just this multiplication of actors. The second thing I would like to stress is the importance of focusing on the stability of Indonesia, which was mentioned, and this we will come back to later. It has been said countless times before, but endures to be repeated: peace is the basis of all development. Therefore, it is to contribute to peace a very central task, precisely from a development perspective. In recent years, we have invested considerable resources to resolve violent conflicts, including through development cooperation. The budget states that we will continue to engage heavily in such work. However, the main response must be prevention as a starting point. Prevention is far more cost-effective than repair, and it saves innocent people from unimaginable suffering. Few things amaze me more in the debate on development policy than those who are most critical of our commitment, after all, call for humanitarian aid. And immediately it might seem understandable. Most people think it would be heartbroken not to assist the desperate people who reach us through the TV screen. But is it not equally heartbroken not to contribute to such a situation? It is less spectacular to help prevent a crisis, but there is a number of more effective ways to contribute. For every penny we spend on preventive work, we're likely to save several kroner in emergency aid. We will never get there that there is no need for emergency aid, and once the crises arise, it is our moral and humanitarian duty to contribute. However, by focusing more on assistance, as a majority in the United Kingdom is now in favour, we will make a contribution to preventing disasters of the extent we have seen in recent years. It was an interesting passion that took place, among other things. in connection with corruption and the posts of the representative, Mr Gundersen. Let me inform the representative of Gundersen that anti-corruption is not something that we have come up with on the part of the government parties. Quality assurance of Norwegian aid and prevention of corruption has been in focus for a long time. Anti-corruption was one of the main areas of action in the counter-report of the Christian People's Party in 1995 – and in all modesty, this chapter was written by me. This we have followed up with an even stronger focus now in government, as it also emerged from my statement. The representative of Solheim gave a clear picture of the types of action needed. In the Human Rights Action Plan, we will focus on democracy, free media, civil society and similar actions. This is undoubtedly very important in an anti-corruption context, without any explicit focus on anti-corruption action as a theme of the plan itself. And I find reason to stress this here, in the light of the impression you might get earlier in the debate. I have recorded that there is a desire from some teams for a more comprehensive debate on some development policy issues. That is good – and of course I want to do that. I have mentioned the review to be carried out in connection with the ‘Assessing Aid’ report. Support for industrial development in the south is one theme. I will also carry out reviews of our support through the multilateral system and through non-governmental organisations. These are questions that I find it natural to come back to Stortinget with. I imagine that this could be done partly in the context of the annual statements and partly in the context of the budget. This is also how we can avoid the Storting being left out in relation to the different questions. There is so much dynamism in international developments in this field that more extensive treatment, for example: in the form of a notification, may easily lead to it. An active use of the opportunities given, and which we have, in the context of budgets and presentations, will, as I see it, give the Stortinget better opportunity to participate successively in the formulation of Norwegian development policy. I would like to receive signals from Stortinget at this point. I would like to conclude my speech in the last budget debate before the millennium by referring to the positive developments that are actually taking place internationally. Well, it's a long way back, and the challenges may never have been bigger, yet we've achieved a lot in the last 50 years, something like that. comprehensive UNDP statistics, the United Nations Development Programme, show. Many people have been lifted out of poverty – much positive development as a result of the assistance. At the same time, the gap increases, and population growth also contributes to it. And then we see that we have new opportunities to do something about it, and maybe they're also better than ever. We see a new dynamic with new initiatives from heavy and central players internationally, from the World Bank, from the International Monetary Fund, the IMF, and from heavy donors. We see that the G-7 is coming on the track with a major and important commitment, precisely in the field of development policy. We have a good starting point for new alliances. I think it's worth focusing on it at the end of this year, and it's up to us to use just the space we now have, and to contribute to action on behalf of the very poorest. That's what the government wants, and here I'm glad we have the Storting with us.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e712	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e715	The Council of State was concerned with many interesting problem settings in its article, and I would suggest that the Council of State's wishes are more consistent with the SV's priorities and budgets, and the size of SV's budget. What I'm a little interested in challenging the Council of State is this with civil society in relation to the blockade problem, which she was in. As Minister of Human Rights, the Council of State will also discover that civil society is the subject of the blockade. That debt – as I said in my reply to Vollebæk – Iraq, where it dies about. 6000 children a month, it's about the suffering that people are suffering because of a long-term blockade by Cuba, which primarily affects civilians, and it's also about the situation that you're going to have in Serbia, where there are over 1 million refugees, and where civil society is what's going to happen. So my challenge to the Minister of Human Rights is first and foremost how she assesses the blockade policy in relation to the colossal suffering of civil society.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e724	In a human rights perspective, I also find reason to note one reasoning that I think is interesting, and that is that SV now focuses a lot more strongly on the unfortunate consequences of boikott – that is really the boycott tragedy one talks about more than direct blockades – while the case probably earlier in the 1990s was that both they and very many others cried out at boikot in time and in vain. It's a rather interesting development, and I think it's positive, because we need a nuanced debate on boycott as an instrument. And when the big message, the action plan for human rights, comes before Christmas, the Stortinget will have a nuanced, tidy and proper debate on this. One of the major dilemmas is precisely what representatives Langeland and Solheim have drawn up, namely the consequences for the civilian population. This is also an important topic of debate in the UN and in the Security Council. The same dilemma has arisen from several humanitarian organisations, from the hungry community, which point to unfortunate consequences for innocents as a result of boycotting as an instrument. Now it's not easy to land on the other side, and that boycott should never be used. We need tough instruments against leaders who understand nothing but power and strong and clear reactions from the international community. But I want to get one relationship that I think can lead us a little bit further. It is the work done in the UN to design a regime for what is called ‘smart sanctions’ – smart sanctions – that actually targets the leaders, the small powers, the politicians, and not the innocent civilian population. It is being worked on in the United Nations, and investigations are being carried out in the political departments there to see if it is possible to arrive at a more precise instrument. This is something that we of course strongly support. I would also like to refer to what the Foreign Minister said about the fact that the sanctions regime is, in fact, about to change, and that there is now a debate in the Security Council on new proposals in this regard, tabled by a few members of the Security Council.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e735	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The next speaker is Fridtjof Frank Gundersen, who has a speaking time of up to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e740	I hope not to spend five minutes. I would just like to point out what Councillor Frafjord Johnson said that this quality assurance against corruption in the case of Norwegian development aid had already begun in 1995, possibly even earlier, that the result is not very promising. In my post I quoted the director of the Development Assistance Directorate, Tove Strand. She said: ‘Thefts, thefts of public funds, general mismanagement and nepotism have reached alarming heights in our countries of cooperation.’ Corruption permeates society from top to bottom. And if you don't have any significant means to fight this, I think it would be natural to limit development aid, so you have a pretty good idea that the funds provided are going to be in the right place. There's been a lot of talk about Cuba. I have to say that my impression of the Cuban journalists who visited our country was at least clear that they were away from any democratic thinking. They expressed a very centralistic way of thinking, and reminded me strongly of pure Stalinists. When they got questions of a closer ideological nature, a person suddenly appeared – that is, he had been sitting there all the time, but he had not said anything before – who spoke on behalf of everyone. No one else said anything. He was clearly a political commissioner who had the task of speaking on behalf of all journalists. It was almost like a cartoon. And what it's going to do to have contact with those kind of delegations, I can't believe that. In any case, I do not think that the visit provided any natural basis for establishing diplomatic contact with a regime that sends out such delegations. Otherwise, I would just like to inform you that I advise the Progress Party to vote against the vote, as it is far too far from the draft budget we have tabled.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e756	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1204]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e770	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1216]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e778	It is then to be voted on on on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e1500	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward, the proposals No. 1 and 2, from Siri Frost Sterri on behalf of the Right. First, there will be a vote on proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to develop a strategy for the use of investments and assistance with Russia and to present it to the Storting in an appropriate manner.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e1508	The debate has shown that there is a broad majority in favour of proposal No. 2, from the Right, and with the foreign minister's condolences to the proposal, there is no right-wing need to get a vote on it. We therefore ask that it be converted into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e1513	The President then proposes that the introductory part be changed from ‘The Government asks’ to ‘It is recommended to the Government’, etc., and that the proposal be transmitted to the Government without substance. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted unanimously. The President then takes up proposal No. 1, from Siri Frost Sterri on behalf of the Right. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e5409	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e5428	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-10.ana.ud2518e5443	There is no record.
