ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-12-lower.ana.ud2353e39	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 20 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given to the exchange of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers for each party group and after the contributions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-12-lower.ana.ud2353e50	The matter we are dealing with now can be divided into two areas: 1st@item: inlistbox Source protection issues, i.e. the right of the media to refuse to provide their source of information2. Questions relating to the right of the media to refer from legal meetings The proposals in the setting, together with the leaders included in the Committee's comments, will significantly strengthen the protection of sources. First of all, it will be noted in cases where the information must be presumed to have been provided in the event of a criminal offence of professional secrecy. In such cases, the journalist may today be required to state the name of the source and, in addition, the Supreme Court has stated that only modest evidence is required that the obligation of professional secrecy may be breached. This special rule will be removed now. In the future, the name of the source could only be required to be stated if the court considers that important social interests warrant it, even in cases where the source of the information may have breached a legal obligation of professional secrecy. Yes, even in those cases where important social interests suggest that the journalist may be required to give the name of the source, the obligation to testify would be exceptional only if there were facts that were of social importance to be made known. One of the exceptions mentioned is a serious breach of professional secrecy which interferes with the right to respect for privacy. In such cases, the majority of the Committee considers that it may be appropriate to grant an exemption and to require a witness from the journalist on the name of the source. The members of the Progress Party have come a little further, and believe that any breach of the confidentiality obligations which harms privacy is so serious that in such cases the court may require the name of the source. The Judicial Committee is unanimous in its assessment that the new rules will provide a better source of protection in cases where the obligation of professional secrecy may have been broken than the case-law that has led to it. Should a journalist who has reproduced information in a criminal case from an anonymous person whom the police would like to question as a witness or suspect indicate his name? There may be exceptions, but as a general rule, a unanimous judiciary believes that the answer is no. If the journalist has promised the source of anonymity before he was informed, the journalist will face a hopeless moral dilemma if he is required to break his word of honour. However, the most important thing is that in many cases he will not receive this information unless he can promise the source anonymity. In this case, the public and the police will not have access to information which could be of great help to the police in the further investigation. Therefore, a main principle of source protection in criminal matters is likely to be of greater help to the police than if the main rule was the obligation to testify. In one area, Stortinget's second largest party fundamentally disagrees with the majority. The question of how strong the protection of sources should be is whether a journalist reproduces information that is manifestly outrageous or contrary to the statutory protection of privacy, and can therefore lead to criminal liability and liability for both the media body, the journalist and the source. The majority of the Committee will also have a strong source of protection here and will indicate that claims for compensation can be brought against the media body, the editor and the journalist. The Progress Party sees no reason for the author to be protected in such cases. The Ministry proposes somewhat stricter rules for the search of editorial premises than those applicable to the search in other commercial premises. The majority of the committees support these proposals, including: because the decision to search editorial premises will often be more controversial than any other search, and because search in editorial rooms has important aspects related to the protection of the free press and to the protection of sources. The Progress Party disagrees with these assessments and sees no reason for arguments about the freedom of the press and the press to provide the police with poorer employment opportunities in cases of illegality committed by media agents than the police have in connection with investigations in cases where they are suspected to be businessmen or private individuals. The proposition we are discussing today is a follow-up to the work of the so-called Source Protection Committee. The press has undoubtedly placed its spokespersons well in this selection, since the majority of questions relating to publicity in court support the press's interest in the widest possible publicity. The Ministry and a unanimous Justice Department have chosen to place far greater emphasis on privacy considerations and the need for effective investigation. Today, the general rule is that there should be a ban on minutes from court meetings outside the main negotiations. The majority of the committee considers that the court should have access to a ban on minutes, but that it should not be the general rule. A unanimous judiciary believes that the rule should be the same today, and that both research and data protection points to a general starting point that it can be referred from such legal meetings. The majority of the committee considers that the press should be given a copy of the intent on which the prison is based in cases where a sentencing order has been issued. The Judicial Committee considers that both data protection considerations and research reasons argue against giving the media such access. The committee considers that the representatives of the mass media present in a hearing shall have the right to comment before deciding on the issue of restrictions on the public access to the negotiations. The Judicial Committee sees no need to support such a proposal. The committee considers that the prohibition of the public reproduction of a judgment on grounds of privacy shall be enforced. The Judicial Committee agrees with the Ministry that practical reasons warrant that the court should be able to decide to refuse public representation without having to give notice. Let me then raise a few questions where there is disagreement in the committee. The majority of the Committee would like to protect persons who are sources of atrocities or attacks on privacy, and believes that it is sufficient that the media company, the editor and the journalist can be confronted with claims for compensation. The main argument for source protection, as presented by a unanimous committee in the vote, is that it is important to ensure the press's ability to reveal critical conditions in our society. It is difficult to see that this argument can be relied on in the case of persons who spread rumors, lies and gossip to press agencies for pure harm. Such people exist, people who, for various reasons – there may be neighboring disputes, job disputes, jealousy or political power struggle – want to harm other people and therefore, with malicious intent, try to influence, manipulate or trick an inexperienced journalist into providing further information that is false and disrespectful or is contrary to the provisions of criminal law on privacy. It must be clear that it is an important social interest to limit such behaviour, and it cannot be of social importance that lying and reviling claims be made known. There is therefore no good argument for a source protection in such cases. It is obvious that the source of evil itself can escape criminal and civil liability, while the journalist who acted negligently and thoughtlessly has to take the load. I am convinced that it is contrary to the general legal opinion of most people. Protecting evil is not a good policy, but in this case it is a policy of the majority of the Judicial Committee. Having said that, of course, I am pleased that the majority specifies that the consequences of source protection in such cases must be that the liability of the media company, the editor and the journalist would be higher than it would otherwise be. The majority of the Committee, the representatives of the Labour Party and the Progress Party, propose to ask the Government to propose the necessary legislative changes to ensure that the name and image of suspected, intentional or accused persons in criminal matters are not published and that the Government also assess whether equivalent rules should apply to witnesses and offended persons. The media often presents themselves as champions of justice, like those who reveal critical conditions in our society, as defenders of the little man against public abuse of power. In reality, the media itself is one of the most powerful perpetrators in our country, and it is actually that in some cases the media is the body of power that tramples on innocent people and destroys human lives. There are victims of violence in our society, and there are media victims in our society – people who have been mentally degraded and destroyed by media postings, because the motives of newspapers and TV companies are not always to reveal grievances and to communicate truthful, important and valuable information to the population. Selling the newspapers by satisfying the general curiosity of readers is also a motive, a motive that makes some newspapers have little difficulty in naming more or less well-known people who, for example, are suspected or accused of criminal acts. The day the matter is settled, the headlines are not always as large, and in any case the damage has happened, too many will think that there is no smoke without fire. It's a fundamental principle in our legal community that everyone is innocent until the opposite is proven. No one can be judged without according to law and judgment. It should also be a fundamental moral rule. It is not so rare that the prosecution authority aims at a person for a criminal act and then to settle the case. In other words, many visions are innocent. The defendant may also be acquitted. Being accused of a serious crime that has not been committed is in itself a great psychological burden. If your immediate environment, the community, maybe the whole country, learns about the suspicion or the visibility, it can, of course, be devastating. The prosecution authority may create victims through rapid sightings, and the mass media may crush the victims completely by writing in a way that leads to identification or by giving the name and image. And it happens that it happens, most often in connection with alleged financial crime, but also in other cases. But we shouldn't let that happen. In the proposition we are now discussing, there are several references to Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights on Freedom of Speech. It should be equally appropriate to refer to Article 8 of the same Convention on Human Rights on the right to privacy. The Council of Europe has stated in several resolutions that this article relates not only to the relations of individuals with public authorities but also to the relations of individuals with the media. So is the majority's proposal a matter of protecting criminals? Absolutely not! The point is that no one can be defined as a criminal until a conviction has been passed that he has committed a criminal act. A suspect, a defendant or a defendant is not necessarily a criminal. It may prove to be the case when the judgment is given. Then it should also be clear to the press to publish names as well as pictures. It must, of course, also be excluded if it is necessary for police investigations to search for a purpose or accused person who has evaded or if the person concerned agrees to be mentioned by name and photographed. The counter-arguments have been that the press, by failing to name a suspected or sighted person, can create a rumor flood that can stigmatize entire environments. I agree that this can happen, especially when the media goes as far as possible to arouse people's curiosity, by, for example, writing that a well-known actor and NRK employee is suspected of incest. It is obvious that it addresses the suspicions and speculations of the whole environment on Marienlyst. But the information is unnecessary. The point is that a father is suspected of sexual abuse. There should be no interest in the matter where this father works. In other words, the press should exercise caution with the information it chooses to disclose, even when there is legal information that does not directly name the person. In some cases, everyone will understand who the person is. It will be impossible to mention the matter so that identification can be avoided, says another counter-argument. That's also true, but it won't be often. The fact that in such cases it seems artificial not to give a name is not a strong argument in relation to the major adverse effects naming can lead to for persons who are innocent. I must admit that I think the minority in the committee shows too much confidence in the media when it refers to the press's own 'Be careful' poster. There is probably at least one generation since the press's own ethical rules were considered more important than the sales figures for several of our largest media companies. The little man in our society needs protection, not only from the abuses of the authorities, but also from the abuses of the press, and faced with the power of the press, actually also resource-powerful people become quite small. Therefore, despite factual counter-arguments, which of course exist, the Progress Party supports this proposal, which was originally an initiative by the Big Bang representative Olav Akssen by means of a Document No. Eight proposals from 1994-95. Finally, I refer to the proposals from the Progress Party mentioned in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-12-lower.ana.ud2353e116	The representative Simonsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. The President assumes that the representative Simonsen does not have cover to say that the majority intends to protect the evil of society. The President considers that the representative should refrain from attaching such negative motives to other representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-12-lower.ana.ud2353e121	Today's changes in the law governing public access to justice and the press and other media's protection of their sources of justice are important, both for the protection of the individual citizen and for those who are to provide the information to the people. It is an important principle that is taken up — each one’s legal protection against the public debate on the practice of the trial. The amendments aim to strengthen the protection of sources by limiting the possibility of exceptionally imposing witness obligations on those working in newspapers and other media. For the Workers' Party, it has been important to consider whether the obligation to testify should be imposed that a high level of emphasis is placed on the concerns of the source protection system and that it should be co-ordinated with regard to the provision of information and the prevention of criminal offences. A collective Justiscomite is a major concern of the Ministry that an absolute ban should not be imposed on a press officer to disclose a source’s identity, thereby proposing exemptions from the source protection. The Committee also agrees that the current system whereby the court itself decides whether to close the doors and whether to impose obligations in cases where the obligation to testify is imposed is to continue in line with current practice. Given that we want our society to be based on democracy and freedom of expression, it has been important for the Labour Party during the management of the proposition that there is a certain strengthening of the legal protection of its sources of pressure. We see source protection as important in order to ensure that our ability to discover critical conditions in our society is under pressure. Today’s amendment mainly aims to make adjustments in individualowners, and to make legislation clearer and more easily accessible to users. It is important to note that a collective committee is agreed that full publicity must be the starting point, in line with what the central conventions on human rights also require, but sees that the demand for publicity cannot be absolute. The European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg has interpreted Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights in such a way that there must be a monthly balance of interest for the opposing interests in order to give up the protection of sources. This Convention is and will also provide guidance for Norwegian legislation when the Stortinget incorporates the Conventions on Human Rights into Norwegian law during the spring. There are currently strict requirements for the search of editorial premises. The working party supports the proposal to extend this protection to local corresponding editorial rooms and to allow search decisions to be taken only at a relatively high level before the prosecution authority. Estimation of an editorial room can be seen as an attack on the freedom of expression in general, and therefore should have a well-thought-out basis in the individual cases that may come. We therefore believe that the decision should be taken at as high a level as possible to avoid doubt as to the basis and the reasons for the decision. A system should not be lowered than the State Attorney. I am also pleased that the case-speaker has got his party, the Progress Party, to believe that what has been an important principle for the Workers' Party – and also in the previous period for a collective justice ministry – is that it is important and a human right to take care of privacy for a suspect, intentional or accused before the court has passed judgment on the person concerned. There is no information pressed when they take pictures of a suspect with a jacket or padded over the head, or allow them to use a full name without permission from the victim. It is to hurt the individual and the family, because it has been found that mistakes have been made, and such mistakes are not easy to fix. I have noticed that there are newspapers that think we are getting too much legal protection against the charges. In particular, I noticed the leader in the Firda magazine – which comes out in my county – on 4 January this year. They claim in the management article that there is a dangerous way to go by law to give the state powers to regulate the information. I thought, until I saw this leader pressurized, that locals with their local knowledge would benefit from the “Be careful” poster more than, for example. A loose leaf dish in Akersgata that increases its salt on sensational news. But when the same paper writes: ‘Shall law prevent the eel from getting to know the perpetrators who will all try to defend themselves and their opponents?’ Then I got the confirmation of how correct and important it is to have this legal expression, because one is not a perpetrator until they have fallen. In case a person is a danger to someone, one will be placed in custody by all probability. It seems that it is a democratic right to be protected by the great community, and that protection cannot guarantee the great community without being in the form of a law. One is not a perpetrator by being suspected, targeted or accused, and it shows how wrong a country's newspaper also takes on this principle, as the Labour Party adds so much weight. In addition, it appears that there is a need for a change of law that takes account of this principle, for as I said, one is not a proven perpetrator until the judgment has been given. For this reason, I am surprised that the Right Party, which always points to the legal protection of the individual, now stands behind the proposal of the Bondevik government and the centre party, because this is not the protection of the individual. There is no evidence to suggest that there is enough self-justice for the media and newspapers to impose on themselves at a time when the limits of suspension are constantly being extended in a negative direction in relation to the legal protection of the individual. This principle must always be observed in a modern society, because we need strict privacy in order to preserve democracy and freedom of expression, but that freedom of expression must be based on facts – and it is in this context that it does not lead until they have fallen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-12-lower.ana.ud2353e143	The power of the press is great, we often say as a spoken and asserted truth. And because that's the case, it's important that power is based on facts that can be verified and controlled. The exercise of the power of the press takes place differently from the gaping stick to dramatic and societal revelations. But most of the time it happens through influence and information through the communication of facts, descriptions and comments. An important prerequisite for the press and the media to be free and independent from other factors of power in democracy is that the identity of their sources need not be disclosed. This premise ensures that persons who have information of public interest dare to pass it on to the media. But at the same time, it is an editorial responsibility to exercise the balance between what becomes gaping or publicly interesting and necessary revelations. On the other hand, absolute protection of sources could make it easier for anonymous sources to disseminate incorrect and outrageous data on persons contrary to Norwegian law. This may lead to the disclosure of private information contrary to the provisions of the Criminal Code on the protection of privacy or to the exercise of criminal offences that could otherwise have been prevented. Source protection must therefore be limited, but the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg believes that there must be a significant balance of interest for the opposite reasons for the withdrawal of source protection. With regard to the exceptions to the general rule on source protection, the Christian People's Party agrees with the Ministry that concepts necessarily need to be used in the new rules on witness duty that allow for the right to exercise significant discretion. With regard to search and seizure in editorial offices or similar, the Christian People's Party is of the opinion that this is a relatively dramatic decision with important aspects of the protection of a free press and of the protection of sources. Therefore, we are in favour of the Government's view that decisions to search an editorial room should not be taken at a level lower than that of the State Attorney. Similarly, we believe it is right to include in Section 200 of the Criminal Procedures Act a specific rule that the editor should be called upon when deciding to search editorial premises. When proposed in the suspension, coordination of existing court laws §§ 125, 126 and 127 to a new § 125 implies, inter alia, that: an important access to the right to decide closed doors in criminal matters where special circumstances give rise to fears that public opinion would make it difficult to clarify all aspects of a case. In this way, we can prevent the tendency of important witnesses not to dare to stand up in court for fear of reprisals from criminal environments. The Christian People's Party, together with the Right and the Center parties, is in minority at one point in the setting. There is an absolute ban on the reproduction of names and images of suspected, intentional and accused persons in criminal proceedings. When we oppose such an absolute prohibition, it relates to what we perceive as a balance between the protection of freedom of expression on the one hand and privacy on the other. A general ban on the press on the publication of names will not take sufficient account of the role of the media as an information intermediary. However, this should not be understood as a release of the precautionary attitudes of the ‘Be careful’ poster. Of course, privacy must continue to be safeguarded. Experience with existing legislation shows that there have not been so many and serious violations of individuals that it can justify the introduction of such a total prohibition rule. In this context, we do not believe that the difficult balance between wanted transparency and critical journalism on the one hand and privacy on the other can be solved without further delay by a legal ban. That's why we're voting against point B of the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-12-lower.ana.ud2353e156	I personally appreciated the President's accusation of defending evil. On the other hand, I belong to a party that is used to being accused of being the party of the criminals, so as it is a certain inflation also in terms, I was not particularly offended. The case rapporteur also claimed in his post that the minority had unlimited confidence in the media. To the extent that it should be right, I must be able to establish that the majority has a similar unlimited distrust of the media. I think we got an example of this difference in view also in the post by the representative Astrid Marie Nistad, where she referred to the greedy press agency in Akersgaten. I understood that it was the irresponsible evening post she referred to, but it could of course be thought that there were other press agencies she had in mind, and then it might be tricked and tell which organ she was thinking about. Apart from these initial remarks, I am pleased to note that there is a broad consensus on most aspects of source protection and publicity in court proceedings. The Right-wing Programme establishes that the media’s source protection is to be respected and legalised. This means that the Right wants to strengthen the source protection, but that such strengthening does not have to be at the expense of privacy. In my opinion, the Government has taken good care of these intentions, with proposals that are essentially an update of today's rules, but at the same time a balanced balance in a direction that contains a strengthening of source protection. This strengthening of source protection is supported by the Right. Although in some areas some press agencies might intend to go beyond the proposals that are coming forward, it is important to maintain that the direction of the proposals is correct. A general strengthening of the legal protection of the sources of the press has been carried out through the proposal and the treatment of it by the Storting. In fact, the general rule remains that any obligation to explain itself to the court as a witness, but on the basis of the desire to preserve silence on the identity of the sources, the journalist may, within a broad framework, refuse to explain to the court. This right to refuse to answer questions about the identity of the sources may be waived only if the court considers, in particular, that an explanation is required. The desire of the press for an absolute prohibition on providing sources has not been supported, but the basis for the right to oblige the press to disclose the name of the source is limited to, as it states: ‘When important social interests indicate that the disclosure is made and it is essential for the clarification of the case...’» The Committee has agreed with an interpretation given by the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg that there must be a significant list of interests for the opposing reasons for the withdrawal of source protection. The Committee thus adheres to the Government's assurance that source protection is important in order to ensure the press's ability to identify critical conditions in our society. This position must and must be seen as both a declaration of confidence in the ability of the press to handle these provisions ethically properly and an expression of faith that this confidence is being used by the press responsibly. A difficult balance is the consideration that must be taken when the source behind an information has obviously breached a legal obligation of professional secrecy. However, the obligation of professional secrecy can be used as an easy way for the administration to conceal administrative and administrative misconduct. In this case, the obligation of professional secrecy is not applied to what it is primarily intended to protect, e.g.: the interests of clients, but it is used to prevent public access to critical issues, such as: abuse of powers and abuse of power by public bodies. I am pleased to say that with the new changes, we are getting a better source of protection than we have had with the case-law that has been followed so far. The exercise of authority is often the practice of broad powers and thus the exercise of discretion. It is important to bring to light the interpretation and practice used and that it becomes part of the general social debate. And most importantly, perhaps a lot of information given to the press in banishing the press's independent position in relation to stating the identity of the witnesses would hardly ever have emerged if the strict protection of the witnesses had not existed. The fact that the information is provided in this way could often be positive for police work. The question of the ability of the media to publish names in criminal matters has divided the Committee into a majority and a minority. The right considers that consideration of freedom of expression must be given to this balancing issue, also because the press itself stands for a reasonable and restrictive position, on the basis of its ‘Take care’ poster. This view is also in line with the European Convention on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-12-lower.ana.ud2353e180	The legal security in Norway is threatened partly by people who have seats in this room, and not least by the way Norwegian media cover criminal and criminal cases, it applies to individual cases, but also to the general image being created. I want to focus on the last, the media's role. It has been an old and good tradition in Norway that one is innocent until the opposite is proven – i.e. one is condemned in the courtroom. Unfortunately, it happens from time to time that the police attack people, call them in, aim them, and owe them for things they haven't done. It turns out in some cases that people are released by the police because the police have no case with them, but in worst cases the cases come as far as the court before it becomes clear that the police have got hold of the wrong person – the person being held responsible is innocent. We can all try to put ourselves into the desperate situation that it must be for a person to be suspicious, suspicious of something a person has not done. If one of them has a situation where one is strongly exposed in the media, we can all understand the additional stress. It's just that for a matter to be of interest to the media, it has to be quite serious. Media's thinking seems to be: the worse, the better. That's why it's actually such that to the extent that there's strong media coverage and focus on things, it's quite a serious case, and the worse it must be for the innocent suspect to see his name in connection with the case. Even if a person later becomes acquitted, and it turns out that the individual is innocent, it's the wrong person who's been brought to town, this person can be convicted in people's eyes because the media has printed pictures or otherwise identified this person. This can be a stamp that can be attached to the person's life out. A life can be completely unjustly destroyed. Of course, the police have to do everything in their power not to aim or go to arrest wrong people or innocent people. But the media also have a great responsibility, and they should know that in Norway no one is guilty until a wise man is convicted. It was this that in time was the background for me to make my proposal. The intention was just to guarantee the legal security of the individual, for ordinary people, to protect innocent people from being branded and hung out in the media. With my proposal, of course, I also wanted to ensure privacy. It is produced by some as if this is an attack on the press. It's not in any way. I'm glad we live in a democracy where we have a free press and the media plays an important role. But there are already some restrictions for which media can write and distribute. One can e.g. not passed on injuring claims, cannot come up with racist statements, and it is also such that some pornographic depictions are forbidden. So there are bounds, and all of these have legitimate purposes. In recent times, we have seen a new and, in my opinion, negative trend, especially on TV. Now it is the case that the TV is present, a film on the scene, a filming it aimed at its house, a filming whole neighborhood, and I have yet to see that arrests have almost been sent directly. This is done without asking questions and without stating that the person who lives in this house is targeted, but can still be innocent – it may happen that the police are wrong. A film shoots arrests without considering that there may be the wrong person being arrested. It might be the neighbor's son who's actually being taken into police custody, not the perpetrator. And then it's pretty bad that these people are going to be hung out in the media. Legal certainty suggests that the media should also focus more on themselves. Norway is a safe country, in fact Norway is one of the countries with the lowest crime rates. This impression is not given when it comes to Norwegian media and their coverage of crime and crime in general. In fact, I would say that the image created by Norwegian media in this country when it comes to crime is about as opaque as the image created by Soviet media by the general situation in the Soviet Union before Communism falls. In my opinion, the media spend too much time on this type of journalism, and in such a way that innocent people can get into trouble. I want to claim that people who are familiar, who have a known face, or people who are in an emerging position in Norwegian society, so to speak, do not have legal certainty. If such a person is suspected of something, it is freely available to the media to dig and dig in the situation and privacy of the individual. I see that some commentators laugh crocodile tears either it's for the manager of Norway Bank who had to go off, or recreational trainers. But it does not help later to ask questions about the role of the media when people have been exposed for a long time in the way that the case has been. These things that I have at the end of the day may be a little bit side by side with the concrete proposal that is being put forward today, but I still think it's right to make it clear because it's part of the general picture, and the general picture is, in my opinion, a little bit alarming. And it must, as I said, be in the interest of the lawmakers to try to protect the individual. It's the only intention behind the proposal that I'm making in my time, and which fortunately still seems to have support in this room, even though some parties don't follow up the way they did at the time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-12-lower.ana.ud2353e199	I would first like to highlight the background to the law review. The committee inquiry into the protection of sources and the public in the courts was carried out with some extensive dissenting views. However, the main tendency of the hearing bodies has been positive to a certain extent of protection of sources and to highlight the principle of disclosure in the proceedings. Key to the rationale for source protection is to facilitate mass media to capture information that could provide a basis for debate and thus strengthen the ability of the press to act as a real counterweight to critical societal conditions. The rules on disclosure in the court proceedings shall contribute to the knowledge of the judiciary and increase the scope for control and criticism, thereby enhancing the confidence and quality of justice. In some cases, consideration of sources of protection and of the public may include: privacy, national security, an efficient and sound process and the proper disclosure of the matter. The objective is that the statutory audit should lead to a timely and balanced balance of these cross-cutting considerations. I would like to focus my attention on some of the amendments proposed for the best possible performance of these objectives. As a general rule, media witnesses are entitled today to refuse to answer questions about the identity of a source of information. The legislative proposal aims to strengthen the protection of sources by narrowing the scope to exceptionally impose witness obligations. The government is in favour of a very strong source of protection for purely community-related journalism. This is particularly the case where conditions that are of social importance have been identified. Source protection must then be close to absolute. In any case, the identity of the source must be required to be essential for the clarification of the matter in order to be subject to the obligation to testify. Furthermore, after an overall assessment, the right must be required to consider that the identity should be provided and that important social interests warrant it. I have noticed that the Committee agrees in its position with the proposal to remove the current rule that ‘explanation may be required where the article or notification contains information which must be presumed to have been provided in the event of a criminal offence of professional secrecy’, and that the Committee emphasises that the change will lead to a better protection of the source in cases where the obligation of professional secrecy may be breached. However, the Committee points out that, in the event of a serious breach of professional secrecy, the right to respect for privacy may be subject to derogations. The majority of the Committee also states that, in the event of a breach of the obligation of professional secrecy, a part must be taken to ensure that the protection of sources is not put into effect. It is crucial that, following a concrete assessment, ‘important societal interests’ exist in order to derogate from the protection of sources. Any breach of professional secrecy would then form an important element in the assessment of whether the obligation to testify should be imposed. I think the Committee's opinions here will give the courts good guidance for the future. Strict demands are being made today for the prosecution authority to decide on the search of editorial premises. The government proposed that this should apply not only to ‘editorial premises’, but to ‘editorial premises or equivalent’. Furthermore, the Government proposed stricter requirements for the formal procedure in such decisions. The reasons for the proposals are that such search of editorial premises has important aspects of the protection of a free press and of the protection of sources. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee agrees with these proposals on stricter requirements for the formal procedure for deciding on the search of editorial premises. The proposals contained in the proposal relating to disclosure rules in the proceedings aim at marking the principle that legal proceedings are public, even if special types of cases should be subject to specific rules. The rules should therefore be based on publicity, i.e.: open doors and access to records. In principle, restrictions should be decided separately by the court in the individual case. The government is proposing a somewhat reinforced protection for the perpetrator against involuntary photography and filming outside the court meetings. The government also proposes that in certain situations, witnesses and insults should also be protected against involuntary photography and filming. Especially for insults in violent and moral matters, I believe that such protection is desirable. The proposal shall be promoted, inter alia: in the light of Olav Akselsen's proposal in Document No. 8:75 for 1994-95. Finally, I have noticed that the majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party and the Progress Party, ask the Ministry to make proposals to the Stortinget on the necessary legislative changes, so that the intention of the proposal to prohibit the publication of names of suspected, intentional or accused persons in criminal matters is also respected. I'll come back to these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-12-lower.ana.ud2353e227	So far out in the debate is mostly said, but I will link a few considerations to two themes: one is the position of the victims in legal proceedings, and the other is the victim of media overload, linked to the proposal of the Workers' Party and the Progress Party. In the case of legal proceedings, these are generally public. That is how both the European Convention on Human Rights and the United Nations Commission on Human Rights will have it. But both of these have exceptions for publicity where publicity will harm the interests of justice. The Judicial Committee shall take particular account of the situation of the victims in relation to access to requests for closed doors in legal proceedings. The Committee says that ‘it is becoming a growing problem that witnesses do not dare to stand up in court because they fear reprisals from criminal environments’. The Committee therefore welcomes the introduction of the possibility of closing the doors ‘for the sake of information’ in criminal proceedings. It must not be such that important information for the legal proceedings is not disclosed because the public in itself hinders this. With regard to the protection of privacy of accused persons, the entire Committee agrees that there shall be a photo and film ban in connection with legal meetings. These rules are extended to victims and witnesses in accordance with the increased protection we want to give them. Nor does the Committee object to the use of names and images by the media of persons convicted. This point is related to the fact that a majority of the Labour Party and the Progress Party wish to prohibit the publication of names for purposes of pre-trial conviction as an absolute prohibition. Here, the Right and the Government disagree, although we also believe that the media should be careful to give names for purposes prior to judgment. Today we have a regulation of this through the press's own 'Be careful' poster, and the reason why we do not support the prohibition is that we believe more in mobilising responsibility by the press itself than on absolute prohibitions. I am very much in agreement with the description given by the representatives Aksensen, Nistad and the case-rapporteur Simonsen in terms of the infringement committed by the press, and which we all know about. These infringements are committed both in relation to criminal cases and in relation to a number of other cases. Individuals are accused of lack of integrity, of lack of ethical attitudes, etc., and for those who experience being hanged out unjustly, it certainly feels crushing. Many of us sitting here in the hall even have their own experiences or have knowledge of people who have been hanged out in this way. But what we don't have to forget is that today all these issues are regulated by the 'Be careful' poster, and if we take out part of what is regulated by this poster, by replacing it with a law ban, we also in my opinion reduce the meaning of the 'Be careful' poster, and I think it's a dangerous way to go, because press people and newspapers most people take a responsibility not to trample on individuals and their closest ones. I'm afraid to reduce the importance of self-justice, because I think that in the long term it might as well give us a rougher press, which, within the limits of the law, makes it the maximum. That means that the right has great sympathy for the intention behind the bill, namely to protect individuals, but in the long run I believe that individuals in this country, whether charged with crime or hanging out for other things, are better protected by the fact that the ‘Take care’ poster is held high by the press itself and that they are working to comply with it. And on that basis, the Right will not support the proposal put forward by the Labour Party and the Advance Party, but hope and believe that other instruments can bring us the same distance.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-12-lower.ana.ud2353e248	Those who speak the following shall have a speaking time of up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-12-lower.ana.ud2353e252	Just a few things at the end of the debate. The representative Marthinsen spoke of an absolute ban on reproducing the names of suspected, intentional or accused persons. Let me just make it clear that in our comments we have made it clear that there are exceptions, among other things. in police investigations, but the exceptions must, of course, be defined in the draft law which the Ministry will hopefully have to submit to the Stortinget. The argument against supporting this proposal is from the representative, Mr Marthinsen, and also from the Right, I understand that there is not enough overstepping. No, it may not be that many people are overtramped. Personally, I have the impression that there are quite a few. But the most important thing is that these overtramps have such serious and devastating consequences for those individuals and individuals who are affected. Only in the period that has passed since we gave the cancellation and until today, I have been made aware of a case where a suspect was hanged out with names in the newspapers, and he then tried to commit suicide and the port of a psychiatric institution. Well, it's possible that this person was guilty. But if he was innocent, then this is the consequences of the press's work. I am surprised that the Christian People's Party, which is based on the biblical charity commandment, places less emphasis on the consideration of the victims and individuals than on the sales figures of the press. And I think right-wing cowards do not dare stand up with straight back and take a settlement with the press, but hide behind the “Be careful” poster – a poster that is not a law, which is used only on festive occasions, and which the press only cares about when it fits.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-12-lower.ana.ud2353e261	Actually, I wasn't going to take the floor, but I have to say it surprises me that the representative Simonsen must necessarily suspect the motives of other people and other parties then to those degrees. Instead, if you listened to what was said, you wouldn't say so much wrong from the Stortings pulpit. Let me again underline: I'm sure that everyone in this room – then I don't think of the few souls who are here right now, but on a full scale – has the same intention that things should be as best they can for as many people as possible. There's no reason to try to suspect our motives that way. Of course, the Christian People's Party is concerned with the victims, but of course we are also – as I believe the representative Simonsen is – concerned about marketing ourselves and our thoughts and ideas to the widest possible audience. We're also concerned that the press has the ability to write things without being detailed, that we as representatives of the Storting sit on their shoulders and tell them that you should say this, and you shouldn't say this. I believe that both the media and the representatives of big business serve to be sober and to act in such a way as to impose responsibility on each other, and when you commit an infringement of responsibility, you have to take the consequences that this entails.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-12-lower.ana.ud2353e270	Of course, I do not want to attribute bad motives to other representatives. I'm talking about consequences. The consequence of the fact that the press is allowed to name suspected, intentional and accused people is that innocent people commit suicide or end up in psychiatric institutions. The consequence of this being lawful is that other people are being destroyed. This consequence can be prevented by Stortinget voting on our proposal. The same is true in so far as the reproof that the honourable President was so pleasant to give me at the beginning of the meeting, where he suggested that I meant "other representatives" intended to protect the evil of our society. That was not exactly what was said. What was said was that that's the consequence, that's what they're doing in practice. And the logical argument for this is this: if we all agree that it actually happens sometimes that malicious people deliberately get a media agency to print claims and lie about other people who are grossly injuring and venerating, and then by law protect the identity of these people, then you use the law to protect the evil that these people commit. That's my logic, and I look forward to someone proving that it's an illogical reasoning.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-12-lower.ana.ud2353e280	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-12-lower.ana.ud2353e286	Odelstinget then goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-12-lower.ana.ud2353e292	During the debate, Mr Simonsen, on behalf of the Progress Party, put forward the proposals No. 1 and 2, which are included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-12-lower.ana.ud2353e410	The President will then refer to voting on a proposal for a new third paragraph, proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Law of 13 August 1915 No. 5 concerning the courts:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-12-lower.ana.ud2353e429	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-12-lower.ana.ud2353e436	Then the proposal fell by 54 to 13 votes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-12-lower.ana.ud2353e678	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law of 22 May 1981 No 25 on the procedure of criminal proceedings is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-12-lower.ana.ud2353e723	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-12-lower.ana.ud2353e753	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-12-lower.ana.ud2353e761	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-12-lower.ana.ud2353e771	In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, capital B is to be sent to the Stortinget.
