ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e35	This is the case where the Norwegian increase on the recommendation of a no-government is to conclude an agreement whereby the Schengen Agreement to which Norway acceded in 1997, which was more clearly an intergovernmental agreement, is now to become an agreement between Norway and the EU on the basis of the Treaty of Amsterdam, with clear supranational features. This means, among other things: Norway’s interests can only be asserted towards the EU after the EU countries have agreed through discussions and negotiations, and after the EU countries have reached a common position. This means that the Norwegian potential to influence the content of cooperation has been significantly reduced. If we fundamentally disagree with any of the EU Member States, we can go against it, but this is also a major risk of the whole agreement being cancelled at the same time. This will place strong commitments on future freedom of action and on future debates on EU adaptations. Now this draft clause has been slightly modified, and SV warns that, of course, in the future, we will address all issues in which we ourselves have views on adaptations to Schengen cooperation and to the EU, without using the draft clause as an excuse to avoid going into reality on the issues that are coming. Now Norway becomes the EU's external external frontier, and at the same time the border controls for persons between Norway and the EU are completed. Norwegian freedom of action in the field of asylum and refugee policy is being changed. A refugee who has met border controls in one EU country cannot be tried in Norway. What this means with regard to questions about EU countries as transit countries, or with regard to agreements about first countries, which are concerned with asylum seekers, can only show the future, but there are many points that indicate that the opportunities for refugees to come to Norway and try their asylum case are considerably limited. Then border controls between countries are removed and replaced by surveillance systems throughout the EU/Schengen area, and that means, in principle, a new regime for privacy. Such a comprehensive EU adaptation takes place without a wide-ranging debate among Norwegian voters. What could a no-government with a yes-majority in Stortinget otherwise have done? They could have put their position on this matter, but they knew, of course, from the very first moment that they would then go to a defeat, and the Waksenås statement took the realities inward. If you weren't willing to go to a defeat in this case, the central government time would have a date stamp, just like ketchup bottles and milk cartons when they go over time. In SV, we have a certain understanding that the government didn't get on this line, for all governments where no-parties participate, would have been in the same dilemma as long as there's a yes-multiple on the Storting. What SV believes, however, is that the government could somehow have challenged the majority of the population to argue for its own policy, could have invited as much as possible to participate in a public debate on important issues, could have challenged the content of the agreement on how to manage the referendum result and made sure that the Storting had proper time to deal with this rather than rushing through the matter, ensuring that the notification and legislative changes, the concrete changes, came at the same time, and provided for a transitional arrangement, if needed, that would ensure proper treatment. They could have challenged the scope of the agreement, what has come to it since 1997 and what makes this agreement more extensive than the previous Schengen Agreement, and they could have challenged it and proposed that it be dealt with under the Basic Law, Section 93. You had at all enough to take off from a no-regier if they wanted to. But the government has chosen to walk as quietly in the doors as possible, rushing the matter through in the Storting and hoping that it will pass without people noticing it. In this case, the government parties had achieved more in opposition than they do in position, because they do not use the government position they have to challenge the public debate and the majority of the population. The central part of Stortinget is trying to keep the partition high. It is only for the sake of its own members and its own voters, and not for the actual outcome of the case. Here the Senterparte plays boldly and freely on two horses. They're obedient to the government. Johan J. Jakobsen said correctly earlier today that they had tried to raise the matter in the Government. But they haven't in any way speculated or protested so that people see it. But in Stortinget, the Center Party protests for the whole world. Now Johan J. Jakobsen surpasses me in horse racing, and he also surpasses me in the ability to play on two horses at the same time. This will be a pattern in several EU cases. It will be a pattern, among other things. in the adaptation matters we are now looking at in relation to the Norwegian economy. And all of us who used the argument that we should not join the Union because it bound us to conduct Right-wing policy in economic policy! Now the Progress Party and the Right are deciding important parts of the government's economic policy. Similarly, it will apply in environmental policy. What, then, is the substance of this agreement? When all personal controls are to be removed between countries, more stringent external border controls, including police cooperation and monitoring, must be compensated. The argument for maintaining passport freedom in the Nordic region. However, the freedom of passports and the abolition of border controls can quickly lead to an obligation to legitimise anywhere and at any time in order to have a certain level of control over an area with 350 million inhabitants. We're going to have common rules on entry, and the EU will hardly accept a weak point, i.e. a more liberal practice in any country to manage an external border. For Norway, this means that we are introducing visa obligations for 32 new countries to Norway today, among them important countries of cooperation for Norway in Africa, and countries that until now Norway has seen no reason to impose visa obligations on them on their own. So this means higher boundaries to the world around it. Norway must pursue the same asylum and refugee policy as in the EU. It doesn't make a big difference to the current situation, but we now have government parties who initially thought that this practice was too strict and wanted to do something about it. The Norwegian external border control will also be changed. It has to. For the past, this has been about providing access for people who have come to our borders, to a country with four million people and thus limited opportunities. Now Norway will be the limit for an area of 350 million people. This means that there can be significant registers, large common data registers, such as SIS and SIRENE, which are more difficult to control. What we won after the Lund Commission can be lost here tonight. The Lund Commission found irregularities and illegalities in one of Europe's outskirts. But we have now received a separate control body under Stortinget, and there has not been a similar dishonour about the surveillance services in other countries. This means that there is a great deal of fear that monitoring can take place in the light of the so-called threat to public order and security, that understanding of this can be different between EU countries, and that what is transparent in Norway is now entering an unbridled system simply because the population base is larger. One argument that has been put forward is that these are effective measures to combat crime. That's an important argument. It is a real argument if it was such that it was thought that this would actually lead to more effective fight against crime. Here, however, there is a question of whether it is more effective to combat crime by changing the control of persons at the borders of Norway and at the borders of the EU countries. Or could it be that crime is not European, but actually international, and that it is Interpol, and not Europol, which is the main means of combating it? Is it not also possible to believe that there is a criminal among those who are already citizens of the European Union?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e68	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e71	The head of No to the EU, Lisbeth Holand, has repeated on behalf of SV earlier today a story that has gone as a walking story in the Schengen debate in recent months. This is a person from New Zealand named Stephanie Mills, who has been declared a persona non grata in France and has thus not entered the Netherlands – according to the history of hiking. The representative of Holand has raised the claim that it was because of the Schengen archives that Stephanie Mills did not enter the Netherlands. Unlike the representative of Holand, I have not seen those Schengen archives. I cannot therefore show either one or the other. I would like to ask Kristin Halvorsen to tell us where in the Schengen archives it is said that it is because Stephanie Mills has participated in demonstrations against nuclear bombs in the Pacific that she has not entered the Netherlands, or whether it is the case with individual cases, that there may in fact be other reasons for not getting in, and that it may be difficult to take individual cases on such matters as this. Then Kristin Halvorsen also repeats a claim that has been made several times, namely that if an asylum seeker does not get asylum in, for example. Italy or Sweden, neither can he or she ‘try’ in Norway — that’s what the representative Halvorsen used. Where does the representative, Halvorsen, find evidence of this? Is it not true that we can conduct our own asylum and refugee policy even when we participate in the Schengen cooperation? And is it not the case that the EU countries' extensive cooperation on refugee and asylum issues falls outside the scope of the Schengen cooperation we are now going to participate in?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e80	First of all, this case of Stephanie Mills, who was refused entry into the Netherlands because she was entered by France in the SIS registers because of her protests against the Mururoa Island bombings. These are the facts of the matter. I have not seen anyone from Norway question the actual content of that matter. On the contrary, there is a very comprehensive Minister of Justice who answers the following: ‘The ministry does not have sufficient insight into this matter to comment on the specific case’ — and so on in general. But we have to look at the whole logic of how this is going to work. If it is that people can be registered in the SIS register not only because of criminal behaviour, but because of being a threat to public order, it will be the individual country that then wants to register such a resident, which defines what it is to be a threat. In this way we fear that this might work, and we have not got anything from the government that would tell us that it does not. So to the question of asylum seekers. I am somewhat surprised at how the lack of logic in what Schengen cooperation actually involves does not mean that we are not taking into account the political consequences it will have. To have one common external border between the EU, Norway and Iceland in relation to the rest of the world, it will not be possible for a person seeking asylum to try out on land by country, especially in combination with the rules of the first country.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e89	I would like to ask the representative Kristin Halvorsen whether she believes that Stephanie Mills will not be able to obtain admission to Norway because France does not like what Stephanie Mills did in the atomic demonstrations. Can Kristin Halvorsen say yes or no whether it is such that we are free to take Stephanie Mills into this country – whether Norway decides it itself? Then I record that Kristin Halvorsen almost speculates that because we now have a common external border against illegal immigration, because we have rules on the first-country treatment of asylum applications, and because we have a cooperation on asylum and refugee procedures, we can no longer pursue our own asylum policy, and we cannot say yes to anyone who has received no other place. There is nothing in the Schengen Convention or in this agreement that would indicate that this is the case, and the Minister of Justice, in reply to the Foreign Affairs Committee, has stressed very strongly that, in the case of asylum and refugee-related issues, the ‘Schengen Convention is limited to defining the procedures for clarifying which country is obliged to deal with an asylum application’. Other EU cooperation on asylum and refugee policy is therefore not part of this cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e96	Stephanie Mills did not enter the Netherlands because she did not know that she was registered in the SIS register. If she had known that, and if she had known the reason for it, she could have informed it by a special application. If she had come to the Norwegian border without knowing that she was registered in the SIS register – and this may apply to quite a number of people – she would have been rejected. If you know that, you have an opportunity to apply on the basis of that. But there will be quite a number of people who can be roll-in on the basis of political activity — not criminal acts or any particular rabiat demonstration behaviour — and who can come in such a situation. So to the point of asylum seekers. It is not only SV who claim that this will be an effective way of keeping asylum seekers away from Norway, and one way in which we will have to adapt to the asylum and refugee policies of the EU countries. That's what the police say, that's what all organisations in Norway are working on asylum issues. And that's exactly the procedure that Marit Nybakk refers to here, that's going to go through, that's the rule of the first country. The whole logic of the agreement is that when an agreement is to be reached with the EU countries, Norway and Iceland on a common external border, it is precisely because a common external border should be established as a balance between the free movement of persons between the countries within the area. And if it's not going to have any effect on having similar policies and procedures no matter what limit you reach, I have to say that I'm amazed at Marit Nybakk's objections to this, because I thought this was just one of the points of Schengen cooperation on the part of the EU countries.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e103	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e106	Negotiations on the Schengen Agreement took place over a longer period until December 1996. The agreement was examined in June 1997 and adopted in spite of the fact that a number of parties considered that it was a point in itself to wait for the agreement to be considered after the conclusion of the agreement in relation to EU cooperation. The size nevertheless chose to deal with the agreement, which the left at the time thought was unwise, and which I think the further development has shown was unwise. And to clarify: the left voted against the agreement in June 1997, but had to note that it was a majority in the Stortningen for the agreement as it was adopted. Then we, as opposed to the agreement, are regrettably aware that the September 1997 elections provided no basis for a changed position on Norway's accession to the Schengen Agreement. In view of the fact that the Storting had taken a position on what we are told was the material content of the agreement, and that what had then become unclear because of the inclusion in the EU cooperation was issues related to organisation – what is now commonly called institutional cooperation – chose the government parties in connection with the waxenås negotiations and in connection with the government entry to take note of the fact that there would be a majority in the Great Britain for a Schengen connection, and that, therefore, the work involved negotiating the institutional solution vis-à-vis the EU would be done. However, what was underlined at the same time was that a thorough work would be done in this context and that, not least in relation to the constitutional issues, one would take this in a much more thorough way than the government of Jagland had done, which was an independent point that was criticised by the government parties in the context of the treatment of the Schengen Agreement in June 1997. I also believe that, after all, we should recognise that it would not be as easy to go against the Schengen Agreement today as it was in June 1997. Because when the relationship was that cooperation had started, and Sweden and Denmark had joined the agreement, it would in itself have consequences in relation to the Nordic passport freedom, consequences that could have been managed in another way if Norway had gone against this cooperation in the spring of 1997. What we can see from the proposition under consideration today is that the Government has done an excellent job with regard to the negotiations for which the Government took responsibility, namely to negotiate the institutional solution. I think it is worth noting what is in the position of the majority in the committee, and which has been very clearly highlighted here today by representatives Marit Nybakk and Siri Frost Sterri, at least, that the institutional solution that has now been reached appears in many ways to be a better deal for Norway than the institutional solution that was in the previous agreement. What at least appears very clearly in the proposition is that this government has taken the constitutional question seriously in a completely different way from what the government of Jagland did. Now it's not that slit meters in a proposition always need to express thoroughness in work, but I'm not in doubt that it applies to this. And if you look at the proposition that is now presented in relation to the proposition that was made last time, then there's no doubt that these questions have been taken in a completely different and far more serious way, and that's actually an important point in itself. What is then interesting is that the proposal highlights the fact that the reference group appointed provided useful input that was of value and importance for the negotiations on the Schengen Agreement. Once we have a better solution now under this government than the agreement negotiated under the government of Jagland, we should not, in fact, ignore the fact that these constitutional and legal issues have just been taken much more seriously, perhaps also have contributed to the negotiation of a better solution in these areas than was achieved in the previous round. Otherwise, in relation to the question of one or other means of agreement, in other words whether to adhere to the Basic Law § 26 on the general provision of the law on the conclusion of the treaty, or the Basic Law § 93, the Left takes note that those who have been consulted on these matters have considered that the most appropriate application of the Basic Law is § 26, and the Left will therefore refer to it in the vote. In addition, there is reason to stress that Schengen cooperation is a continuous cooperation, a cooperation that will continue this year, and a good part of the counter-representations that those who do not want Norwegian membership of what this cooperation has had, have not necessarily gone primarily on the system as it is today, but there has been a great deal of question as to what this will develop over time. There has been an equal amount of progress in the future in what has been a major concern. And then I think it is important that we have an active position on Schengen cooperation. In fact, I also believe it is important to have a government that takes seriously the issues we have been particularly concerned about – privacy, asylum policy, refugee policy and border control. I believe that the government we now have is the best government Norway can have in relation to being a participant in the Schengen cooperation. And it's no harm that the Minister of Justice is from the party he is.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e123	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e126	The left, like the other government parties, is in opposition to the Government, and it will then be the opposition parties that can support the Government in this matter. Of course, you can also ask the question after all the exciting posts that have been held from the government parties, whether it is such that the government also disagrees with the government on this issue. The government has had a mandate from the Storting to negotiate with the EU. But it will be very difficult to give the government a mission to do something special. So the government is free to believe what the government actually means, and since that is the case, I choose to believe that the government here actually believes what the government means, and is in favour of this agreement. Now the government says that it is not necessary – and not even desirable or right – to deal with this matter under the Constitution § 93, and then I have to ask: How does the representative Hove, as a representative of one of the government parties, view that it can be claimed from the Stortinget that this must be dealt with under the Constitution § 93? Is it so that the rest of us in the Storting can see this as a distrust of the Government's way of dealing with this issue?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e136	I don't see myself as being in opposition to the Government on this issue. We are in the situation that the Left has intended to vote for the agreement that the Government has entered into and that it has submitted. This will easily be a dispute over words and assumptions. The Left has taken seriously is certainly the same as the Government has taken seriously: it was accepted that Norway had acceded to the Schengen Agreement as far as what is called the substantive content, that is, the rules on how cooperation should be within Schengen, and that what remained was to negotiate the issue of the organisation of cooperation, and how Norway's participation in cooperation should be, including what influence Norway should thus have on cooperation. It is precisely in relation to these questions left that the government has done a very good job, and that we are very pleased with the outcome of the negotiations, on the premises that were then laid. It's on the premise that the Left is also in favour of the proposition that exists, that's the question that we're going to address today. So far I don't feel in opposition to the Government, but there has been a defense that, perhaps in its form, has been somewhat different from what the opposition has given, compared to the Government. When it comes to the constitutional question, I have to say that interpreting the Constitution is primarily the responsibility of the Stortingen and not of the Government. To decide whether to apply § 26 or § 93 here is primarily the responsibility of Stortingen and not the responsibility of the Government. The government has given a advice, and the Left chooses to follow that advice, but in fact does not see it as an expression of distrust if anyone should have a different opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e145	I would like to begin by complimenting the representative, Hove, on a neat and proper statement, where I think there was a connection between premise and conclusion. It was actually so that for a moment I didn't recognize the Left from the old days. Obviously, all the left-wing people here believe the same thing, whether they are in a big deal or in a government. It might be interesting to ask Mr. Wait how it feels now that another government party feels so different, regardless of where they are, and especially after Mr. The court rightly compliments the government for negotiating a good deal. If I should be a little bit critical of Mr. Hove: He must actually admit that it has been possible to get a better deal than the Left thought at the previous crossroads. If you just take a positive approach to the negotiations, try to take advantage of the opportunities of partners, and not initially meet them with distrust, it's amazing what you can get from good institutional agreements. It must also follow this justifiable boast as Mr. How do we get there, as a cross of thought, how the Centre Party here in the Chamber will not only deal with the matter under a different paragraph of the Constitution, but even will not even recommend the institutional arrangement as Mr. Howe thinks is so good. Well, then, sir. How does it feel that the Central Party has taken over the old role of the Left?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e158	History writing is always exciting. I must be allowed to start by making clear that the history that was the basis for the final issue of the representative of Shaastad, I do not acknowledge. To be surprised that the Left believes the same thing in different bodies does not, at least, become a left-wing representative. On the other hand, which, not so long ago, I was given the opportunity to express from this pulpit, is also the situation that I, as a left-wing man, very much appreciate the doubt and the constructive significance of doubt in very many contexts. And when there's reason to give praise to the Government for what it's done here, it's probably just because there's been some people who have doubted the cooperation you've entered into, who's been negotiating, and who might therefore have had an opportunity to achieve a better solution than the one you achieved if you were completely enthusiastic about the cooperation and thus didn't think it was so important which framework this was put into. The relationship between the Central Party in Stortinget and the Central Party in the government, I would like first of all to leave to the Center Party to express myself. For my part, I think this is to live with in a pretty straightforward way, although it's not necessarily the most desirable situation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e167	If the no-parties never bother so much that they are still against the Schengen Agreement, it is only the central party that makes an attempt – and I will actually give that honor to the Central Party – to stop the agreement now, both by voting against the agreement and by proposing to use Grundlova §93. Unfortunately, it is only to state that the Schengen comrades have received new grants and new members today. The left recommends that the agreement be adopted by a simple majority, despite the fact that three – three in all – of the reference groups that assessed the agreement assessed it to be fully at the limit of what the Constitution permits. Then I register that the representative Hove uses the reference group and various other representatives here as witnesses to the truth that this is a better agreement than the no-party said no at last. But, of course, it's not. If the representative reads it well, he sees them in the reference group saying that the agreement gives less influence, but that it is easy to get out of it, and that is a comfort. So that's what we can try to do. The government reference group has established a dynamic basic law interpretation, and it is such that everything the Storting does will have an impact on the interpretation of its Constitution. On a case-by-case basis, Stortinget has affected the barriers and weakened minority protection, said Liv Monica Bargem Stubholt at a seminar last week. So the left is following the government's advice despite the representative Hove saying that the Storting can make its own choices. But is not the representative Hove aware that by not using § 93, the Left is involved in weakening minority protection by its cross roads?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e180	Constitutional interpretation is one of the more difficult things to throw at. We should be aware that one of the main provisions here – and now at the risk of the memory playing a puzzle – has the same wording as it had from 1814, namely the Basic Law § 26. The second, Basic Law § 93, is barely 40 years old. It is important to be clear that these constitutional provisions – and in fact § 93, although not more than 40 years old – are written at a time when international cooperation was far less developed than it is today. And now it is enough that, with regard to relations with the EU and issues related to the EU, the situation will be that the representative Valle will have a strong wish and the representative Hove a relatively clear desire for significant minority protection in relation to the Storting. But in other contexts, I am not a stranger to the idea that it will be us who can just stand up to positions and views that it may be a clear point that a majority in the Grand Duchy will be able to adopt agreements on international cooperation without there being too strong a constraint in the Constitution against this. Therefore, I will not, on a principle basis, agree that this is a point to interpret the Basic Law as restrictively as possible, without, in two minutes, wanting to come up with opinions that give me too strong a commitment to what attitudes I am going to have in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e187	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e190	I am not going to go into the depths of the institutional and constitutional aspects of the agreement the Government today invites the Storting to approve. The rapporteur-in-chief Marit Nybakk has presented the views of the Labour Party on these issues in an excellent way. The most important thing for me is to note that we now have an agreement for approval with the same material content as the Stortinget on 9 June 1997 agreed to ratify. It is worth noting that the number of committees — all except SV — gives the Government the right to have the absolute right to terminate this agreement better than the original agreement of December 1996. As a non-member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, it is interesting to read the committee setting and observe the movement of the Centre Party from and to the Committee majority, stressing the need for the Centre Party to play an opposition role at the same time as they are in position. We have also had this fully demonstrated here today at the Central Party theatre show. The proposal states that Denmark, Sweden and Finland have ratified the Treaty of Amsterdam. This implies that maintaining the Nordic passport union, which has passed between all Nordic countries since 1954, requires Norway and Iceland to have an agreement with the EU that provides for participation in the Schengen cooperation after integration into the EU. Without such an agreement, the other three Nordic countries would be obliged to build an external border control against Norway. As regards judicial cooperation, it is important to take into account that this cooperation within the EU is a reality and already includes our neighbouring countries. The Treaty of Amsterdam transfers certain parts of judicial cooperation from Pillar III to Pillar I in EU cooperation. This applies to both external and internal border controls and asylum policy. Schengen-sceptics have claimed that by doing so, we are depriving ourselves of national governance. The Foreign Minister’s reply to the Committee is clear in this respect by saying that the procedures and procedure for Norway and Iceland will be bound by a proposed Schengen rule, regardless of which pillar each provision comes under the EU system. In addition, it is important to note that this conversion within the EU, among other things: is an organisation for the forthcoming eastward enlargement. For Norway, it could be of great importance to combat organised international crime, that a good and effective link, if any, with the forthcoming new EU Member States is also ensured through Schengen. Just the relationship with and the fight against international crime must be the main reason for participation in police cooperation under the Schengen umbrella. The majority of the Judicial Committee is of the opinion that Schengen cooperation will be an important part of Norway’s police cooperation with other countries. Borders must not be a greater barrier to police than to drug syndicates, terrorists and other cross-border criminals. Although there is no consequence of the Schengen Agreement, Europol will also become an important body in this fight. Some EU sceptics have set this body up against Interpol. This is a crazy problem. These bodies are complementary and complementary, and will both be important bodies for Norway in their own way. As regards both Europol and the Eurodac Convention, which is based on the registration of the identity of asylum seekers, the Minister of Justice has been very clear in his reply to the Foreign Affairs Committee: any link must be provided to the Storting as a matter of its own. The Minister of Justice has also given very clear answers to the Committee on the other questions raised. This is not least the case for asylum and refugee policy. In my view, the answers, which follow the wording as an annex, take the brunt of most of the criticism of the Schengen Agreement in this field. The aim is not to restrict immigration. Immigration policies can be more or less liberal in individual countries. Norway will remain free to define Norwegian asylum and refugee policies. It's the illegal immigration we want to live on. Finally, some words on the control of third country fishing vessels and the number of control points. The government's response and the press release of 16 March from the Ministry of Justice, which describes the 81 border crossing points proposed with a total of 310 points of call, seem very satisfactory. The objective of non-blocking border control measures to the pursuit of business seems to have been well-managed. This issue, as well as the other legal aspects relating to the Schengen Agreement, will also be dealt with in the Justice Committee and the Stortingeet by the motion for a resolution promoted later this month.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e226	I would like to start by saying that this has been a strange debate. Here you have war between two fronts – at least I'm recording that there are two camps here. One camp says that this is the agreement to perceive, and the other says it is the exact opposite. Based on that, I think it must be reasonable that it will soon begin to call a small bell for someone each in the hall. The Schengen Agreement currently under consideration should be suspended, as it is an overly far-reaching agreement that regulates both registration, personal checks and border crossings. The latter will have the greatest impact on the coast. This will clearly affect the ability to drive fish and land fish where fishermen may be best paid for. All of this will also have major consequences for coastal settlements. This agreement that we have is based on a five-year transitional arrangement. And this is in line with the Treaty of Amsterdam. After that time – when these five years are over – the directives coming from the EU will be followed. Today, we see that the fishing industry, financial agencies and local authorities, which previously had some influence on the decisions that concerned the fishing industry and North Norway in particular, now have a weakened impact on the central authorities. What opportunities do they have to influence an EU bureaucracy, when the combination of a low level of knowledge and a great distance to the problems is not the best? The last play is the introduction of working time rules for fishermen. The working time shall be from nine to four. Inevitably, it is necessary to suffer severe pain when the decision-making authority is to be subject to such bodies. The County of Nordland has required the approval of 23 fishing reception ports in the county as Schengen ports. Similarly, the Troms Control Centre has asked that all fishing ports be given the same status. What the result is to the seventh and last, probably no one can answer today. At least there must be no doubt whatsoever that these requirements are weakened in any way. The agreement currently in place will not only be a major obstacle to the pursuit of the profession, but it will also have major cost implications and otherwise be a major nuisance to fishermen who are exposed to it. I guess that can't be the Big One's opinion. I would like to ask: why should it always be the districts it's going to go beyond? Because of what has been said here, and the great uncertainties that exist, I disagree that the Storting consents to the conclusion of this agreement. I must also finally say that I do not think the government has had a lucky hand on this matter, when it has come into such a demeanor as it is here now.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e245	The Government's Declaration of Accession presented the government parties' fundamental views on Schengen, as has been said earlier in this debate. However, the Government also argued that a majority in the United Kingdom wanted negotiations with the EU on institutional solutions for Norway’s and Iceland’s connection to Schengen cooperation. The majority considered this necessary after the integration of Schengen into the EU through the Treaty of Amsterdam. The Government stated that it would work to safeguard Norwegian interests, including: maintaining the Nordic passport union. The government also said that as good an agreement should be reached for Norway as possible. The Government considers that the agreement currently presented meets these conditions, gave the framework for the negotiations and the different starting points of the parties. On the part of the Government, it has been a crucial starting point for participation in transnational cooperation to be contrary to the people’s no in the referendum on EU membership. The EU, for its part, has had the Treaty basis as its starting point. The agreement to be concluded had to be compatible with the legal basis of EU cooperation. The agreement with the EU involves cooperation on a constitutional basis. In its assessment, the Government has stressed that the European Court of Justice and the European Commission are not given powers in Norway. Cooperation shall take place outside the EU institutional framework, in a joint body established specifically for that purpose. All issues covered by cooperation shall be discussed within the Joint Body. Norway and Iceland shall participate with all EU Member States and the Commission. The Joint Body shall meet at different levels, from expert level to political level, and all shall have the right to speak. The government has been very concerned about the constitutional aspects of the matter. The Government announced in the Adultås Declaration that it would carry out an assessment of constitutional issues related to the Agreement. In order to ensure an ongoing assessment of these during the negotiations with the EU, the Government decided last April to appoint a reference group of five independent legal experts to assist the negotiating delegation. The views expressed by the members of the Reference Group have been very valuable for the government's work, and it is also my understanding that this has been received positively in the Stortinget. The agreement defines the institutional solutions for Norway and Iceland’s relationship with the Schengen cooperation following its integration into the EU, i.e.: the application, implementation and further development of the Schengen acquis. The material scope of the agreement has not been negotiated. The new agreement replaces the 1996 cooperation agreement, but it is based on the same scope as that defined therein. I would like to stress that Norway and Iceland should decide separately on new rules developed in the context of Schengen cooperation. We are not bound by a rule without having been involved in discussing it in the joint body and then having accepted to implement it internally in Norway. The debate today has shown that there is a broad consensus in the Storting on the new agreement. The Government will focus on exploiting the opportunities offered by the agreement. Norwegian participation in Schengen cooperation will constitute a ‘listening post’ to the overall judicial and police cooperation in the EU. It follows from the agreement that Norway and Iceland should be kept informed through the Joint Body of activities in the EU relevant to Schengen cooperation but outside the scope of the Agreement. There is no doubt that it will be valuable to have better and faster access to information about these neighbouring areas than we would otherwise have. The Government is also pleased that the agreement opens up parliamentary cooperation. This was initially not part of the EU's negotiating arrangements. However, the government has been concerned about this. It is therefore positive that agreement has been reached that matters falling under the agreement can be discussed in the existing bilateral parliamentary cooperation between the European Parliament and, respectively, the Stortingen and Everything.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e264	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e267	I would first like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for an excellent job. I would like to thank him for the work done by the Government when it has negotiated an institutional agreement with the EU on participation in the Schengen cooperation – an agreement that can actually be said to be better than the previous one, not least because of the termination provisions. In relation to the previous post, I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to comment on the claim that the EU will now decide where Norway will have control points for foreign fishing vessels, i.e. third country fishing vessels, which came out from Falch's side. Johan J. Jakobsen said in a reply earlier today that the government has carried out a mission from the bulk of the population, and that all the government parties are actually opposed to this agreement. The Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed that the institutional solutions had been negotiated. I'd like to ask -- because if you ride two horses, you might be at risk to claim, to use a worn-out expression: The Committee has agreed with the Government’s assessments and conclusions on all issues presented by the Government and has taken into account the facts presented both in the proposal, in the communication and in the excellent replies received from the Committee, both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Justice. We have accepted the Government’s request for treatment before 1 May – which includes: cost me parts of the Easter holidays, President! I would then like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: are these documents written with the pen? Is the Government driving the Storing behind the light? Is the facts correct? Does the Government recommend ratification and use of the second paragraph of the Constitution and not of the Constitution § 93?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e279	Since the rapporteur has given me a compliment, I can send one back again. I also think that the rapporteur has done a good job in the majority position that exists and that the parties to the government have to a large extent said nice words about. With regard to the last question from the representative Nybakk, it is clear that the government does not want to lead the Storting behind the light. Of course, the government believes what it says when it recommends using the second paragraph of the Constitution. What we have said is that the legal experts we have consulted have considered that this was the basis for the present situation. If this had not been just an adjustment of the institutional conditions, the matter might have changed. But given the decision that the Storting has already taken, the Government's recommendation is that of the proposition – of course. With regard to the question from the representative Falch, it is not correct that the Schengen Agreement restricts landing sites for fish. The representative would be familiar with this if he – and also the representative Nybakk – had read the reply from the Minister of Justice dated 14 April 1999. The question of landing sites may be brought back in the case of the proposal submitted by the Ministry of Justice on the implementation of the Schengen Agreement. This is a practical issue and an economic issue which of course has budgetary implications, but which is not restricted by the Schengen Agreement in any way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e293	The Minister for Foreign Affairs stated in his speech that the Government would focus on exploiting the benefits of the Schengen Agreement. I take it as an assurance from the Minister for Foreign Affairs that the Government will have an active relationship with the Schengen Agreement, as the dynamic agreement this is actually. In the proposition, the Government itself points out that the institutional solutions negotiated are actually better than those underlying the 1997 agreement. I have already expressed my satisfaction with – that the government here has been competent. It is not in any way to deny the government’s negotiating power that I am asking for the Foreign Minister’s assessment, but nevertheless: it may well have been that the fact that the majority in spring 1997 adopted the Schengen Agreement, before the EU had concluded its negotiations on the Treaty basis in Amsterdam, could also have contributed to the conclusion of such a far-reaching agreement as we have now done in the institutional field. I would like to have the Foreign Minister's assessment of exactly that. After all, he has followed these negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e300	The representative Hove said earlier in this debate that history writing is “exciting”, and that is what it is. But I'm not sure I'm going to start with it right now. And the kind of hypothetical questions that Frost Sterri came up with, it's hard to answer in general, at least very difficult in a short answer to a line. I am glad that the Government agrees that the agreement we have negotiated is better than the original one. There may be a lot of reasons for that, but I think one of the reasons is that the government got good help from the legal expert group that it set up. That group followed the negotiations all the way and made representations and comments to the Norwegian negotiating delegation. There is no doubt that the interaction between the negotiating delegation and the expert group led to both more offensive and thorough constitutional assessments throughout the course. This is how it has been shown that the government's decision to set up such a group was wise, even though initially it did not get so much hearing in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e307	It is almost that I think it is a bit sloppy to take a line and come after the Workers' Party and the Right, who have praised the Minister for Foreign Affairs then to those degrees up in the clouds in an EU case. It's almost a little kiss, clapping and hugging, and it's hard to be the one that's bad! I believe that there is a world between the reality of Mr Vollebæk's Minister of Foreign Affairs and the reality of the Central Party's parliamentary leader in this debate. These are the constitutional issues, the scope of the agreement, and whether there is a different and more extensive agreement than in the past. I am therefore tempted to ask Vollebæk to answer the following questions: Is it not the case that this is an agreement that the Government believes is good – which the entire Government believes is good – that also the current and former leader of the Center Party believes is a good and proper agreement to recommend the Stortingen to join? Then I have one more question: if you want to look a little ahead here, one of the constraints that comes in is Norway’s ability to influence a process before the EU countries have concluded between themselves. One of the major challenges in line with this agreement will be to ensure privacy, namely the way in which one can manage to build democratic institutions that can control the registers that are being built up, control the police's handling of them, etc. How has the Government planned to work in relation to the EU and Schengen countries, so that Norwegian views can come in at a time before the EU countries conclude between themselves, in a situation where we have the right to say what we mean, but where, of course, Norwegian influence is small? This is one of the big challenges! Has the government planned a scheme for this?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e316	If there is a ‘sleep’ in Stortinget, the representative of Halvorsen is now, it is very modest, so we should be able to live with it! If I get to start with the last part of her question, it also answers to the first part: Just that we got an agreement that then the entire government thinks is a better deal than the previous one, we did that by getting to this joint body, where we have full participation at all levels, from the expert level to the political level. And that possibility just means that we have influence here, we have opportunities to get in early – as we said, already at expert level – while at the same time we have the opportunity to address the necessary political constraints through political participation. But in addition to that, we will of course have to use our bilateral contacts. After all, we do not stop having direct links with the various capitals, even if we now have a Schengen agreement. Of course, we will make active use of these opportunities on all issues of relevance to Schengen, so that we can make an impact on our views even before they come to discussion in this joint body. It is true, as the representative Halvorsen says, that on the basis of this and given the situation we were in, given that there is a large majority who want a Schengen agreement, and that the Government was to negotiate an institutional adjustment, the entire Government is behind recommending what is now being dealt with in the Grand Duchy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e323	In my speech, I commended both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Justice for their very clear answers to the questions raised by the Foreign Affairs Committee. The Government Parties voted against the ratification of the Cooperation Agreement of December 1996. The reason for this was among other reasons. refugee and asylum policy, the need for border control and the possible integration of Schengen cooperation in the EU. The representative Steensnæs explained this earlier today and put great emphasis on this in his article. What I wonder, however, is whether the Christian People's Party and the Minister for Foreign Affairs still have the same basic counter-representations in these fields, based on the agreement the Government has negotiated. Not least in the light of the clear answers given by both Councils to the questions about these issues, I think this question is interesting. On the basis of the objections to the asylum and refugee policy raised by the opponents of the agreement here today, I would also like to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs whether the Government has been rocked in its view – as the Minister of Justice has replied: ‘The Norwegian Government is free to define Norwegian asylum and refugee policy’.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e330	Of course, the Minister of Foreign Affairs is on the basis of the Government, which is reflected in both the Declaration of Adults and in the Declaration of Government, which has a fundamental relationship with the Schengen Agreement. And the three parties have made it clear that they are basically negative to Schengen cooperation. At the same time, from the outset, the Government has said that it takes note that the Storting has already dealt with this matter, that there is still a majority in the Storing for a Schengen Agreement, and that what the Government has now done is to make an institutional adjustment without changing the material content of the Schengen Agreement. It should be pretty clear, and it also comes out of the proposition. As far as the question of refugee and asylum policy is concerned, it is equally clear that the Government is behind the Minister of Justice's response, in which he clearly states that Norway still has the right to have its own refugee and asylum policy, that it is not bound by the Schengen Agreement with regard to Norway's asylum and refugee policy, so that the information that has come here today, where it is said that we do not have the occasion, is not, in our view, correct.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e337	I think the debate on realities is more important than a debate on formalities. Nor can the Minister of Foreign Affairs get away from the fact that one of the objectives is to have an asylum policy that makes it easier to reject asylum seekers more than in one country and that the first country rule is fundamental. Anyone who has worked on this will say that it will lead to a tighter asylum policy. That is the reality. The formalities are that we have a formal access to conduct our own policies. I'll try to limit myself here. I understand that the Foreign Minister is only speaking positively – there was a complete hallelujah mood here. He indicates that we have more influence in the Joint Body. It was a central point for the previous government to be present where the decisions were actually made. Real decisions are taken when EU members reach agreement and that is before the meeting of the Joint Board. We've lost this. That was a central point for former Minister of Justice Faremo, that was a central point for former Minister of Foreign Affairs Godal. Hallvard Bakke said we should not accept a new agreement if we did not get it. The Joint Body now appears to be giving more influence. I see that you put a lid on the problems. When there was criticism from the coast that there were too few border crossing points, yes, more were established. But what remains is that the EU decides how much control to have. Then when it comes to it, it becomes an economic problem how many border crossing points you actually want to maintain. It's also said not to have 100 pst. personal checks. Today you have approx. 16 pst. control of third country vessels. It actually says the Government sea – I don't know if the EU countries will accept it, so there's a lot of cutting in the sea that's not taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e350	It is certainly not just the expression ‘sleep’ that I have problems with in parliamentary terms, but also the term ‘hallelujam’. My experience of 'hallelujah' is very different from what I experience in this debate here today. But we can get back to that. With regard to the refugee and asylum policy and the rights we have, since this Stephanie Mills case has been used so many times as an example, and where it has also been said that it was, it may not be a parliamentary expression, a kind of inquevetta response given by the Minister of Justice, I would like to refer to the entire Minister of Justice's reply as an annex to this position, where it is said very clearly: [[Foreign Minister Vollebæk]] ‘It follows from Article 5(2) that a Party to the Convention may derogate from the principle set out in paragraph 1’ — which is then subject to those restrictions — ‘for humanitarian or national reasons or because of international obligations. In that case, the authorisation of entry shall be limited to the territory of that one country.’;» But that just means that we still have the rights we have today. We can allow people to enter Norway, as we have done until today. It's of great importance and importance to us. When the representative of Holand rejects the importance of the Felleorgane – it is possible that I have completely misunderstood and that the Minister of Justice may be called, because I am not a lawyer – I would say that it is important that we have a joint body outside the EU in which Norway and Iceland participate. And we participate – as I have said – at all levels, from the level of experts to the political level. It has just been of importance to the Government, because it has a relationship with Schengen where it wants to be active, including in the exercise of Norwegian influence.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e368	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e372	After a long and in-depth debate on Norwegian membership of the EU, it was decided after a referendum that we should not join this Union through membership. It was a decision that I for my part worked for, and ended about. One of the reasons why I could take such an attitude was the certainty that we would be able to enter into current and necessary mutual agreements with this ever-increasing Union in the future. If that had not been the case, I would have had to adopt a different attitude to the membership issue. When I went towards membership for my part, it wasn't based on an idea of creating the greatest possible distance from the EU countries, but because I didn't believe in the organisational model, or the model of cooperation that was established in the Union – the closed spaces, the democratic deficit, etc. There were a lot of things that made me think for my part that it was not wise to go in as a member. But I pictured that in all the relevant areas, we had to seek closeness and contact with the EU, not least because the countries with which we have in every way the closest and best contact with and contact with it were part of this Union. It goes on to mention Sweden, Denmark and Finland. That is why it would be devastating today, and for the future, if our policy towards the European Union were to be to create the greatest possible distance. It is definitely the opposite that must affect our policy towards EU countries: an active and inclusive policy as far as possible without membership of the Union. This happens, among other things: by means of mutually binding agreements. Norway, as a very small country, has been driving too many intergovernmental agreements, knowing that such agreements are particularly important for small countries. The agreement Storting deals with today is such an intergovernmental agreement. It is neither a dictatorship nor a housekeeper's contract, but a result of negotiations between independent parties. Now, there are clearly both formulations and devices in the agreement that different environments in Norway could ideally expect to differ, just as some environments or countries within the EU could envisage some changes in the text of the agreement. But this is in the nature and form of the negotiations and agreements. However, the main objections appear to be rejected. At my best discretion, the benefits for us in the Schengen Agreement are of such a dimension that they are far outweighing any disadvantages. In this way, the governments that have worked on the matter on behalf of Norway must be given considerable consideration. It is still the case that there are forces in Norway that believe that membership of the EU will be the best – the best solution – and their ability to achieve this abandoned track will have the right to life only if we pursue a policy that systematically distances us from EU countries. If we had said no to the veterinary agreement, if we said no to the Schengen agreement and – as some here might wish – no to the EEA agreement and cancelled it, we might eventually be forced to say yes to EU membership if we were to have opportunities to function in relation to the neighbouring countries of Europe. Good, mutual agreements with these countries will remove the basis for a new, uplifting and completely unnecessary membership debate. This should be seen by both the membership supporters and the opponents. I now see that some people believe that the price of this increased transparency within Schengen becomes a reinforced external control, that is, that the external borders of Schengen will be more difficult to cross. As far as I can understand, this outer limit will not be more difficult to cross than it is to cross the borders of individual countries today, but it will be more difficult to cross these boundaries illegally. It will be more difficult to enter the Schengen area illegally, but, as far as I have understood, no one has taken up the issue of facilitating the possibility of illegal border crossing. This is a question that has been raised by many, and one does not want Norway's refugee and asylum policy to be tightened up so that we cannot fulfil our obligations in this area. The government has clarified this issue very well, most recently the Minister of Foreign Affairs here today. I also see that someone claims that this agreement will bring us closer to the EU system. I don't think so. But I think that will bring us closer to the EU countries, and we should be pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e404	This has been a really nice afternoon. I should perhaps not point out that it may be related to the fact that there are currently none of the representatives of the Central Party who have spoken, but the temptation was too great. I have taken note that the reference group has come to the conclusion that we can now deal with the matter under the second paragraph of Section 26 and I am pleased about that, and I can then ignore the fact that it was only the government parties who doubted that it was possible. Now, as far as I understand, that doubt is put aside from an overall government and a significant part of the relatively small parliamentary basis behind the same government. This can go really well gradually. The Minister of Foreign Affairs was so loving to suggest that he might not have understood everything in relation to the cooperation in the Joint Agency, but I don't think he'll ignore the fact that he's understood the most in that context, even though none of us are lawyers. But I will – when we are soon finished with this broad debate on institutional matters – talk a little about the treatment we are now going to have in the Justice Committee in relation to the rest of the agreement. We are very soon to be dealt with – before the summer holiday – the organisation of personal checks on third countries along the coast, the legal regulation of the SIS register and the economic consequences of the agreement. The detailed debate on how to adapt to Schengen cooperation will come about in dealing with that proposition. But it is already happy that the Government, which claims it is against the agreement, is nevertheless a follower of implementing it. It may be an expression that the joy of power surpasses most of this government, as someone will suspect it for, but it may also be – and I prefer to base it on – a recognition that this is an agreement that is good both for the country and for the Government, to the extent that there should be some difference between the two things. For the right, as in 1997, it is now important that, through Schengen cooperation, we have the opportunity to combat international crime. We know that borders can be a crime for business, for most people and – not least – for the police. But for criminals, however, border crossings represent an obstacle they can use strategically to avoid criminal prosecution. Close and committed European cooperation may be more important in this area than in any other area. It is a fact that crime trends over the past 25 years have shown an ever-negative trend. The extent has increased, and the criminal methods are more brutal. Crime is increasingly internationally organised. So to perhaps the most serious in those accusations that a small minority in the Storting are still targeting the agreement, the claim that this will weaken privacy. It's quite pointless, isn't it? On the right, we have been very concerned about strengthening privacy, not least in some areas of conflict of competence with the Government, in order to strengthen data protection, precisely in terms of privacy. I would like to stress once again that all countries which accede to the Schengen Agreement are bound by the Council of Europe's data protection convention. More clearly, it is not said that privacy has been taken care of and has a great deal of attention within this cooperation we are now entering into. Then, for the sake of order, I would just like to point out that as early as 1972 Norway entered into police cooperation with the Nordic countries, adopted by the police authorities of the countries, and we entered into cooperation in Interpol with 127 member countries. The cooperation there is informal and is not regulated by any convention. The organisation is not subject to political control and is in practice autonomous. The question of participation was never submitted to Stortinget. Schengen will become the best regulated police cooperation Norway has ever participated in. The parties opposed to Schengen cannot be in favour of cooperation which is the direct control of the exchange of information.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e421	The President now calls because she will propose that those who sign up on the list of speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e426	It is a serious matter the Stortinge treats today. The origin of the idea of a Norwegian link to the Schengen Agreement begins with the Norwegian accession notification of the Norwegian Labour Party Government from 1994 onwards. It took the agreement as a natural step to take for Norway after EU membership. Then the Norwegian people who knew nothing of an EU membership, but the Labour Party government, despite this, showed up with a sketch for Norwegian affiliation only three months later. Four years later, this is one important criticism of the agreement, in the range of many. The agreement not only links Norway to the EU in the field of justice and police to raise justified doubts about respect for the people’s vote in 1994, but it links Norway so closely to a foreign power that the boundaries of the Constitution are laid. Yes, until the majority of the EU in the European Union in the United Kingdom has gone through the Constitution in many EU cases in the 1990s. A lot of people ask if the Constitution is about to lose its function through their easy-to-use handling of our constitution. I would like to ask why we do not dare to make proposals for changes to the Constitution instead? The government, for its part, had only one way to avoid Norwegian Schengen association: by demonstrating absolute constitutional dispute. The Government has done an affordable job by setting up a reference group of skilled lawyers to review all aspects of the Schengen Agreement's relationship with the Constitution. The experts concluded that the agreement is within the Basic Law's limits when the operation is carried out in two stages. But at the same time it is said that the Storting should have used the third part procedure in Section 93. Furthermore, a majority concludes that § 93 must have been used if the 1997 agreement and the existing one had been submitted at the same time. In other words, it is written in black and white which procurator's bill was the basis for the striking urgency of the large majority in the spring of 1997 to get the agreement out of business only one week before its foundation fell through the Treaty of Amsterdam of the European Union. In any event, the Storting shall today focus on the markers set up by the reference group and set out in the proposition, in the future challenge of the Constitutional Limits. The proposition represents a major step forward towards a complete and informed constitutional discussion in relation to a specific matter involving a renunciation of sovereignty. Apart from the plurality of the majority's relationship with the Constitution, there are many unfortunate aspects of the Schengen Agreement in itself. Coastal conditions would have to be met with uncertainty about the regulatory framework when crossing the 4-mile limit. It is assured by the Ministry that today there will be no significant restrictions on current practices, but at the same time the right to a new regulatory design will be left to the EU and a decision-making model where Norway only has the opportunity to join – or terminate the entire agreement. The Schengen person monitoring system is a little reliable. Per. information can be obtained on a date of more than 30000 jobs in the Member States, there are vague limits on which information can be disseminated in the systems and as the Director of the Data Protection Agency, Apenes, says: ‘Central data protection rights are not adequately protected, such as the right to access and erasure of data.’; Schengen results in a mix of police forces' responsibilities by allowing foreign law enforcement in a number of cases. This weakens the responsibility of the police towards the population. Equally serious is the fact that the EU's own models of police cooperation operate in pure competition with established international cooperation. From Interpol, inter alia: represented by the Norwegian high-ranking official Iver Frigaard, ineffective infringement of their structures is reported in the EU’s eagerness to promote the agreement. Is Norway worth it? Very familiar have a lot of that crime, for example. on the drug side, which reaches Norway, its origin far outside the EU’s small part of the world. The government is governed in this matter by the Stortinget. Against its expressed will in the Adult Declaration, it is required to refer the matter to the Stortinget. It is the United Kingdom that now has its new chance in the Schengen area to choose to develop Nordic, European and global cooperation in the area of justice and police, instead of an EU coercion that may prove to be intrusive for most other than criminal gangs operating across the internal Schengen borders. The centre party will vote against the agreement today. We haven't changed our vision since 1997. It is important that the different views of the parties are brought to the attention of the voters in the debate in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e450	In this debate, we have basically talked about the agreement as we know it per. today – as it exists. What has been in the debate to a lesser extent is the development that lies in it as a dynamic agreement. And it's maybe a very important debate like the one we've had per. today. What characterises the government's presentation of the case is that it's very little critical, a skipper where the fence is the lowest – I think it's going again. It is pointed out that a legal group has been set up which has assessed the constitutional situation and whether this is an agreement which should be decided by a qualified majority or not. A majority of lawyers say it will strengthen the political and constitutional legitimacy of adopting the agreement under Section 93. The government decides not to do so. What that means is that the government is making an active choice by weakening constitutional protection. When, in cases of doubt, the question is whether there is a matter that can be decided by a simple or qualified majority, one chooses to decide it by a simple majority, it will influence the dynamic interpretation of the constitution and make the threshold even higher to use Section 93 the next time. When we now conclude this agreement with the EU instead of having the cooperation agreement, we move from what was clearly in the form of an intergovernmental agreement to what several of the constitutional lawyers call a treaty hybrid. I want to develop what Erik Boe writes in his very thorough investigation, namely that some of the most worrying is that we give sovereignty, that we commit ourselves to future decisions that are made by an organisation we are not a member of, and that we have a limited influence. I think I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that the Joint Committee is a meeting place. We're allowed to express our views, but we have to say that there's an opportunity to say what we want when the decision is actually made. So it's pretty limited. It's a lightweight treatment where a jumper jumps over the fence where it's the lowest. I don't stop wondering why you wouldn't have the changes to treatment first. The parties to the Government last said that it is normal practice of State law that, before the conclusion of the Treaty, necessary legislative changes should be dealt with. And here, one of them sent out a case at the hearing on 1 September last year. There is a very strong suspicion here that one did not want the Storting and the public to know in detail all the counter-representations that appeared in the hearing bodies. So to the agreement that exists in relation to the EU. It's also here that we don't know everything. One is invited to decide on a treaty that you do not know the full content of. The main message states that the Annexes, A and B, which define the scope of the agreement, will be clarified between the parties after the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam, and not earlier than after 1 May, after the decision of the Stortinget has been taken, as well as that the EU Council will take an internal decision in the context of the approval of the agreement which will indicate the areas where the EU considers Norway and Iceland to be involved in the further development of the legislation. They don't even need to know. It is said that new decisions have not been taken that are significant since 1997. I don't understand. It is a concrete matter I will then use as an example, and it is a manual, which was adopted after the decision of the Stortinget, on police cooperation to prevent threats to public order and security. It's a very sensitive area. There is now an indicative manual here. And formally, we don't want to be bound by it. What do we want to be real?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e467	There are several people here who have praised the agreement and said that it is a better agreement than the previous cooperation agreement was. Then I will quote one of those who the Government has sought advice from in the legal group: ‘The main impression is that the revised Schengen Agreement is somewhat worse for Norway than the Cooperation Agreement of 19.12.1996. In particular, I stress the loss of the right to participate... in the decision-making body, the loss of the right to make proposals, the pressure on the Norwegian Court of Justice due to cessation threats in the event of non-compliance with practices and the requirement for provisional application... of new Schengen rules before the adoption by the Stortinget of them.» That should be quite clear speech. We have the right to be shot at the government party earlier not to have done their job. And I understand that we've been trotting on some sore toes, and it should have the government party, but the tiniest toes should have the Christian People's Party and the Left. But that doesn't mean we let the yes-parties go free. It was the Workers' Party that, in our opinion, did not take good enough account of the populace by secretly initiating the process. The party then has a great responsibility to keep up with evolution. That is why I think it is a little reassuring what case rapporteur Marit Nybakk said earlier in the debate, that only secure information – if I remember correctly – is kept in the SIS register. The activity report of the Schengen Cooperation Supervisory Body is troubling in its criticism of the protection of privacy and legal certainty in both SIS and SIRENE. Both contain sensitive information available to a number of instances. The security is so poor that the Danish Minister of Justice admits that people with criminal purposes can go in and get information. We therefore expect in SV that the responsible party will follow the development and take the consequences. The Schengen Agreement is, as a system, logical in the construction of the Union. It shall ensure the free movement of people within the walls and ensure that undesirable persons do not enter. The freedom to cross the boundaries is compensated by within-limits control; no one can come from. That's why it's not scare propaganda when we warn against the Big Brother seeing you society. The case of Stephanie Mills is not a failure, but a consequence of the system and the thinking, as Kristin Halvorsen had in the past. Schengen is characterised by many as the Europol laboratory and the development of EU judicial and police cooperation, in other words, a cornerstone of the EU Justice Palace. This is why it is important to see the Government's strategy for keeping us out of Europol, Eurodac and the latest Enfopol, namely the system for intercepting new telecommunications such as e-mails, mobile phones, etc. if this is contrary to the will of government parties. These are systems that are melting with the Schengen systems. At least it's a challenge for the government to raise the debate, so we don't step in without people knowing what it's all about. Schengen – or what it will now be called when it becomes part of the EU system – is a dynamic system under development. Lisbeth Holand referred to the police manual drawn up as part of a monitoring cooperation for the control of demonstrators and activists. It is indicative, but it is said to be used in participating countries by being communicated to the police in each country. At least it's coming out of the groceries. So what's the content? Yes, all groups, large and small, participating in demonstrations can be monitored and registered in the SIS. At least it confirms the Minister of Justice in his reply to the Committee. So – nature conservationists who demonstrate can be followed. The manual provides information on the routes or routes groups run, the meeting places they have, the locations or any breaks in the course of their journey. This isn't scare propaganda, it's real plans. And that is monitoring beyond any democratic control. In fact, the Minister of Justice says that this type of monitoring can be controlled by the EOS Committee if the police surveillance service is included in the surveillance. I want to challenge the government to predict how this can be done.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e487	It is a major and serious issue The Stortinget is dealing with today – a case that could have such consequences that it may be necessary to go back to what is now said, in order to look at what premises The Stortinget adopts Norway's connection to the new Schengen Agreement, thereby making a waiver of sovereignty like this. Despite the people's no to EU membership both in 1972 and 1994, the majority of the people here on the Stortinget, often referred to by the former Labour Party Governments, have brought forward issues that are ever closer to the EU system, and also in a way that weakens our constitution and its sovereignty in central and fundamental areas. The majority have set out clear guidelines for today's Schengen procedure, including: with the treatment that took place here in the United Kingdom in the spring of 1997. In total, this has given the Government a binding mandate, which they have sought to resolve through the proposals under consideration today. In my view, the overall Schengen issue, with what we have dealt with in the past, what we are dealing with today, and what we are going to deal with later in ours, is so important and important that it should now have been viewed in context and dealt with subsequently. The Schengen issue is not just a more technical and legal issue in terms of police, justice and border control. It is a question of whether we should be able to manage and manage in the long term under our own legislation and constitution. It is a question of whether we should be able to maintain the interests and integrity of Norwegian citizens on the basis of the democratic and human rights principles and traditions we have built on to date. Furthermore, it is also a question of coordinating and interacting with international justice, police and refugee issues, with the entire international community, or mainly with and within the EU area. In sum, this means that the Schengen case is of such a large and fundamental nature that it should be subject to a much more thorough treatment procedure than it is now. In my view, such a process should have been linked to a larger and more popular debate and treatment process. The Schengen case has been largely presented as being made up of technical and complex legal issues. I believe that both the fundamental and practical issues could have been more presented for a popular treatment, and that we had thus had a stronger democratization in the treatment. This would have led to a better understanding of what the Schengen issue is for the most part, and would also have given us elected representatives a better basis for concluding. Unfortunately, the popular commitment has not been particularly high on either the yes-page or the no-page in this context. A question of presenting the case to an advisory referendum was intended to increase the understanding and debate on the Schengen Agreement, but the reactions to this have not come from either now or previously any of the sides of the EU issue. This has to be recorded now, but for us who are to be responsible for the decisions that are being taken today, it is of great importance that we stick to the principle and of course what this will lead to in practice. That is why the Central Party today will vote against the Schengen Agreement from an overall point of view, and we also believe that such an important area should have been dealt with under the Constitution § 93.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e508	President! Could I first ask how many minutes I have?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e513	Five minutes!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e516	All right! Let me then start where the previous speaker ended – with the Constitution § 93 versus the Constitution § 26, second paragraph. It is true that the legal assessment that the Government has been investigated concludes that Section 93 is not necessary and that it is not applicable because we are not a member of the EU and have not intended to be so under this agreement. Then it is clear that there will be political assessments that give shades to such a legal view. It is also in this reference group. The Government has then taken a political stance on this in the light of the legal and political assessment, and the Government recommends that we deal with the Schengen Agreement on the basis of the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Constitution. It is a political assessment by the Bondevik government to which the majority of the Storting – all except the Centre Party and the SV – have joined. In this Government, with government councils and State Secretaries respectively, sits among others. The current head of the Central Party, the former head of the Central Party, the Vice-Chairman of the Central Party, who is Secretary of State at the Prime Minister's office and who was former Secretary of State at the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and No to the former Vice-Chairman of the EU, who is perhaps Secretary of State at the Kleppa Council of State. And that is reason to ask questions about the representatives of Jakobsen and Nymo, among others. believes that the Government and its parties in the Government are acting unlawfully in this matter? So there hasn't been any of this in the government. However, the centre party in this hall has a different opinion, which may suggest that they believe that their party traps actually act unconstitutional and possibly undermine the Constitution and Constitutional. I would also just like to add in relation to what Jacobsen said earlier, that the government's assessments and conclusions have not been dictated by the Storting, but that this has been done on its own basis, while we have joined it. So some comments to the representative Lisbeth Holand, and it's about the dynamic agreement. As we have read the Government documents, recommendations and letters of reply, this means that our participation in Schengen after integration into the EU will take place in this Joint Body, previously described by several representatives and by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The Joint Body shall discuss any matter and legislation to be addressed and shall be discussed at ministerial, expert and official level as early as possible. Norway shall decide on its own initiative on the changes to the rules, according to the Government. If we say no, we have 90 days to possibly find a compromise to see if there is a basis for continuing the agreement – if not, the agreement will end. Lisbeth Holand's visions of the future that we're going to get all over our heads, so it doesn't match what the government says in its documents. Representatives from SV have also, to a particular extent, run the question of refugees and asylum seekers. I now find reason to refer again to the Government, both to what the Minister of Foreign Affairs said, and not least to the letter sent by the Minister of Justice to the Foreign Affairs Committee of the United Kingdom, where, among others, the Minister of Justice. says: ‘The extensive cooperation of the EU countries on other refugee and asylum issues is outside the framework of the Schengen work to which Norway and Iceland are in the process of being associated. The Norwegian Government is free to define Norwegian asylum and refugee policy.’ Finally, on this manual. There is also a letter from the Minister of Justice to the Foreign Affairs Committee, which includes: states that this is a revision of the 1997 Manual, and: ‘The aim is to assist each other in the exchange of relevant information on groups of persons who may pose a threat to public order and safety.’ And I can imagine a lot of groups, both neo-Nazis and organized criminals, that it might be a good idea to have such a registration across the borders of Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e550	Kristin Halvorsen meant to have had a hallelujah experience during the Foreign Minister's speeches, without it being mutual, as far as I understood the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Now I believe, on the other hand, that no particular hallelujah experience was expected when you heard Lisbeth Holand describe Schengen. In essence, according to Lisbeth Holand, what Schengen is like is rather sad and sad. I remember when the case was dealt with the previous time, in 1997. Then there was a rush — not out of optimism, but a rush of something that could be positive — that, after all, we should work together across borders to prevent crime. But you should of course make it much more effective in Interpol and anywhere else, so really this was a very small and immaterial argument. Today it's basically just sad and search. Even the little positive argument I haven't heard – and I've been sitting nice and listening as far as I can. But one thing that was interesting was that Lisbeth Holand put so much emphasis on the dynamic development. Then it ran me in the memory of the representative of Holand's prophetic ability from the last time. Then there was one thing in particular that was so central. In fact, the agreement we discussed in 1997 was also sad and bad, but just wait how bad it will be next time, if Schengen is integrated into the EU! So we have a little bit of empathy about the representative of Holand's ability to look into the future. Because what can certainly be discussed is whether the current agreement is much better or, if so, about as good as the previous one. But no one has dared to claim that the current agreement is so much worse than the previous one. And that was actually what Lisbeth Holand put up to in her time when she talked about how bad it would be with a Schengen integrated into the European Union. Then it's a completely different thing, and that's this hiking story about Stephanie Mills. After listening to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I feel fairly convinced that the only country that is somehow bound by itself not to take her in is France, while all the other countries are basically on a relatively free basis – unless she has done something that we all distance from – can let her in. So you can imagine the problem: would we like it if the Schengen agreement were designed so that Norway could not put anyone on the blacklist? I can imagine a number of situations where we would like to put someone on the blacklist. If we did that and other Schengen countries did not think this was right, then they would also be able to choose on a free basis whether they would let him in, unless he had done something so serious that it is perfectly obvious that he was disqualified. So I think this Stephanie Mills example actually says something about the independence that you have to follow your own laws. In the end, I think Johan J. Jakobsen and the Center Party should be a little more honest. They said, "We didn't get to the government, we tried, but we lost." We didn't even get to take this one. We're sorry, but that's the way the world is. So instead, you've tried to pretend that those from the Central Party who dealt with the matter in the Government, and these in the Chamber, who think the whole opposite, are really as good. Because, as Kristin Halvorsen was about, it's just in a busy game that you can play on a number of horses at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e563	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e566	First, I have to be allowed to clarify a manifest misunderstanding that the representative of Shaastad has been guilty of: it was the representative of Lisbeth Holand who came in a hallelujah mood, while the representative of Kristin Halvorsen felt bad. I actually asked for the word to say that I am a little surprised at what I experience today as a rough road from the Socialist Left Party on this matter. I cannot help but understand that the Socialist Left should also be satisfied that this government, which has a clear no-position to the Schengen Agreement, has done such a thorough job in looking at the constitutional issues, and in taking into account the serious issues that have been raised by several speakers, which are covered by the Schengen Agreement. Here I think it is important that we remember that the government has not negotiated the material content. The government has dealt with this, and it is regrettable, if necessary, that it is a majority in the Grand Duchy of Schengen Agreement. There is already a decision in the Stortinget. This agreement needs to be adapted to the new situation in the EU, and the Government has found that it had to deal with it. A number of questions have arisen in connection with this treatment. On 19 April this year, we received 14 questions from SV in the Government – to the Minister of Justice and myself. They we answered in the course of a day and a half. I don't think it's so bad what it says there, but it seems, with all due respect, that SV's representatives haven't read what it says at all, because they come up with exactly the same questions, exactly the same claims that the Minister of Justice and I have answered. And I must be allowed to complain when I think about all the work that we and the agency in our two departments have done to answer the so far important questions that SV has raised. Let me just repeat a part of one answer, which is quite serious, because the representative Holand again asks how it is possible to invite the Stortinget to approve an agreement with unexplained scope. Then it is clearly stated in our answer: ‘The scope of the contract is... not unclear. The only thing left is to draw up the exact list of contents of Annex A. This shall be done after Schengen has completed a review of its legislation.... The review currently in progress in Schengen is of a technical nature and no changes are made to the substantive content of the Schengen acquis.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e580	In his final statement, the rapporteur tried to create the impression that there was a gap between the Central Party in the Stortinget and the People of the Center Party in the Government when it came to the assessment of the Basic Law § 93 versus the second paragraph of § 26. I believe that I have actually given a clear indication of the context here earlier today. The national meeting of the central parties was clearly in the direction that the Government should assess the use of the Basic Law § 93 in the treatment of the Schengen Agreement. And as I said in a previous post today, the people of the Central Party in the Government have followed up this. This question has been raised. It has been seriously discussed in the Government, but the Government has concluded that, following an overall assessment, this case, the Schengen case, will be dealt with under the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Constitution. To Shaastad, who was concerned about this with hers, I would say that it has long been clear that the central party in the government did not intend to intervene in this matter. With regard to the mission I mentioned in my first post, I would also like to state that if you look at the 1997 deadline, it is, in my opinion, a clear mission to the government that is always in place to enter into negotiations with the EU. It's enough to read in the settings. Nor can I share the description of the different reality that some people have expressed. On the contrary, if we look at the proposition, it is actually there in plain text as the Government's view that the views of the government parties are closer to the innermost. S. No 229 for 1996-97, i.e. the setting underpinning the previous treatment of the Stortinge. It is not stated that the views of the government parties were more detailed. This is the actual situation today. And as Minister of Foreign Affairs Vollebæk made clear in his statement to the Stortinget on 18 December last year, the views of the central parties on the Schengen Agreement are firm. Of course, this can be assessed in different ways – either by not having a fight over material content, or by seeing this issue as a matter of fact so that the Stortinge will then transform the existing material part of the Schengen Agreement into a new regime with the EU as a contracting party. This can be seen as a whole, and then it is possible to reach the conclusion that the Centre Party has reached in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e594	Next explanation: As for the hallelujah mood, I was not in the hallelujah mood, but I realized that much of the assembly was there. I stood outside. Marit Nybakk had some questions for me – first if not the joint body is important. The point is that at all levels, then, the EU countries need to get together first, and then we need to see what they want. So there's influence after the decisions are made. That's how we're getting our decisions pushed down our heads. The only positive thing in this context – I sometimes see the point of light, I also – is that they have actually managed to negotiate an opportunity that makes it easier to go out. They must have all the credit for that. Then it was refugee and asylum policy. I've commented so many times that I won't do it again. The manual on cooperation, on threats to public order and security, dismisses Marit Nybakk in a frightening way. It concerns nynazists and those we want to protect ourselves from! We have experience that the surveillance police register far more. It is such a sensitive area that I think it is extremely worrying that there is no problem with a mere register and that there is such cooperation. Anders Shaastad pointed out that I think it is so sad and looking with Schengen. Yes, I think so – not only sad and sad, but I think it's serious. Sheastad indicated that I had actually shown good fortune - tellers in 1997, because I had said something about even worse if the agreement was integrated into the EU. It is actually the case that also several of the lawyers who conducted the negotiations, who evaluated it, say that in sum we have had a lower influence. In addition, the previous government stressed that there was an agreement in which our neighbouring countries actually had veto rights, since unanimity was required in that agreement, and that they would never go against things that were in Norway's interest. We've lost that too. So in several ways it's clearly getting worse. And the dynamic part clearly makes it worse. Then it was the "wander story". I think that's an incredible name. A history of hiking – then you have made a story that is not true. Is there no one who dares enter it? The Minister of Foreign Affairs said that SV has not read the answers. Well, we've read the answers well and thoroughly, and we're not satisfied with all of the answers. We think it is rather worrying that the Ministry of Justice has not come to an agreement on the matter of Stephanie Mills, because it is a very important matter in principle. They say they cannot decide. In fact, in such a case, Norway could under the rules allow her to come in here if she had applied in advance. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e612	The Government of Bondevik negotiated an agreement on the basis of the wishes of the majority of the population, and the Government has followed the mission of the majority of the population. For my part, I would like to say that it is easy to find critical comments on the Schengen Agreement, and not least we find these critical comments within the EU. But you can be a little surprised by the lack of system criticism in Norway. In my view, we have paid a high price for the freedom of passports. We are looking at the outlines of ‘Fortress Europe’ and an obligation to legitimise that we see can develop in a frightening direction. I think it is time to ask the 1997 bulk of the population: Is passport freedom worth the price? I think there is a disproportionate relationship between duty, costs and influence. Many of the EU's members highlight these points as important criticisms of the Schengen Agreement. Firstly, when the border control falls off, the pressure will increase for systematic control elsewhere. This can develop into a system of apartheid that we don't like. Secondly, there is also reason to ask whether there is a mix of unwanted aliens who are registered and the fight against crime, a mixture that is not fortunate in our view. Thirdly, it is also important to look at transparency and legal protection. I have to say that I am amazed at the large number of people from 1997, at their lack of criticism of the system, and at the hallelujah moods that you get from the illusion that you can have a free market that is free of crime. I refer to the view of the Christian People's Party in 1997, and that is my view and that of the party in principle today. We are still against the material content of the Schengen Agreement. I cannot see, for my part, that today we are dealing with only one institutional solution, and I must therefore vote against the proposal of the Government. I also support the proposal that Section 93 should be applied in this case, and refer to the argument submitted by the proposer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e631	Just a few brief remarks to the representative Holand, and I will once again respond to the reply of the Minister of Justice to the Foreign Affairs Committee of the United Kingdom, in fact to a question from SV, which Lisbeth Holand represents in this context. It says, among other things.\t\t You can change the ‘The Manual is a follow-up to the rules on police cooperation resulting from Chapter III of Part III of the Convention. 1st@item: inlistbox This police cooperation is intergovernmental, i.e. agreement on all decisions is required, and it is done in full within the framework of Norwegian legislation. We cannot therefore assume obligations that fall outside the Norwegian law. On this basis, we participate in the cooperation and accept as guidance the guidelines provided in the manual. As far as it conforms to law and established practice for the exercise of good police service in our country, we will follow the instructions of the manual.’ I would also like to point out that the Minister of Justice emphasises that the Supervisory Committee, that is, the Supervisory Committee of the EEAS, can'verify the possible cooperation that the Police Monitoring Service had to have in this context'. It is also the case that no rules have been laid down for the registration of any personal data in this context but that the registration in SIS takes place only on the basis of the articles of the Convention. And just to repeat it once again: like all other police cooperation in the context of the Schengen Agreement, this cooperation will take place within the framework of national law. This is the answer the Minister of Justice has given to the EEAS Committee on the Manual, which is a revision of the 1997 Handbook. To the representative Johan J. Jakobsen, I would just like to say that the contribution he made here a few minutes ago, in essence just underlined that the Central Party of the Government and the Central Party of the Stortinget have drawn two quite different conclusions on the basis of what that reference group has said that has assessed the paragraph of the Constitution according to which this institutional agreement on our participation in Schengen is to be treated.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e645	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 3 and 4. [[Fotation, see page 2864]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e659	: The Storting is invited today to give its consent to the ratification of the Treaty on the Total Prohibition of Nuclear Test Burdens. In the original language, the Treaty is called Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty and is thus given the explanatory abbreviation CTBT. This is an abbreviation that will obviously go into the amount of easily understandable abbreviations we have in the international political environment. Norway has been in the first place in order to arrive at such a treaty that it intends to stop all forms of nuclear explosion. It's from previously established similar agreements, but these are limited in their beings, or in their form. We have e.g. agreement on nuclear test explosions under water, agreement on nuclear test explosions in the atmosphere, etc. This is an agreement that places a total ban on such activity at all. The verification requirements of such an agreement are comprehensive and require a significant apparatus to be properly enforced. A separate organisation is established with the membership conference between the parties as the highest body and shall have its headquarters in Vienna. Technically, the monitoring will take place through a network of 321 control stations around the world, of which, as far as I understand it, 6 in Norway. With the technological knowledge currently available, it will not be possible to carry out such a test site without being captured and recorded at one or more of these stations. The registrations made will be transferred to the International Data Centre in Vienna. From there it will be made known to all Member States. If one or more Member States consider that there has been a breach of the agreement, a procedure shall be initiated which may ultimately lead to international control in the country in which the suspicion is addressed, if no clarification has been provided. To date, 152 countries have signed the Treaty, which was published on 24 September 1996, and a total of 28 countries have already ratified it. Among these are the United Kingdom and France, while other major nuclear powers such as China, Russia and the United States are among those that have signed but have not yet ratified the Treaty. The nuclear powers India and Pakistan have not yet signed, but may do so if certain conditions fall into place. It is also true that the 44 countries on the list of the International Atomic Energy Agency, known as the IAEA, must sign the Treaty before it can enter into force. Norway is included in this list. It goes without saying that it is not certain when the Treaty can formally enter into force, but the Committee has concluded that for political reasons it would be useful to deal with the Treaty as if it had entered into force – among other things. in order to contribute to the fastest possible progress in those countries that may take a little more time than appears necessary. The text of the Treaty states that if it has not entered into force three years after the one-year date of the Treaty's opening of signature – I understand that it will then be four years in total – the Conference of the Parties will be convened. As far as I understand more, this will happen no later than September 24th next year. It is a unanimous committee which recommends, in its attitude to the Stortinget, that it endorses the ratification of the Treaty.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e676	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2865]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e690	I note that there is a consensus in the Storting to grant money to remedy the refugee problem in Kosovo as a result of ethnic cleansing. However, the Progress Party has a different proposal from the majority on two points. Firstly, we propose that 495 million be allocated. kr, while the majority only proposes 195 million. kr. Secondly, the Progress Party will use all the money to help the refugees in their neighbourhoods. However, the majority are in favour of receiving 6,000 Kosovar Albanians in Norway, as according to St. pp. No 59 will cost approx. DKr 1.2 billion. The Progress Party will use such amounts to assist its neighbourhoods. First, the justification is that at least ten times as many Kosovar Albanians can be helped in the neighbourhoods as in Norway for the same amount. Secondly, it is desirable that as many Kosovar Albanians as possible return to Kosovo after the Serbs have been driven back. If the Kosovar Albanians spread around the world, they are unlikely to return. Experience with others who have been given a collective residence in Norway shows that they are staying in Norway even if the war is over. Experience shows that an asylum seeker has first received a residence permit in Norway, so it is impossible to send him out again. We therefore have to assume that the vast majority of the 6,000 will permanently settle in Norway. In this way, Norway will contribute to the ethnic cleansing of Kosovo initiated by Milosevic. It is claimed that there is no capacity to receive all refugees in the neighbourhood and that some of them must therefore be sent to other countries, including Norway. There is a particular reference to the ethnic imbalance that is about to occur when so many Albanians flow into Macedonia. To this is first of all to say that Albania can receive far more Kosovar Albanians if they just get more help from the outside, among other things. money and material from Norway. Albania has repeatedly asked for more financial help. Secondly, it is not right that the situation of the refugees in the neighbourhoods is critical. As international aid is better organised, the situation of many refugees has improved. The Norwegian authorities have received offers from Norwegian suppliers for excellent and easily transportable housing units for approx. NOK 10 000 per year. bed area. If the Norwegian authorities had taken the same initiative in finding sites in the neighbourhoods as within Norway’s borders, the capacity there would certainly have increased considerably. For example, Italy has established eight refugee camps in Albania with a total of 16,600 refugees. Italy is now organising camps for a further 25 000 – 30000 refugees in Albania and has sent 1 400 civilian auxiliary workers, 38 000 sleeping bags and 4,800 tents. In addition, in relation to Norway, Italy must be regarded as a neighbourhood, so that Norway should offer to finance camps in Italy rather than take refugees here to Norway. Another thing is that now it's going towards summer, so provisional clay stays are easier to deal with. There are many advantages to the care of refugees in nearby areas. First, they will be able to understand more in their own language. Secondly, they will have far more opportunity to reunite their families and make contact with former neighbours and communities. If the Kosovar Albanians come to Norway, family reunification will happen here in the country, after the war is over. Thirdly, both climate and culture differences will make life easier in neighbourhoods than in Norway. Fourth, local unemployment is high, while labour market pressure in Norway is high, not least in the health sector. Therefore, it is unreasonable to bring children, old and sick to Norway. In the vicinity, many unemployed people can take care of and care for them. I take reservations regarding patients who need medical tipping skills. In the case of the Kosovar Albanians at their best age, they should be ready for efforts to rebuild Kosovo. They'll hardly do that if they come to Norway. Because of the points I have highlighted here, the Progress Party believes that we should help many in the neighbourhoods instead of few in Norway. I would remind you that French Social-Democratic Prime Minister Jospin has strongly stressed that the spread of refugees will be a contribution to ethnic cleansing. However, France has agreed to accept 5 000 – 10 000 refugees, which would be equivalent to Norway’s receiving 400 – 800 refugees in relation to the population in France and Norway. The EU Commissioner for Human Rights and the UN High Commissioner, like the Minister of State for Foreign Affairs of Albania, have also raised the same concerns about spreading refugees. As you will understand, there are also various international balances between, on the one hand, receiving refugees and helping them in the neighbourhoods. The Progress Party maintains that it is best to help them in the neighbourhoods. I take up the proposals of the Advance Party on page 2 of the vote and ask for separate voting on the Roman numerals I and II.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e711	Fridtjof Frank Gundersen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e714	President Milosevic's ethnic cleansing of Albanians from Kosovo has lasted a long time, including in particular: the Foreign Affairs Committee was made directly acquainted with the massacre in Racak that occurred while we were in Pristina in January earlier this year. Later, the flow of refugees has had dramatic developments in Kosovo. Through the refugees' own reports, we hear about the most grotesque conditions. Money for humanitarian aid will be able to relieve some of the distress they are now experiencing, and most people want to be helped as close as possible to their own country. This is not only the cheapest way to do it, but also the best solution for the refugees themselves, in order to return to Kosovo, which they would prefer. When the Progress Party has a proposal that assistance should be based on actions in Kosovo and the neighbourhoods, I would like to stress that it was necessary to make commitments to receive refugees to Norway as Macedonia would not open its borders to more refugees until other countries agreed to accept some of them. That Norway responded so quickly to this enquiry, made Macedonia open again to Kosovar Albanians in flight from destroyed homes and harassment from Serbian soldiers. We can only imagine the consequences if this had not happened and the refugees had continued to accumulate at the border. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees also encourages countries to accept these refugees. This is not something either – or. Most will be helped in their neighbourhoods pending the return of a peace settlement to Kosovo. So to the Right's comment on containment, which they want to take from the United Nations organizations. I would then like to stress that when we are going to help and support the refugees from Kosovo, we must understand that this necessarily costs extra money. Today, the debate concerns the allocation of 225 million. humanitarian aid. The war in Kosovo must be described as exceptional and consequently outside the budget negotiated in the autumn. It can't be right that this should affect other people who are in need of help in the world. There are actually people who have it even worse than many of the refugees from Kosovo. The issue today is war and European policy. Something else is our responsibility for the poor part of the world, in Africa and Asia. It's possible to have two thoughts in your head at the same time, and for the Christian People's Party, it's important that these two sides are not set up against each other, because here we're talking about the poorest of the poor. I therefore agree that the money will be given as a supplement under the hood. Item 192, item 71 of the 1999 State Budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e725	Let me first thank you for the broad support given by the Storting to the Government's efforts for the refugees from Kosovo. It's important to get a signal as clear as what we get here. This also applies to the Progress Party, which in addition actually wants to increase the allocation proposed by the Government to the Stortinget. The preliminary framework we're talking about here is 225 million. kr, which is referred to in the proposal, was based on immediate action based on assessments of the magnitude of the disaster made immediately after Easter. But with the evolution that we have now seen, I will in no way exclude that the Government must come back to the Storting and ask for more money. But I think we're going to do a review of the situation before we do. We will also look at how we can use the means we are now being put at our disposal, and also have close contact with the international organisations – especially as the UNHCR, which is responsible for the refugees – to clarify the needs. It's a little strange that the Progress Party is proposing 50 million. kr to strengthen Albania's economy, e.g. And a lot of money, without this looking like you're really busy controlling these funds. I remember from other debates in this room that the Progress Party has been among the most active in asking how and where the money is spent, and that we are sure that these do not go into the pockets of anyone who should not have them. That's the government very busy. That is why we are also concerned with a responsible use and a responsible allocation procedure, a responsible channelling of this money. We want to do that in close contact with not least international organisations such as UNHCR. But it is also important, as the representative Scarbøvik pointed out, that, in addition to helping in the neighbourhoods, as we are doing today to a large extent, we have also been willing to take refugees to Norway. This is partly based on an understanding with the authorities in Macedonia, but also in agreement with the UNHCR, who have now made a clear request that countries in Europe should accept refugees because of the difficult situation in neighbouring countries. But we have also said from the Norwegian side that we will support countries in the neighbourhoods that want to accept refugees. This applies, inter alia, to: Romania, and we have suggested to Romania that we could cover up to 5,000 refugees, which Romania still had the capacity to accept. It's about 15 million. kr as we have said that we are willing to use in that context. If I'm only allowed to make one response to the factual content of Gundersen's posts, the situation of the refugees is the same. The representative of Gundersen believes that Albania can accept far more refugees than they have made today, and he believes that he knows that the situation of the refugees is not critical. That's interesting. I wish both parts were right. My information is quite different. It's true that Albanians have shown a great openness and an impressive attitude to accept the refugees. At the same time, however, we must remember that when the country now has 350,000 – 400,000 refugees, it represents a very, very large proportion of its population, which I believe is about. Two million. We should also bear in mind that Albania has already had major political and social problems, as well as that it is a country that is very low in economic terms. There is no doubt that even though the heart space in Albania is large, there will be a need for extensive assistance there, and one must also look at how to relieve the pressure there. The situation of the refugees in the camps is as far as I understand, even though we have made a great effort there, in fact very critical. Even though it's summer and the temperature is so much better, for the first time it's rain, it's mud and dirt, and with summer and higher temperatures the danger of epidemics and diseases also comes. There is something, among other things: The World Health Organisation and UNICEF have warned against this. There will therefore still be a need to accept refugees also in Norway, although the main work will have to be done in the neighbourhoods.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e740	I am sorry to have to use quite strong words in a serious situation. But one of the major problems facing the world is that international crises are being woven into a domestic political game in many countries. In many countries, politicians are more concerned about how to use international crises for short-term voting gains or to maintain their own position in their country or become presidents or elected to the national assembly or whatever it may be, than actually going in and trying to solve these crises. In Norway, we have one blatant example of this in the current Kosovo crisis, and that is the Progress Party. In the ten years of the Kosovo crisis, the interest of the Progress Party in the Grand Duchy was just one: to devalue all the abuses made by Milosevic in Kosovo, to justify that it was safe to send refugees back to Kosovo. There were numerous debates on this, and every time we heard that the situation in Kosovo was far from as bad as SV's representatives or others said it was. We were told that it was entirely safe to send people back, that they should go down and build their country as soon as possible, and the vice-president of the Progress Party even managed to say on television that they should learn Serbian, because that is their own language. The interests of the Progress Party at the time, as it is now, were not Kosovo, but the municipal election campaign, not the Balkans, but the gallup. This does not impose any respect on the world – neither what they did at the time nor what they do now. I felt the need to say this, and then finally to say that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is saying about the question of assistance in the neighbourhood, of course, is absolutely right. The prerequisite for helping people in the neighbourhood was, of course, that countries in Europe were willing to take part of the burden they too. We could simply be allowed to help people in Macedonia if we were also prepared to help someone here, because of the obvious interest of the Macedonian authorities in the ethnic balance of their homeland. So even at this point, what the Progress Party says is wrong. It wasn't that you could choose between helping out in the vicinity or helping out here. If you wanted to help in the neighborhood, you had to help here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e751	As far as I understand Erik Solheim, the entire Kosovar Albanian population in Kosovo was to be qualified as refugees to Norway during these ten years. I almost have to interpret him there. But in my understanding, the state was completely different before the actual ethnic cleansing started, and has created the conditions that exist today. So if, in a case like Kosovo's, because there is an oppressed Albanian population, you were to say that anyone who comes to Norway from Kosovo would be granted a humanitarian or refugee residence permit, it would be very difficult to implement. I actually don't think many would be willing to draw such conclusions as I think logically have to be drawn from Erik Solheim's statements in this regard. With regard to the 5,000 refugees in Romania, I'm a little interested in what the Foreign Minister here said, that's what Romania thought they had the capacity to do. Was it conditional on Norway covering all the costs associated with these 5000, or would Norway cover only the travel expenses, or was it perhaps a small hand bill in connection with the operation — or what was it really like? In other words, this capacity was based on Norway paying only 15 million for 6,000 refugees for one year, or Norway has in some way tried to increase its capacity to receive, for example: Romania by providing more comprehensive assistance?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e758	I don't know if I fully understand Gundersen's question, but the situation is that we want to have close cooperation with the UN High Commissioner for Refugees in terms of refugee reception both in Norway and in the neighbourhoods, and in terms of the treatment of refugees. It has been our policy long before the Kosovo crisis began, but it has also been our position throughout the Kosovo crisis, and we have therefore maintained close contact with the High Commissioner for Refugees in this matter. The High Commissioner for Refugees has also identified, according to the information I have received from Minister for Foreign Affairs Plesu in Romania, places that can accommodate 5,000 refugees. How these places are further identified, and how the relationship is between the Romanian authorities and the High Commissioner for Refugees, I must honestly say I don't know, but in a conversation I had with the Romanian Minister for Foreign Affairs, this proposal came up – there was a dialogue between Romania and the High Commissioner. But Romania made it clear that they did not have financial resources in their difficult economic situation, which, of course, has become even more difficult now because of the situation we have in Yugoslavia with war, which is an economic problem for neighbouring countries. On this basis, we received a request to assist Romania in receiving 5,000 refugees. We have assessed this and said that if this agreement between the UNHCR and Romania takes place – if Romania, on request and in cooperation with the UNHCR, receives 5,000 refugees – Norway will be willing to pay for transport, which I understand under international rules will amount to 10 million. kr, and a provisional amount for the maintenance of these 5 million refugees. kr, so that it is possible to refurbish premises in which these refugees may reside. It is the framework and content of this proposal, which is currently nothing but a proposal, because it has not yet been clarified between Romania and the UNHCR. But that's the basis for what I said.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e765	What made me speak in this debate was the claim of the representative Solheim when he said that the Progress Party ‘once, as it is now’, primarily makes foreign policy assessments for the sake of local elections, etc. I would like to have asked myself such a presentation of my motives to participate in a foreign policy debate, or to have a foreign policy position or commitment. Of course, no Norwegian politician is completely excluded from the debate on domestic policy when taking part in a foreign policy debate. This includes, among other things: therefore we participate and make choices, etc. But it is far from saying that the foreign policy positions are taken by overall domestic policy assessments. Of course, the representative Erik Solheim has no evidence of such a claim, and it characterizes the claim itself. On the other hand, I want to meet him and say that by drawing to keep that kind of post, it is probably Erik Solheim who makes domestic political motives superior to foreign policy, and makes this a major point. Here you can ask yourself: was it to legitimise his own position in SV, where Solheim has had major internal problems, that he would point out that he is far from the Progress Party in this debate, because we have mainly had a closely related position with Solheims on the Kosovo issue? Or – one might also ask – was the main motive to strengthen its own party and weaken the Advance Party? In any case, my conclusion is that the kind of speculation and the kind of motive debate are not suitable for being conducted in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e774	Fridtjof Frank Gundersen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e777	It was said that Romania had a poor economy, and that there were problems accepting refugees. So we're going to spend $12 billion on accepting refugees in this country. Would it not be an idea if the Ministry of Foreign Affairs made bilateral contact – and did not go through the High Commissioner – with Romania or Bulgaria and promised them some of these funds if they could receive more refugees? It sounds kind of strange that it's an economic problem, and we're just spending $15 million. kr, while we're going to spend 1.2 billion here. Why not be more active in arranging this abroad?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e785	I do have only 1 minute, and I am not sure it is possible to explain the representative Gundersen these questions within 1 minute. We've tried...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e790	The President notes that the time limit does not apply to the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e793	Thank you – but I don't think I'm going to make a long statement to the assembly at this time of the day. The representative, Mr Gundersen and I, may well disagree with the view on how refugees are treated and the economic, social and political consequences of the refugee situation we have in Kosovo today. We must help the refugees in the neighbourhoods, as the UNHCR has also said. It is an important principle for Norway that we make withdrawals of refugees and organise refugee transport in close cooperation with the UNHCR. It is the UNHCR that has this mandate from the United Nations. In the agreements that now exist, for example, in NATO. concluded with UNHCR, it is clear that the refugees are the responsibility of the UNHCR. It would be wrong for Norway to conclude bilateral agreements with Romania, and I think Romania would not be interested in it at all. This has to be done in order. We can't see again what we saw some of the first days from Macedonia, that people were forced on board buses to be driven to Turkey, or where it might be, against their will. You have to ask people, and you have to organise this in such a way that certain fundamental human rights are guaranteed. Therefore, it should be lacking that we in Norway, which has a good economy, do not help in the neighbourhoods while also assuming the responsibilities and obligations of accepting refugees in Norway. When the representative of Gundersen earlier referred to what France has said they should do now, I think it is also appropriate to recall what countries such as France and Germany, for example. has done so in the past. If I do not remember correctly, in Germany there are some 800,000 refugees from the former Yugoslavia, and that means that the situation for some of these major countries is completely different from that for Norway. We've thought that we've made a reasonable choice and a sensible decision by saying yes to up to 6,000 refugees at the moment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e804	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2865]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e817	Then we're ready for voting. To Case No 1 and 2 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e826	During the debate, Johan J. Jakobsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The agreement between the European Union and Iceland and Norway on the link between the implementation, application and further development of the Schengen acquis is dealt with by Stortinget under the Basic Law, § 93.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26-2.ana.ud1697e926	During the debate, Mr Gundersen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
