ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e26	The development of organised crime in Norway is worrying. A more serious and brutal crime of violence has developed. Criminals are increasingly resorting to violence and threats to secure their reindeer. These developments also lead to the victims of this type of crime being reluctant to report — not to mention — the situation. We experience that it is difficult to get convicted criminals because the witnesses are afraid of their lives and of their neighbors. The community has to do more with these relationships than we've been willing to do so far. We, as legislators, have to reconsider the methods of society to protect ourselves, before society becomes the great loser. Regrettably, crime is paying off for someone. Those behind organized crime are gathering enormous economic values. We have examples that criminals who have officially lived in social security, openly live on the so-called sunny side with houses, cars, boats and other values that obviously must originate from crime. It is, in my view, a progress that we have now opened up the possibility of making such values easier, but this is not enough. When the backers of organized crime are increasingly resourced in a society where more and more can be bought for money, we can finally experience that ‘criminal’ money threatens our own democracy. The Norwegian social system is probably the least corrupt in the world, and I see an opportunity that huge money accumulations in criminal environments can in the long run be a threat to a possibly a bit of ‘recognisable’ Norwegian society and political environment. Organized crime must not be allowed to evolve into this threat to democracy, as I know here. However, I would point out that we are facing a number of dilemmas and balances when we are about to step up the fight against organised crime. I would point out that for most of us, organized crime is nothing more than what we read about in the newspapers, when I ignore the fact that the purchase of contraband seems to be accepted in an increasing part of the population. It is a problem that needs to be solved in another way – I am thinking about our charging policy. Most people, however, are law-abiding, and they are more plagued by bicycle thieves and burglaries than by the activities of the alcohol and drug lords. I mention this because I see that when more of the attention is focused on organized crime, it can be improperly perceived as more challenging to conduct advanced investigations of the behinders' businesses than to move out and search for traces of petty criminals in our razed homes. However, this is the last majority of us to experience, and since it may be difficult to see the relationship between the drug addiction of the small criminal and the activities of the drug barons, we must also be willing to give the police priority to all forms of crime control. In other words, this means more money in the budgets, and I'm glad that the government has found the funds at this year's budget audit that everyone from this year's coal at the Police College gets employment in the police. In the Left, we are concerned that new methods available to us are bringing us to the limits of what we can allow for in the interests of the rule of law and privacy. The liberal dilemma lies in the balance between the legitimate need to protect the rule of law, while at the same time safeguarding fundamental privacy and legal certainty. It's this reflection I'm asking that the elected representatives be allowed to participate in. We have left the state of law if we cross borders where we allow ourselves to use the same methods that the offenders use, and there is a total increase in these assessments. New methods of investigation must only be used where the nature of the crimes is such that they threaten the interests of the Community in ways which I have mentioned at the outset. We also need to make sure that the methods we use are effective. Crime must not affect our society, but the instruments we use against crime must not affect social development. Some of the methods at our disposal interfere so far with the lives and rights of individuals that we cannot accept them. I look forward to hearing the Minister of Justice's assessments of these considerations. I'm talking about a fight against crime where we don't let go of the general principles of vision and choose simple and seemingly effective solutions. There's no simple answer to the questions I'm travelling here. We hear that the calls for quick and effective solutions are getting higher, but although they are getting stronger, we have to stand firm on keeping the boundaries and principles of the rule of law when we want to intensify the fight against crime. Privacy is one of the basic liberal principles. Individual citizens have the right to privacy and privacy. It is also overall that individuals have control of information stored about their own lives. Where will the Minister of Justice draw the boundaries of private life — our private spaces? Technical progress creates difficult challenges for privacy. It is possible to collect information that may appear to be harmless individually, but that put together can map a person's life in detail. There is little doubt in the Left that it involves a breach of privacy when a person’s movements and actions are monitored without being aware of it. Especially offensive will it be when such monitoring takes place in the private home. I am therefore pleased that the Minister of Justice has so clearly signaled that space listening is not a current instrument. It is a moment that it is not only the offender, but also others who may be affected by new methods of investigation. It is important to limit the use of methods that have such side effects. For example, you should not risk being tapped on your own phone if this has been accidentally called from a phone that has been legally intercepted. The protection of privacy applies, of course, both ways. The victim of a crime is, of course, the one who has the greatest reason to feel offended, let there be no doubt about it. It is, of course, the primary duty of the authorities to protect individuals from violations by others. Our liberal attitudes to protecting the private space must not be drawn so far that we forget this. Liberal principles must not slip into the indecisive. Legal certainty is another fundamental liberal principle. Individuals have the right not only to privacy but also the right to protection against abuse and arbitrariness by authorities. Everyone has the right to defend his or her legal interests. Therefore, good control mechanisms must be in place to ensure that the police in their investigation do not go beyond their powers. Legal certainty means protection against incorrect decisions. Information collected by new methods of investigation may be associated with sources of error which prevent their being defended for reasons of legal certainty. It is necessary to require evidence of the usefulness of new measures and methods. There must be a continuous evaluation of the effects of the methods tested. There must also be clarification of political responsibility. The methods shall be governed by law and the minimum use of powers and delegations shall be required. If we can't set clear limits on the use of the new investigation methods, we'll cross the boundaries of law-abiding society and into the world of criminals. Trusting each other is a prerequisite for sharing. If we cannot trust each other and our own authorities, we are doing the same kind of harm that the criminals do. Therefore, hidden intelligence, monitoring and control must not be generalised. In this article, I have highlighted the major challenges that organized crime is facing us. New and effective measures in the fight against crime are needed. At the same time, I have tried to point out some dilemmas that confront us. My question to the Minister of Justice will be: What action will he take to combat organised crime while safeguarding fundamental civil rights?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e66	I share the concern expressed by the representative Johansen in his interpellation regarding the scale and brutality of organised crime. Unfortunately, the trend in crime has shown a continuing negative trend over the past decade. In addition to the increase in the level of serious crime, we have also had a negative development in the nature of crime. The methods of crime change and are brutalised, while crime has become more international and organised. The element of organised crime in Norway is increasing as an ever-expanding element of crime from abroad. This hangs, among other things. a. together with increasing general internationalisation, with a background to changing social conditions both in Europe and in the rest of the world. Organised crime is particularly high in the areas of drugs, car and arms theft, prostitution, trafficking in human beings and other highly motivated crime. Crimes related to the smuggling of alcohol and cigarettes are examples of the last. Many of these crime areas are deliberately intertwined. Unfortunately, we also see signs of a combination of international crime with legal activities, such as: a. by money laundering of proceeds from crime. If criminal organisations gain power and influence in market and social structures, this can create very serious threats to established legal societies. We are facing major challenges in the future. Today’s situation within, inter alia. a. the area of drug crime is characterised by internationalisation. The criminals are more cynical and capable of combating police investigations. They have good knowledge of current investigation methods. These developments have updated the need to apply new investigation methods, also in view of an approach to methods in relation to other countries with which Norwegian police cooperate. The aim is to improve the police's ability to detect crime. The development of information and communication technologies is leading to major changes in the methods used by lawbreakers. Competence is here the police's best weapon. It is necessary to continue to invest in Ecocrime as a national centre of excellence in the fight against IT-related crime. It should not be the case that Norway is seen as a country where criminals have better working conditions than the rest of Europe. Ecocrime also has a key role to play in following up communications from banks and financial institutions on suspicious transactions. The extension of the Finance Act §2-17 has resulted in a large increase in the number of money laundering messages. The number of messages was 890 in 1988. By comparison, there were 164 messages in 1996. This government's criminal policy base is, among other things, a stronger fight against organised crime. This is expressed in several ways. In particular, on the legislative side, I would like to highlight three projects which have an impact on the fight against organised crime: Firstly, the Government last promoted a proposal for new rules on the withdrawal of dividends, which the Stortinget has recently adopted. The withdrawal of dividends is an important instrument in the fight against profit-based crime and a particularly important instrument against organised crime. If the offender expects him to retain the proceeds of the crime even if he is discovered, punishment will not have a good enough deterrent effect. It is also very unfortunate that profits from criminal offences should be able to finance new criminal offences. The amendment of the law means that the general rules on withdrawal become more effective than before. The purpose is to judge the involvement in several cases and to a greater extent than in the past. But against a small group of criminals, those who have crime as their way of life, the general rules will not be effective enough. Therefore, a completely new withdrawal scheme, called extended withdrawal, has been adopted. The scheme aims at those who feed on crime. Extended withdrawal is an important exception to the requirement for concreteisation. Such withdrawal shall be punishable in criminal proceedings in which the offender is convicted of serious crime which can bring significant profits. If these conditions are met, all economic resources belonging to the offender shall be available for withdrawal if he is not satisfied that the economic resources have been legally acquired. The new withdrawal rules need to be seen together with a number of practical measures that have been put in place recently to improve the effectiveness of the withdrawal institute. Among other things, measures have been put in place to improve the competence of investigators and police lawyers and to motivate and raise awareness among the police in the work on withdrawal cases. Positions have also been established as police auditors and a ‘user support scheme’ has been established at Ecocrim. Another important element in the fight against organised crime is the proposal for new methods of investigation, which was promoted last Monday. Changes in crime have meant that today’s investigation methods do not always extend, especially when crimes are committed by closed, organised criminal environments. Witnessing and insulting are not rarely threatened with silence. Voltage and infiltration can be difficult because the environments are closed, infiltration is often also dangerous. Provocation and other investigation methods have clear limitations. The Government therefore proposes, on the one hand, that the scope of telephone checks be extended and, on the other hand, that the police should be able to apply new methods of investigation. Today, telephone interception can only take place in drug matters and in matters relating to the Kingdom’s security. The proposal provides for the possibility for interception to be carried out in all cases of crime with a prison penalty of at least 10 years, as well as drug crimes and crimes against the security of the Kingdom. For other telephone checks, e.g. control of traffic data, it is proposed that the penalty framework requirement be imposed in prison for at least five years. The government is committed to the legalisation and extension of access to technical tracking. In addition, it is proposed to open up secret searches, secret seizures and secret extradition orders, i.e. notification of these coercive measures to the suspect is deferred. The government is opposed to opening up room listening. It pays particular attention to the fact that space listening is a highly intrusive investigation method, involving a significant and extensive interference with privacy. In assessing the methods of investigation to be used by the police, conflicting considerations apply. The importance of effective fight against crime must be balanced against the interests of privacy and legal certainty. I believe that the proposals contained in the proposal take sufficient account of privacy and legal certainty and that they do not conflict with our international obligations, including Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights. The conditions for using the intervention methods are strict and legal certainty guarantees are strong. In particular, I stress that, as a general rule, it should be the court that decides whether to apply the method in question and that the use of the method is limited in time. With regard to telephone checks in criminal matters in general or to the use of exceptional methods in matters relating to the Kingdom’s security, the use of such methods could be subject to control by the Control Committee. In order to further strengthen legal certainty, the Government has proposed the introduction of a system of defence for the suspect when the court decides not to notify the suspected use of coercive measures. The defence shall respect the interests of the suspect and shall be able to appeal. The new methods will be evaluated by the Ministry after three to four years. We do that to figure out if the methods have worked according to purpose, and if the goals we have set are being achieved. It may appear that the use of threats to the actors in criminal matters is an increasing problem. The Methodology Committee reports that not only witnesses but also police and judges are threatened with reprisals by criminals. Especially when the threat comes from an organised criminal environment, there is a real danger of represals, and in any case the fear of such represals is a major problem. The Ministry is therefore currently considering whether legislative changes should be proposed in order to strengthen legal protection for the actors in criminal matters. Among other things, the question of whether the use of anonymous witnesses should be opened up and whether a specific criminal code should be introduced to address threats to the actors in criminal proceedings. The United Nations is currently negotiating a convention against cross-border organised crime. The plan is for the Convention to be adopted in September 2000. It now participates 108 countries in the negotiations, including Norway. It is the idea that, among other things, the States Parties to the Convention: shall prohibit participation in criminal organisations and assist each other in facilitating the investigation and prosecution of cross-border organised crime. There are also three additional protocols to the Convention: one on illicit trafficking in firearms, one on trafficking in women and children and one on trafficking in human beings. But only methods and laws do not solve the problems. Knowledge of crime and its development combined with the maximum use of resources, both nationally and internationally, through inter alia: cooperation is another element that is essential for success. As regards police cooperation, active participation in Interpol, the World Customs Organisation – WCO, Baltic Sea cooperation and Schengen cooperation can be mentioned. Within the Baltic Sea cooperation, a dedicated action group against organised crime, BSTF – Baltic Sea Task Force on Organised Crime, has been established. This will develop and strengthen cooperation with the Baltic countries and Russia. Schengen cooperation helps to facilitate cooperation between police in European countries and will provide Norwegian police with access to a very rapid and effective search register, the Schengen Information System. Ot. pp. No 56 for 1998-99 on the necessary legislative changes in the Schengen context are presented for consideration in the Grand Duchy on 8 June. The Government also pursues negotiations with Europol on a cooperation agreement. A detailed explanation of the Government's views and reasons in this regard is presented to the Ot.prp Stortinget. No 64 for 1998-99 on legislative changes in the evaluation of the Methodological Committee. Europol is the EU Member States’ main joint action to prevent and combat serious organised crime, and there is a strong emphasis on cooperation with third countries. The Europol Convention entered into force in October 1998 and it is expected that Europol will become operational from 1 July this year. I shall not go further into the various measures mentioned, except, in conclusion, to say the following: it is hopeless for a declared liberal to stand up for a low-level attitude towards crime. A low-level attitude towards crime in practice leads to illiberality, because it undermines the liberal fundamental principles on which a state of law is founded. If these principles of law are undermined in the utmost sense by the fact that there is no evidence of a matter, then there is no matter. And if you don't have a case in order, you don't have a legal state either. Witnessing is in itself one of the expressions of being respected as a citizen, and being a citizen is what carries our whole democracy. In its extreme sense, the narrow, closed, profit-oriented, organised crime is a threat to the rule of law, and I believe that the Government, through the measures it has put forward, shows that it has the will to act harshly, but that it also, through measures such as the use of defenders, law-making and the willingness to evaluate the arrangements, takes care of the legal guarantees necessary when we first exceed the limits in order to defend the liberal values against those who will violate these values by gross, organised crime.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e127	The President has understood that the interpellant does not want to speak.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e130	I'm going to commend the interpellant for addressing a very important topic, namely the fight against organised crime. I cannot give justice in my post in three minutes. I also do not think this is the time to go into all the areas referred to by the Minister of Justice, all the time we have now received from the Government the position of the Methodological Committee, which deals with police working methods in the fight against organised crime, and because the second main pillar, international police and judicial cooperation, the follow-up to the Schengen Agreement, is being discussed in the Justice Committee these days. But just a few general considerations: I mean absolutely that we need an increased effort against organized crime, and it was also raised to a priority area by the previous government. The Minister of Justice explained that not too long ago in the United Kingdom, we adopted a more effective legislation on the withdrawal of economic benefits. I also think it is necessary to be targeted at organised crime, both to combat it and to prevent it. It also means that we now need a round of what organized crime really is, because we intuitively realize that it can be about profit-based crime, systematically and professionally organized with an international average. We think of matters such as drugs, money laundering, alcohol and cigarette smuggling, prostitution, which was also mentioned by the Minister of Justice. We simply need to define the concept of organised crime in order to be specifically targeted when we talk about more effective instruments. According to police data, there is less scope for organised crime in Norway than in other countries it is natural to compare with. But it's serious enough, and it also seems to have got a foothold within some crime types here in the country. And there is no doubt that organized crime in this country has also become more international, more professional, more organized and more aggressive. It is a serious development that we have to deal with, but, as I said at the outset, we have two main issues in the Justice Committee these days. There are more effective police methods, where privacy does not have to be an absolute limit to combating serious crime, and we have international police and judicial cooperation, among other things. through the Schengen Agreement and the issue of Europol. I would like to invite the interpellant back to the debate when the voting on these matters is going to be debated here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e141	I have to say that I was very surprised to see that kind of interference from the Left Party. It's a little unusual that that party is involved in crime and fighting crime. For some reason, the Left is also trying to put the fight against crime on the agenda. In this case, the fight against organised crime is involved. The representative Johansen says that the necessary measures are needed to combat this type of crime, but I do not see any concrete proposals here today that will be voted on. It is often far from word to action. There is so little help in adopting resolutions at national meetings, in the absence of such instruments. Too often, proposals to combat criminal acts and measures against criminal gangs getting footholds are voted down in this Chamber. The left has recently voted against the removal of the quantum discount for criminals, but instead it will continue to introduce major offenders in society. Furthermore, measures to strengthen the police and judicial system are being voted down. Today, we have a case of extra appropriations for the police – an agency that suffers from the lack of power of the political majority – that the Left will be in favour of voting down. The proposal of the Methodological Committee is now under consideration in the Justice Committee, which was also the subject of the Council of State and where consultations are now taking place. It has taken two years for this case to be dealt with, which can confirm the authorities' transfer of treatment and adoption of new police methods. The Progress Party believes that there is a strong need to take Norway’s most significant criminals, the cynical backers, who almost always go free. The police know a lot about who the backers are in organized crime, whether it's drug smuggling, alcohol and cigarettes, or exports of stolen cars, to mention something. Kosovo Albanians control 80 pst. of heroin imports. With its family ties, it looks like the Italian Mafia the most. The second most important drug imported is amphetamine, which is controlled by MC criminals and ex-Jugoslavs. Human trafficking is often organised by people of the same nationality. Several examples could have been mentioned, but those mentioned illustrate that much of organised crime comes through immigrants and is controlled by foreign cultural immigrants. While political parties faminate for solutions, criminal gangs are getting more and more footholds in the country. The chances of getting caught are smaller than in other countries, and the punishment is modest. The housing conditions in Norway are not comparable to those in the rest of the world and can sometimes be considered to be the pure holiday in the Bahamas. The proposal of the Progress Party that criminal foreigners be automatically expelled by a judgment of three months or more has been rejected by all parties, including the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e154	Like the representative Vidar Bjørnstad, I want to praise the interpellant for addressing a very important topic. I am particularly pleased that he is following the good traditions of the Left in worrying about privacy and legal certainty. However, when I do not wish to continue the debate today, it is with exactly the same reason that Bjørnstad gave that we have this matter under consideration in the Methodological Committee. We think it's pretty hopeless in a way. Now we both accept and invite people to the hearings on this matter, and then we can very well not stand here on the Stockholm pulpit and tell what we mean, before we let people come to the hearing to express their views. The same applies to Schengen cooperation, as Vidar Bjørnstad stated. I would like to welcome a wider debate on these matters at a later stage, and may well in and of course join in a bit on the way to what Mr L. Stang said, that there should not necessarily be too much distance between words and action. So if there are some parties in the room who want to reconsider their position in relation to additional appropriations for the police budget, it will be a good contribution to combating crime.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e163	I understand those who do not want to debate this when they are going to deal with it in committee. On the other hand, I have difficulties in understanding that when you sit and wait for a hearing, you cannot generally comment on the rise in the level of crime control and legal protection. When I promoted this interpellation almost four weeks ago, I was actually not aware that this was expected as soon as possible. But I look forward to the subsequent debate. I just want to say to the Progress Party that when the representative Stang says that the Left is not concerned with combating crime, it is a clear distortion of the views of the Left. He'll notice when the Minister of Justice gets to work. With regard to several of the proposals that the Progress Party has put forward, and which the Left has voted against, I must probably disappoint the representative, Mr Stang, saying that if they promote them again, we will probably also vote against them, because they are contrary to the fundamental principles of law that I have set out.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e172	I choose to see it so that once the Presidency has set up the interpellation, knowing well about the matters under consideration in the committee, it is because the matter itself is not elaborated on individual matters, even though they are important, but that there is always reason to draw a backcloth, and I think it is the back carpet that has been drawn with contributions from several representatives. I just want to briefly comment on it, the impression that commitment to these matters for me was going to be a new idea. You can easily figure that out by looking at different sides of the media when I represented a party that was smaller than today and was not the Council of State. One of my strongest political experiences was when I started talking about organized crime four-five years ago, and met deafening silence. I think it's due to two relationships. Most people do not face this crime, because what they face is punishment, violence and profit crime. But that's exactly what's the challenge of this crime. I think it is right that the representative, Bjørnstad, says that we are probably – probably – better off than others. But that's exactly what gives us an opportunity, both through the way we deal with things, and through the means we use, to act in such a way that we can be good enough. Just one of the things that could make a Norwegian debate about this through the issues that come later in Stortinget, is that with an open visor we dare to go in for tough methods and at the same time tell us how to control the methods so that we know where they are. It is precisely something we can note in Norway, that we may not choose the course that some other countries have chosen, that they only implement the methods in practice and then investigate what it is like. I just think that defending a state of law is to be perfectly conscious when you move the boundaries, because it's absolutely necessary to fight organized crime. Although I have deliberately not used the word ‘mafia’ because it relates to other associations, I have deliberately used the term ‘organized crime’. And I welcome the challenge that several of the representatives have presented, namely that we should be able to describe what it is. I am absolutely sure that we will be able to describe it in terms of the quality of crime, and I am absolutely sure that we will also receive a treatment of this which is worthy of the Norwegian state of law, and which at the same time is tough enough in the fight against organised crime. I choose to hear the signals from those who have now spoken in this short interpellation debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e181	The debate on substance is closed. So 14 is going to be over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e193	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers from each party group and after the contributions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e204	Arnulf Överland has in his poem ‘You must not sleep’, among others. said: 'You must not sit safely in your home and say, 'It is sad, poor them!You must not tolerate so intensely the field wrong that does not strike yourself!' I cry out at the last breath of my voice: 'You have no permission to go there and forget!Don't forgive them; they know what they are doing!They breathe on the glow of hate and wickedness!They like to kill, they rejoice in sorrow, they want to see our world in flames!They want to drown us all in blood!Don't you think so? You know that!" And at the end, Upperland says: "I thought, now it's a hand thing. – Our time is over – Europe is burning!’ When the Government of St. pp. No 59 In promoting proposals for additional appropriations in the 1999 State Budget for the reception of refugees from Kosovo, the proposal is based on a decision to receive 6 000 refugees from Kosovo. The decision was taken at the request of and in cooperation with the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, UNHCR. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees assesses Norway's withdrawal of Kosovo refugees as a positive and important contribution to humanitarian evacuation from the neighbourhood to Kosovo, mainly Macedonia. On the one hand, the objective of evacuation has been to facilitate the situation of vulnerable refugees and, on the other, to contribute to burden-sharing and to ensure that neighbouring countries are able to keep borders open against Kosovo so that refugees can obtain protection and assistance there. It is a pleasure for me, as the rapporteur-in-Office, to be able to conclude that the entire Committee supports the Government's proposal for additional appropriations in the State budget of NOK 1217 650 000. But I am surprised to note that the Progress Party will not take refugees to Norway, but channel all help to the neighbourhoods. For the Christian People's Party, it is not either – or, but a both – and. To keep the borders open, so that it would be possible to flee to Macedonia, we had to be willing to both take refugees to Norway and help in the neighbourhoods. St. Prop. No 59 are additional appropriations to take refugees to Norway. The Proposition is not about assistance in Kosovo’s neighbourhood, as the Progress Party distorts the case. The majority, the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left have noticed that the reception of 6,000 refugees from Kosovo is in addition to the ordinary quota, which for the current three-year period is set at 4,250 persons. The majority have also noted that the UNHCR is working to ensure that the return of the refugees is the permanent solution to the refugee situation. The purpose is to evacuate until return is possible. The majority also support the assumption that all those withdrawn have a need for protection in the sense that they cannot return to their country of origin in the present situation. The majority have also noted the priority given to families with children, the sick and the elderly and those closely related to Norway. The majority also indicates that persons entitled to family reunification under the applicable guidelines are not included within the quota of 6000. This is estimated to be 1 000 people. The expenditure associated with these is included in the draft budget. The majority support the Government’s proposal for increased appropriations for state reception and increased use of assistance from non-governmental organisations. It's a pleasure to record the high level of involvement of non-governmental organisations, among children in our schools holding bazaars and collections, and among individuals. The messenger of love lives: Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself! And the next one that's in trouble, we're happy to go home. The majority also support the Government’s proposals on the allocation of housing and integration grants as well as the increase in the housing grant scheme. The majority also support the proposal for increased appropriations for transport, administrative resources, education, labour market measures and health measures. I would particularly like to point out the 39 million grant proposal. kr to strengthen the post Grant for psychosocial work for refugees. A number of refugees have experienced very traumatic situations that need to be processed, as well as the traumatic nature of being a refugee. Finally, the majority support the Government’s re-disposal authorisation proposal if the costs of receiving refugees from Kosovo were to be lower than foreseen. Minor domestic consumption is then redisposed to increased efforts by refugees in the neighbourhood. I recommend the Committee's recommendations, I and II.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e265	For the sake of order, the President will only stress the importance of Paragraph 40 of the Rules of Procedure in terms of the use of quotations — without having any meaning in terms of content and form in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e268	Let me first say that I agree with the rapporteur's presentation of the case in its entirety, and let me again underline the Workers' Party's support for the Government's handling of the conflict in the Balkans. This also applies in this case, which is a necessary consequence of Norway accepting up to 6 000 Kosovar Albanian refugees with the addition of possible family reunification. However, the Workers' Party has a special note that we point to the fact that the Government, through the proposition, only promotes a proposal for appropriations without specifying in one word how the expenditure is to be financed. The Minister of Finance, by letter to the Workers' Party Group and in the revised national budget submitted, has shown that the funding will be made through a reduction in transfers to the State Petroleum Fund. We will therefore come back to funding in the course of the review of the revised national budget, and then in the light of the Government’s assessment of the situation in the Norwegian economy. The Labour Party believes that the humanitarian situation of the refugees in Kosovo and in the neighbourhoods of Kosovo is so dramatic that Norway needs to provide assistance across a wide range of areas of application. We believe it is right that Norway, together with other Western countries, should accept refugees, thus contributing to the stability of Kosovo's neighbourhoods. This is therefore not just an economic issue; it is primarily about fellow humanity and morality, which was also the subject of the case rapporteur. The Progress Party is trying to be generous in this matter and will set up refugee camps in Albania, Romania and Bulgaria, just not helping the refugees in Norway. This matter is not least about morality. It is in the light of such a position from the Progress Party that the moral concept becomes somewhat diluted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e279	We in the Progress Party note that the humanitarian disaster in the Balkans is only getting bigger and bigger. We note that new information makes it necessary to step up efforts from the Norwegian side, perhaps even more so now than when this option was created. Norway now accepts 6 000 refugees on a collective basis for housing as soon as advice is given in Norwegian municipalities. The cost of this is calculated to be approximately $12 billion in 1999 after the proposition. I point out that Stortinget after recommendation in Innst. S. No 149 only allowed 225 million. kr for work in the vicinity. If one set of these two numbers up against each other – what I do, and that with a good conscience – I think there is little agreement between the government's information that it is most important to help in the vicinity, and the suggestions for the promises that are proposed: 195 million. kr for use in the surrounding area, cf. St. pp. No 56, and in St. Prp. No 59, roughly $12 billion for 6,000 refugees in Norway. As a result of family reunification in practice, there is already evidence that the number over time could be much higher, with much higher costs. What does one do when the quota of 6,000 might have been filled in the next week? In this context, I would also argue that family reunification would be much easier – and better – if one were to stay in the vicinity. I am aware that there are different domestic political situations in Montenegro, Macedonia and Albania as a result of the great Kosovo Albanian refugee dream. It is difficult for the Yugoslav Republic of Montenegro and the independent country of Macedonia of both of them to have large Albanian minority groups, so that a large Albanian refugee dream could destabilise the balance of the referendum. I have noticed, however, that Albania is in favour of receiving Albanian refugees if the country receives help in the form of food, clothing, medicine and the right to accommodation or money to pay for this. We in the Progress Party believe that from the point of view of the situation, Norway should help to take the refugees out of Montenegro and perhaps out of Macedonia, but above all to refugee camps in Albania and possibly in Romania and Bulgaria. I want to refer to St.prp in relation to this. No 59, which it is called: ‘The UNHCR is further working to ensure that return to Kosovo is the permanent solution to the refugee situation. NATO and the international community aim to establish a security regime for Kosovo that will enable refugees to return to Kosovo in security. The withdrawal of refugees from Kosovo is mainly carried out in accordance with the same principles as have been established for the withdrawal of transfer refugees in the past, although the objective of this situation is not a permanent solution, but evacuation until return is possible.» We believe that this can best be solved by not taking the refugees out of the vicinity, but creating refugee camps there and preferably with Norwegian assistance. I would like to show here that the Progress Party will help the refugees in the neighbourhood. And I want to add that if we had seen that it was most profitable -- not economically profitable, but best for the refugees -- to take them to Norway, we would have done it, as we are in such a situation. But we think that help can best be given down there. Here I'll call it a case of the Inst. S. No 149, where we would spend 300 million. kr more than the multiple in this room. The government thinks the suspension should be temporary. With that in mind, I find it strange that the promise proposed in the proposal has a longer delay in Norway. I'm referring to the government suggesting that resources go to government reception where the refugees are likely to be 6-7 months long. They propose expenditure on construction, integration, education and labour market measures. All these are long-term measures that indicate that refugees are bowing in Norway, and should not return home as intended. What does the government really mean? People in Albania, the government of Tirana, representatives of the UN High Commissioner, the OSCE and the voluntary aid organisations all believe that the only future for the refugees is that they can return to Kosovo. Emigration to a number of countries is not considered a good solution. All these organisations believe that our country must provide assistance to create refugee camps in Albania, Macedonia and in the future in Kosovo. In this respect, I would like to point out that the President of the Western Union made a trip to Albania in April of this year. In that case, he wrote a letter to his secretary-general and expressed the same thing: ‘In the case of refugees, it should be noted that the Kosovars themselves, as well as the people of Albania, the Government of Tirana and representatives of the High Commissioner of the United Nations, the OSCE and the voluntary aid organisations, all believe that the only future for the refugees lies in their being able to return to Kosovo. Emigration to a number of countries is not considered a good solution. All these organisations believe that our countries must provide assistance to establish camps in Albania, Macedonia and in the future, Kosovo. The spread of refugees, although in the name of solidarity, is a poor solution.’ The President further states: ‘They’ – he believes the Albanians – ‘calls on the international community to provide financial assistance to Albanian families who care for refugees’. I mean from this that it seems strange that the Norwegian government will spend $1.2 billion on taking 6,000 Albanian refugees to Norway, while this sum would be enough to help 13 times as many refugees in Kosovo’s neighbourhood, perhaps even more. In that case, I can take that one for $15 million. D established a refugee camp for 5,000 refugees in Romania. This suggests that one could help a lot of refugees in the area for $1 billion. The size only allowed 225 million. kr in connection with Innst. S. No 149 for 1998-99. I would like to repeat that in the same setting, the Progress Party proposed an additional 300 million. kr for the same purpose. We in the Progress Party will help the many out there, instead of helping them get home here. And this is honestly meant if someone should have thought that this is a game that we are running – which I have both seen and heard that some claim. We in the Progress Party are of the opinion that the money that one of the proposals proposes to grant to Kosovo Albanian refugees in Norway should be channelled to help the neighbourhoods. In this context, I would like to refer to the response letter from the Council of State dated 5 May 1999 on nine written questions from the Progress Party’s large group dated 4 May 1999. The answers substantiate our belief that help has to be channelled into the vicinity. In our opinion, it is and will be the best and most forward-looking aid we can provide in Norway, for the benefit of the refugees themselves and for the reconstruction of Kosovo. That the government has not contacted e.g. Bulgaria, on the construction and operation of refugee camps, shows that until now, according to my opinion, the Government has had a passive attitude to helping out in the vicinity, as the Government claims is necessary and a priority task. We in the Progress Party will not be passive to this disaster that is taking place in the Balkans, and will make suggestions to grant $1217 650 000 to Chapter 191, item 70 on human rights, humanitarian aid and refugee measures – $12 billion to help the many, and there are many who need our help now. How we can imagine using these money, we can read it in the settings. I will then finally take up the suggestion that is included in the setting on page 6.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e333	Sir. Solholm has mentioned the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e338	The representative of Lodve Solholm stressed that the Progress Party will help the refugees in the neighbourhood. He even claimed that "this is honestly meant". There are, in fact, ways of referring to that kind of statement, which is not particularly parliamentary. Let me refer to Budsj.int. S. In 1998–99, which is just about helping out in the neighbourhoods. It is clear that the members of the Progress Party within Framework 4 of the State budget will almost halve the appropriations for that type of purpose and say: ‘These members are aware that significant parts of the world’s population live in poverty and distress, but will point out that this is primarily due to internal cultural and administrative problems. It has been primarily a matter of one party states that have been governed by a privileged authority that supports the military, the police and a corrupt bureaucracy’. So here we're talking about halving the appropriations that are just going to help out in the neighbourhoods. But in this situation, it is opportunistic to grant corresponding amounts of local aid, and then the question is, Is it appropriate to do so on the basis of the broad opinion which is in favour of Norwegian assistance to the Kosovar Albanian population, or is there any other idea behind the proposal to grant it in the context of the State budget?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e350	I get indignant when I hear the representative Eriksen trying to put an honest attempt to tackle a conflict as serious as this, in discredit. Who is to have a monopoly on the truth? Is it so that only the Workers' Party should have a monopoly on the truth? Is it true that only the Labour Party is entitled to present proposals that are honest, that are well-meaning, and that are indebted to provide help to a nascent people? It seemed this way to me when I heard the representative Eriksen, both in this line and in his main post, an article that was no different from taking a distance from the Progress Party. Not one word came Eriksen with when it spelled out his or his party's efforts to help the refugees in the vicinity. His party was involved in allowing a total of 225 million. kr to the refugees in the vicinity. It was actually a proposal of another 300 million. kr for help in the vicinity, but the raw Odd Eriksen and his party against. We can also find in our party unparliamentary words and expressions of such postures if that's what it wants. When it comes to the quoted quote, I just want to say that in the Progress Party we have always argued that we should help the refugees in the neighbourhood. In this case, we have a special responsibility, as we are a country in war, and as Norway was in the rush to get NATO to go in and do the job that the world community thought was necessary, and as I think was necessary, to stop a despot of Milosevic's character.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e357	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e360	This matter has been debated quite thoroughly in advance. I refer to the debate on Document No. The 8-proposal by Johan J. Jakobsen, promoted and dealt with in the Stortinget on 6 May this year. Document No. 8:57 mentions the formal authorisation or authorisation to receive up to 6 000 refugees from Kosovo, but the debate during the examination of the case was relatively thorough. What is it to add today — perhaps an additional assessment and clarification? In the past, it has been emphatically stated that Norwegian refugee policy consists of helping as much as possible in their neighbourhoods. Then there is a minority to score further political points on the excellence of providing the help ‘down there’, as it is constantly said. For some listeners, it may sound ‘down there’ extra reassuring. The relationship is just that we're not talking about either – or, as it's been said before, but about both – and. So this was repressively fixed here in the hall on May 6th. Following that debate, the Ministry has decided to increase the pace of exit to Norway. This is done after reinforced appeal from the UN High Commissioner. In view of this, the minority's proposals today appear to be extremely poor. The proposal and the majority position have the necessary flexibility, which, within the upper limit, has buffer capacity and which, moreover, also fulfils the minority’s primary desire, namely to provide assistance in the neighbourhood. However, if we have a positive surprise, which means that the ceiling in Norway, which we are now dealing with, is not being exploited, it is precisely in the proposition and the setting opened so that the funds can be channelled to the neighbourhoods without renewed political treatment. Similar flexibility is not to be found in the minority proposal. The right has found it natural to support the Government's proposal, despite the fact that on an earlier date and on a different basis we have had divergent proposals on some of the items in question. We have at the moment refused to complicate this picture. Our commitment and shared responsibility in the refugee issue shall not be questionable. With regard to the financing of the additional expenditure, we record that the Workers' Party has joined our focus on the revised national budget. In fact, the need to ensure the integrity of the economy requires a responsible majority. The setting shows that sometimes it is right to say: yes, thank you, both parts – full support for the refugee proposal and reference to the responsible financial integrity.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e374	The issue we are now dealing with has come up in the light of ever-increasing appeals from the UN High Commissioner for Refugees asking for more and more refugees. In this context, the proposals of the Progress Party become somewhat incomprehensible. We're facing a precarious refugee situation that is of such dimensions that we can't understand it. We have a duty to help. It also realizes the Progress Party. But we have far better opportunity to help by opening up the borders of our country. Here the auxiliaries are finished. It's not right to kick the ball over to poor neighborhoods. We have duty, and we have opportunity. I'm very happy that we're using that opportunity. I am pleased with the government's positive commitment, and I fully support the rapporteur's presentation of the committee majority's position. But once we've got the refugees here to Norway, it's also important how they're treated. I would like to stress the importance of making a rapid settlement around the individual municipalities. In this context, it is also important to quickly identify education and work experience for refugee groups. The groups of refugees we now receive have been exposed to pressures that I don't think any of us can understand. The way they are received will be crucial for their future development and opportunities. We have an obligation not only to accept, but also to take care of the refugees that are now coming. We know that the best way to get ahead in life is for someone who has been suffering great traumas, first of all, to meet humanity, meet warmth, meet contact – you don't understand the language, a vast and warm hand can do the same good as some understandable glosses. It is also important to experience that you have importance as a human being, as a person, and that your resources are valued. Therefore, a survey of the competences of these persons could enable them to get into work more quickly and enter into meaningful activities. Participation in work will also improve contact with the population of municipalities, it will increase understanding, and it will provide mutual learning. We're not just giving through this, I think we can also receive lessons. Now it's really a pretty good time to get the most refugees into work. We are facing a very busy spring and summer period in Norwegian agriculture, and we know that many of the refugees who come have experience in agriculture. Highly specialised tasks are not the only ones carried out. I hope that we will be able to make use of this opportunity. How refugees are met now is not only crucial to their prospects for positive development, but it will also be crucial for how well they will be able to return to their areas of origin on the day that is possible. Finally, I must also underline what has now been said by several, including the Government, that any under-use here in Norway we will use to help in the neighbourhoods.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e389	SV supports the Government's proposals in this respect. It was just supposed to be missing. As others have said here, Norway is directly responsible for this conflict in a completely different way from what we are in relation to other refugee disasters, whether we believe that our responsibility is also great there. The situation in neighbouring countries makes it necessary to take a proportion of refugees to Norway. If you look at the figures here, i.e. 6,000 to Norway and hundreds of thousands to many of the poor neighbouring countries, the debate in Norway is about both money and the number of very small and completely out of perspective. No mention is made here of the fact that Norway can decide that Bulgaria or Romania should set up refugee camps. If necessary, these countries must take their own initiative and wish. If they do, it should not be on SV to get the money to create it. That may be necessary. But in order for this situation to be resolved, so that the tension in the neighbourhoods should not be triggered by an even greater conflict than the one we see today, it is necessary that high-cost countries also take refugees into their territory. I would like to remind you that Norway is close to Kosovo. If you study the globe and look at it a little bit, as it was mentioned in a line change here when we debated the matter the last time, you will quickly discover that this is very close to Norway. So that's our neighbourhoods we're talking about. Then we have to take our responsibility, and then it's not just about money, it's about taking out a certain number of refugees. If it is the case that the High Commissioner for Refugees, who organizes this work, asks for more money to run refugee camps, either in Albania or in other areas, and they need it, they should get it. That's the signal SV will give today. If it is the case that the High Commissioner also asks Norway to take more refugees into Norway, Norway should agree to it. Norway is a strong country, and we have a debate on the use of money — whether they can be used in Norway or whether they can be used elsewhere. If it were to be such that the work of maintaining and operating refugee camps in other countries is now under pressure, and there are difficulties, Norway’s wealth should be used to remedy it. It will not destroy the Norwegian economy at all. From the SV we see that maybe some of the most important things we can do now, also to secure our own future, is to ensure that the refugees are accepted and have a safe place to be. Then there's a debate about the purpose of taking the refugees out now. Some people try to see some kind of notion that those who say that they should take refugees to Norway want them to come here and be here. Incidentally, everyone believes that the main point here must be that they should be able to return to Kosovo as soon as possible. But there's a conflict down there, and that's why Norway was initially involved. To see a notion that this can happen very quickly, and that everyone can return instantly if you were so lucky to come to a peace solution, it's naive. So regardless of whether the refugees come to Norway, whether they get to live here, if they get a job, if they get treatment for the health care system, that doesn't prevent them from moving home again. Rather, it will be an advantage for them, because by getting a good reception here and a somewhat worthy life will be better able and much better equipped to return home that day it may be possible. Like Odd Eriksen of the Workers' Party, I would like to take the opportunity to mention the funding, but I would also have to return it a little bit to the Workers' Party, because they also have a bleak tendency on the question of how to finance refugee work in Norway, to balance it with unhelpful money. It has been said over and over again by a majority in the United Kingdom, in the position after the vote, that you should stop, but every year you continue with that policy. The Workers' Party does, and this matter should be brought to an end.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e406	For the second time in this decade, we are experiencing a refugee disaster in our neighbourhood that has driven over a million people away from their homes. The situation of refugees from Kosovo has triggered widespread popular involvement in many European countries, including Norway. Many people have asked, what can we do? How can we help as many people as possible? As politicians, it is our responsibility to respond to the challenges we are now facing. I am therefore pleased that everyone believes that we should do a lot to help the refugees, and a collective municipal committee is in favour of granting 1,217 million. kr to help the refugees from Kosovo. The disagreement is about how we're going to use the funds. The majority agree with the Government's proposal that we both provide help in neighbouring countries and provide protection and help to some of those who need it most in this country. The reply of the Party shall be that the aid shall be given only in the ‘close area’, without the lot clearly defining the proximity. Historically, compared to similar refugee disasters in Africa, Asia and Latin America, it is evident that Norway will be considered a neighbourhood. In fact, the distance from Kosovo to the Lion Hill is less than the distance from Vietnam to Hong Kong, Malaysia and the Philippines, or from Argentina and Chile to Mexico. Of course, it is tempting to do calculations that show how many more we can help if all the help is used in countries like Albania, Romania and Bulgaria. What is then overlooked is that it has actually been a condition for many to be given protection in neighbouring countries, for some to be given protection in other countries. In order for people fleeing inside Kosovo to be allowed to enter Macedonia, it has been absolutely essential that someone has been able to travel on. The Macedonian authorities have deliberately used the closure of border bombs to push the international community to move ahead with the evacuation. Without Norway and other countries responding quickly to the call for a humanitarian evacuation, probably many of the refugees had not come out of Kosovo. What alternatives have we had? Could we all pass on to Albania, as some have suggested? After even visiting Albania and Macedonia, I think it could have led to the entire reception and auxiliary equipment in Albania being in danger of collapse. The situation could have quickly come out of control, and we could have faced a situation where we might have had to evacuate an even larger number than what is happening now. A majority of the committee has joined the Government's proposal not only to provide protection in a reception here in the country, but also to give refugees the opportunity to live as normal a life as possible. It means the fastest possible settlement in a municipality in the same way as other refugees who have received a residence and work permit here in the country. This means qualification for Norwegian working life, education in Norwegian and social knowledge for adults, primary education for young people aged 16-20 years who do not have equivalent from their home country, the right and obligation to regular primary education for children and a strengthening of the provision of health care. Some will probably question our strategy that refugees should be settled in a municipality as soon as possible and have the opportunity to live a normal life. Shouldn't the refugees return quickly, ask someone. We believe that active participation in working and social life is important both for the individual refugee's ability to take responsibility for their own life situation here in the country and for the ability to master one in many ways probably just as difficult to return on the day it becomes possible. I think I have everyone with me in the hope that all the Kosovo refugees will have the opportunity to go home and participate in the reconstruction of their country as soon as possible. When that can happen, none of us know. Whatever the case, I think it's right to invest in the fastest possible settlement and integration. We'll earn it, and they'll earn it, no matter when return is possible. The experience of the Bosnian conflict shows that it was right to bet on the two-track race. The possibility of active participation in work and social life in exile has been and is, in fact, an important element of an active return strategy. Norway received fewer refugees from Bosnia than Sweden and Denmark, yet we have the most returnees. To those who are skeptical of our commitment to both integration and return, I would say one thing: Listen to the refugees themselves, what do they think is important? Talk to refugees who have returned to Bosnia, and you get answers. A most normal life in Norway, with work and Norwegian friends, is an important resource on the day they pack and go home. In conclusion, let me say that I am very pleased that there is broad support for the principle that any minor costs associated with the reception in this country can be re-disposaled to help the neighbourhood above the U.D. budget. This is an important principle of refugee policy, which shows that we have a comprehensive refugee policy, which sees protection in this country in the context of aid and assistance in the neighbourhood.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e425	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e428	In the context of the grant of residence and the increase in the appropriations proposed here, some legitimate doubts have been raised as to whether this is in fact sufficient, in particular because the Government has an ambition that the removal of asylum recipients should increase especially for those who have been there for a long time. In an answer that the Government has given to my request to the Committee, it argues that the allocation is large enough. But there is reason to believe that there are no dwellings that are empty, and that you may also need to start building to get this done. Then my question is to the Council of State: Why has the Government assessed it so that it has not been necessary to propose an increase in the house banking framework so that municipalities could possibly start construction projects in order to make increased settlement in the municipalities possible?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e433	In the government's view, the Husbank's arrangements will be sufficient to meet the demand that will arise. Of course, it is always difficult in advance to have an exact answer on how much demand will be, but from the Government it has had to be estimated. We believe that the housing grant scheme, start-up loans and purchase loans, as they are today with the increase of 75 million. the Government has proposed shall be comprehensive. It is important to note here that the 75 million are not, of course, intended as full funding, but as a subsidy that represents a share of the funding both for the purchase of used dwellings and for the financing of new dwellings.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e440	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e445	The Progress Party does not deny itself in its intrepid struggle to prevent refugees from coming to Norway. Because that's what their commitment to this and relevant issues is really about. The fear of aliens inflicting mental and other plagues on the Norwegian people as well as financial exclusions is becoming increasingly new. I don't have the habit of taking what people say, up in the worst sense, on the contrary, to the best of my ability I always try to live up to my child learning about the opposite. But in this case, I can't do it. After all the advance party posts in this room on refugee policy, even in Question Time, it is not credible that the party assures of its honest intentions in this matter. At a time when we are constantly shown that the greatest challenge for humans will be to create conditions that enable everyone to live side by side, regardless of race, skin color and cultural background, the Progress Party in every case does its utmost to breathe into the intolerance that will always be present everywhere. In today's debate, the party is trying to play the role of the party that more than anything else cares about the woes of refugees and well. But everyone who has joined in the party's argument knows that these are games for the gallery and rail argumentation. The concern is quite different. Once again, we are shown that the Progress Party is responsible for the complete emotional debt. Because it's not like they're burning for the refugees' situation. What they are afraid of is that some people will remain in Norway after conditions allow them to move back. It's well expressed through their proposal to allocate 300 million. to assist the neighbourhoods more than the Government, but under the clear assumption that no refugees from Kosovo are to be admitted to Norway, as Torbjørn Andersen has said in a reading article. The formulations of family reunification also confirm that this is the main objective. After several weeks of presenting television reports from the situation of refugees in neighbouring countries to Kosovo and hearing their horror stories about what they have experienced, it should not be difficult for any civilized person to understand that someone needs to get away from the atrocities of war – not just geographically far away, but to completely different circumstances and surroundings. It's sick and old, there are hundreds of children who have lost their entire family. That the Progress Party is unable to understand this and is not willing to sacrifice a crown to this kind of help, says everything about this party's policy. According to the Progress Party, the poorest and most difficult and politically unstable countries in Europe are expected to receive hundreds of thousands of refugees, while Norway is not even going to accept a few thousand of the worst. The fact that other countries become even more multi-cultural and multi-ethnic is, according to the view of the Progress Party, entirely in order, only Norway can be protected.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e460	I would like to take the floor to state the following: On a broad basis, the government has assessed not only the national basis for making an effort but also the international basis. As the Council of State, Mr. Enoksen, was involved in his speech, he has not only, but also the Minister of Foreign Affairs and signed actively sought international contacts to see what is right. And it makes an improper impression on a Norwegian State Council that is present at a refugee conference in Geneva, to get thanks both from the UN High Commissioner and from the United States in an open forum because we have taken responsibility and acted in such a way that we made sure that a situation that was about to become hopeless was not. I then aim for the situation in Macedonia. Let me also be allowed to say, after visiting what in its time was called the lighthouse of socialism in Europe – not by most Norwegian social democrats or left socialists, but by the old Marxists in the ACP – that after studying this lighthouse closely, most people will understand that there are limits to what the lighthouse can bear from stress. For one who has been a Minister of Transport, even the most crowded roads in Norway will look like autostradas in relation to some of the things you see yourself, for example. on the way from Tirana’s main aerodrome to the capital. This country has a fragmented infrastructure, it has a non-existent infrastructure, and of course there are limits to what it can be burdened by external challenges, even if it has a family structure and a political culture that makes it open. In that situation, there is a simple moral principle that applies, and that is that one must share responsibility, and one must divide it in such a way that responsibility is borne not only by the poorest but also by the richest. In this situation, Norway has been in a tradition with other western countries. But it is not to hide that many thought that we acted right at the time when we acted with broad support in the Stortinget so that we could accept refugees to Norway. There is no doubt that it solved a hopeless situation in Macedonia. And let me underline: Macedonia is today a country with 40 pst. unemployment. You have 40 pst. unemployment is more than a political wonder that you can keep the country as walking as you do and accept the refugees you can. It should be lacking, then, that one cannot stand for the simple act of solidarity; it is to show that one can actually share the burden with a country which has received so much unemployment beyond 100,000 refugees. It is on that basis that we have acted – not just morally, but practically and realistically necessary. There was no point in ensuring that Milosevic’s strategy continued to succeed by destabilising more and more countries in this area. It would, in fact, strengthen this politician, who seems to be getting fed by more and more defeats, and who seems to be growing up in the spirit of primitive nationalism, that is, getting stronger and stronger the more banks you get. There is no need to contribute to such a policy, nor has Norway done so.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e473	I didn't intend to extend this debate, but when the representative Gunnar Breimo arrives at this pulpit and is going to play the weekend in the way he did, with the argument he had, where he takes from politicians it to have honest opinions about helping people who are in need – well knowing that using $12 billion down there will help separate more poor, old, burned, war-damaged, young and over $12 billion in Norway – I have to say that one can talk about morality and shame, but then to those degrees to owe political opponents for dishonest reasons, I wouldn't have done in my wildest imagination to political opponents if I disagreed with them. One may have reason to be indignant about righting such an argument as that put forward by the representative Gunnar Breimo. In fact, we have some support for our argument, for example. by the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Western Union, who says exactly what we are saying, that it would be wise to help. I agree so far with the Dørum Government Council when he talks about what Macedonia and Albania have done is really good, when you think about the economy and the difficulties that they have. They've really set up, and that's what the Progress Party's proposal is about: Let's help them! If one is studying the proposal we have made, one will see that we will help them financially, strengthen their own economy – not just run refugee camps, but we will strengthen their economy, so that they will get the wheels to go even better. I hope to let go of hearing more such posts where a set of honest people's views and opinions then to the degrees of doubt's altar.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e480	Now maybe the previous article was not directly addressed to me and SV. But it is the case that the Progress Party does not have a credible argument in this matter, for in so many other cases they have argued completely imprecisely and have had motives that none of the other political parties agree with. The representative Solholm is being indignant, I can understand, because I can see that he may not have liked all of the extremes that have come from his own party in this matter, but it is in the light of the profile that the handling of the Progress Party in this matter must be seen. Unfortunately, it takes time to rebuild trustworthiness, when it comes to the fact that the first and most important thing of the Progress Party is that no immigrants or refugees come to Norway; that it is heart issue no. 1, and they use every opportunity and every argument to substantiate it. Now that they're talking about the neighbourhood, they're not referring to geography, that Norway is actually a neighbourhood, that this is a country in Europe. They choose to talk about economics as if it were the most important thing. But if you're going to pursue that thinking, you're always going to end up with no refugees coming to Norway, regardless of whether there should be refugees from Kola in Russia, because Norway is a high-cost country. Norway is a high-cost country, and it will cost more to take refugees to Norway, also because Norway chooses to treat refugees properly in terms of housing, health care and education. The impact of the party’s juggling with concepts such as neighbourhoods and costs will result in Norway never accepting a single refugee. They are to be accepted down there or away, or in other countries cheaper than Norway, and only waiting for the proposal that x number of refugees should be offered to the cheapest country in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e488	I didn't intend to take the floor in this debate, but the last article made me do it anyway. There was talk in a very negative way of offering refugees. We haven't talked about that. And we haven't talked about the economy itself being the most important thing. We've said that with the economy you make available, you should be able to try to help as much as possible. We know that in Macedonia, Montenegro, Albania and possibly in Bulgaria and Romania, there is no financial opportunity to help many. That's where the need is and the cries for financial assistance come. Then I get to shoot that it is so that in a way, the Norwegian government practices with Stortinget's connection already some kind of tender – here in Norway. There are many different operators of refugees who are now agreeing with the Directorate for Foreign Affairs. So if you were to say that there are refugees on the offer, they are, to a very large extent, in a way on offer in Norway, not just on money, but of course also on the quality treatment and quality content. Then I'll be allowed to add what Lodve Solholm also stressed, that by providing financial help to these countries, we would help many more. The Minister of Justice pointed out the enormous problems of unemployment in Macedonia. What you need is just money to hire more people, and giving money to establish refugee camps will also create a lot of jobs. We have to look in the eye that there are reports of problems that our authorities and the Foreign Affairs Directorate have in getting the jobs out. Here, 1.5 billion kroner are to be pumped into the Norwegian economy, which is a press economy. In addition to the number of refugees who could be helped in the neighbourhoods, consider the growth of activity — jobs and general improvement of wealth in this way — if the funds were used down there. As far as I understand, it is that the Right Party and the Labour Party have suggested that there are problems in using these NOK 1.2 billion in the Norwegian economy within the framework of what is fiscal – that is, the pressure in the economy – responsible. The two parties have pointed out that problem. It would have been better to have created activities and helped a lot more by using the funds in the neighbourhoods. Here, the Government has shown a very high level of inaction in investigating the possibilities for the establishment of much more refugee camps, driven, organised and funded by the Norwegian side. The fact that we might be alone, we're used to it. It takes a few years for others to come after.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e501	It was the post from the representative Hagen that made me take the floor. Once again, we experience in this Chamber that the leader of the Progress Party is trying to present the Progress Party as something other than what it really is. We get in this case, as in a lot of other things, a good picture of what the Progress Party really stands for. What the Progress Party really stands for in these kinds of things is that it is talking fine about solidarity, but for God's sake – excuse me, President – keep them far away, don't come here with people in need of one of the world's richest countries. Torbjørn Andersen, representative of the Progress Party – says in the Fädrelandsvenn of 12 May: ‘One should look for a long time for a more misunderstood response to the refugee problem in Kosovo than is currently the case in Norway.’ That is what we are discussing here today. I wonder why the Progress Party is so afraid to receive people in distress. I wonder why the Progress Party believes that people in need of help in the most distress should not be well received in one of the richest countries in the world. Is it not true that showing solidarity must also apply in practice – that it is not enough to talk about it, but that we also have to do it? Is it not important to share responsibility? And isn't it that it would just be missing if we, as one of the richest countries in the world, were to do that? I think the Progress Party should be honest and upright in relation to what they think – attitudes and opinions that we in the Labour Party and the majority in this Chamber take a strong distance from.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e519	I notice that the representative Sylvia Brustad uses the old technique that she knows what we stand for, she draws a picture of what we stand for – which is wrong – and then she takes a distance from the image she herself has made. Otherwise, as far as the article is concerned, I just want to say that we choose to show solidarity by helping 75 000 people in need, where the majority chooses to help 6,000.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e526	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th [[Fotation, see page 3299]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e534	We are then ready to start voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e631	During the debate, Mr Kleppe presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and assess another organisation of toll projects based on its own financial responsibility for the toll company.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e670	During the debate, Mr Simonsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to reverse its decision on the conditional amnesty of foreigners covered by the so-called Quetta and Lao projects.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e699	During the debate, Mr Simonsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 1999 budget shall be amended as follows: Cape. 440Police and man-made seat01Operating expenditure, increased by NOK 50 000 000 from NOK 5 180 565 000 to NOK 5 230 565 000. 551Regional economic development in counties and municipalities58Regional coordination measures, fund,reduced by NOK 50 000 000 from NOK 100 000 to NOK 50 000.’ Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposal of the Party of Progress and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e769	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the meeting of the Odelsting on 4 May 1999: ‘In 1999, the Government asks the Government to promote concrete legislative proposals and measures to prevent the collection of crimes before a criminal reaction, without removing the individual criminal measure.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e784	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the meeting of the Odelsting on 4 May 1999: ‘The Government of the State Budget for 2000 is asked to present concrete measures that reduce the time lag between criminal action and criminal response.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e798	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the meeting of the Odelsting on 4 May 1999: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider an amendment to Section 62 of the Criminal Code so as to allow for the imposition of stricter maximum penalties for more than the current rule with a maximum limit of 1 1⁄2 times the penalty limit for the most serious of the convicted cases to allow access to.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e804	President! That was an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e811	Ågot Valle – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e814	During the debate earlier today I said that SV would vote against this proposal because it gives some signals about lifting the maximum penalty that we cannot agree to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e819	Then those who need it have noticed this, and there is a vote on the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e830	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Kristin Krohn Devold on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right sent from the meeting of Mr Odelsting on 4 May 1999: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the prosecution instructions in such a way that serious crimes committed by young people provide a greater basis for requesting custody.’ The President assumes that the Advance Party and the Right will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e848	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the meeting of the Odelsting on 4 May 1999: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit an overall plan of action and measures to combat criminal acts among children and young people, including reactions as well as prevention, and to present it to the Storting in an appropriate manner during 1999.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e859	Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e866	During the debate, Mr Solholm put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 1999 budget is subject to the following changes: Cape. 191Human rights, humanitarian aid and refugee action70Assistances to human rights, humanitarian aid and refugee measures, may be transferred, increased by NOK 1 217 650 000 from NOK 1 473 000 to NOK 2 690 650 000.’ Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposal of the Party of Progress.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e1367	The President will wait to refer case No. 215. Further references were made:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e1389	The Presidency's position is that the proposal should be forwarded to the Business Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e1392	This is not the first time the Storting debated the discussion of a Document No. Eight proposals. The last time I attended such a debate was six months ago, when Stortinget debated Stavanger municipality's spatial plan. Then the landfill president said the following: ‘In my opinion, the Government’s intervention and review of its jurisdiction when it does not like something for which the Government has a responsibility is inappropriate.’ This is also my opinion. It is the same inconsistency that applies in this case. The proposal is not primarily a problem for the Government. The government can provide all the contracts, all the agreements, all the information and all the information that the Storting may ask for. No, the matter is primarily a problem for Stortinget. Through such a process as the proposers now invite, Stortinget’s own role and authority are unclear. I will not go into the reality of the matter as it exists in this document. I can only state that the Workers' Party is now doing a joint action with the Advance Party to make the area of competence – and that is, responsibility – of the division of labour between magnificence and government unclear. It is not new that the Progress Party wants such a blending and erasure of the area of jurisdiction. But that the Workers' Party sets up such premises is disappointing, but perhaps not quite surprising. Of course, I have taken note of the investigation from the office of Stortinget and I am aware that the proposal as such, formally and legally, can be dealt with in line with the majority proposed by the Presidency, namely to send it to the Economic and Social Committee for the ordinary committee. But it's not primarily about formal light. It is about what the Storting considers appropriate and suitable for treatment, and about a clean procedure that makes it clear what responsibility the Government has. The majority may call the Government to account if it considers that the Government does not do as the Storting has decided. There is also good reason to ask questions about how this Document No. The 8 proposal is to be understood in relation to the very short deadline for the majority of the population to work after. When the proposers now ask the Government to submit to the Stortinget for approval all contracts, contracts and decisions before they are implemented, I assume, for my part, that it also includes the agreements in which the municipality of Bærum is involved, as an important prerequisite for all the contracts that will be linked to this large project. I do not know what time margins Bærum municipality will operate with and usually has for its proceedings, but at least this is not managed by Stortinget. And the Storting itself needs time for its own proceedings, if you choose to go into the matter, as the proposers suggest. Here, there are seven tenderers – it has been made clear today – who expect serious and thorough treatment. This cannot Stortinget do only overnight. Very quickly, Stortinget approaches the critical date of June 18, which is the last meeting day in Stortinget. If we do not keep that deadline, the matter will not be settled until the autumn. In that case, a significant loss has been made in relation to what at least the majority of people have done in order to speed up the procedure and to speed up the implementation of the decision. I have problems understanding the relationship between, on the one hand, the majority of the population of the government with regard to the limited time limit and treatment period, and, on the other hand, with regard to the need to go into the matter in detail, as stated in the proposal. All in all, this shows that this document no. The 8 proposal is not suitable for treatment here in Stortinget. Both practical and perhaps above all prima facie arguments warrant this. In line with the view of the minority in the Presidency, I would therefore suggest that this proposal should not be taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e1412	In line with Section 28d of the Rules of Procedure, Einar Steensnæs has addressed the proposal to which he referred. The President owes it to make the Storting aware of what is being expressed here as a presidential suspension, that it is hers in the Presidency, and has in doing so explained the Presidency's position on the procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e1417	I would ask the Stortinget to vote in favour of the majority vote of the Presidency. Steensnæs did not present the case. If one discusses this Document No. The 8-proposal, completely detached from the long background of the case, comes on wild roads. In fact, on several occasions the Stortinget has provided clear leadership for the development of an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. Despite this, on 8 April the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade sent out requirements and guidelines to such a knowledge centre which is clearly in conflict with the majority of the population adopted. At least that's the majority of the population. The Labour Party and the Advance Party took note of this in a letter to the Ministry and asked the Ministry to make changes and clarifications. The Minister of Industry then replied that he did not see that there was a basis for making such changes. It is against this background that Document No. The 8 proposal has been promoted, and the only way to ensure that the Storting decision is followed up is to get the case to Stortinget. Steensnæs says that the matter is primarily a problem for Stortinget. Yes, the matter will be a major problem for the Storting if the Storting makes decisions that the Government does not do anything to follow up, without it leading to anything. Then Stortinget has a big problem. So this is not a question of big business, it is a question of making sure to call about our parliamentary system, which is that the Government must follow the will of the Great Government. The proposal does not seek to instruct the Government in an area which, according to the Basic Law, has been entrusted to the Government's exclusive authority. This is apparent from investigations from Stortinget's office. It is stated in the Basic Law § 19: "The King shall guard against the use and management of the State Property and Regals on the basis of the greatest and most beneficial terms of the public service." It is clear here that it is the responsibility of Stortingen, and therefore Stortinget does not instruct the Government in a matter of the Government alone. The matter is not, however, about formal lighting, at that point I will agree with Steensnæs. It's a political matter. The size has wanted to start an IT and knowledge centre as quickly as possible, and it has wanted to develop an overall competence environment based on the plots and buildings on Fornebu. This has been the basis for Storting's treatment all the way, and it is clear that when the Government does not follow it up, it becomes a political matter. But in addition to that, Stortinget has the opportunity to do what Stortinget has done, and also pursue the case if the Government does not follow up what has been decided in Stortinget. So I find that there's no other way to do this than to adopt the transmission to the nutrition committee, and that the proposal is being examined in the Stortinget. It is in this way that you can ensure that the Storting's will is followed up in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e1435	I take the floor to endorse the proposal that Steensnæs has made. I must say that I think this document No. The 8-proposal is one of the most remarkable things I've come across in my business in Stortinget. True, I think it became even more remarkable after hearing Thorbjørn Jagland, as far as I understood him, is actually about ‘calling about our parliamentary system’, as he said. The reality is that the majority has established the main principles in the case of an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu and within a very tight time frame has left the Council of State to take a position on the matter, after which the same majority now wishes to take the matter out of the hands of the Council of State, and then to take over the proceedings themselves. That is the reality of the matter. If you look at what is said in the proposal – and I think you have to – it says in plain terms: ‘The requirements and guidelines are, at several points, contrary to, or differing from, the proceedings of the Grand Duchy.’ And then they go on to say, ‘The Minister of Economic Affairs therefore chooses not to comply with the Stortinget’s decision and the great majority’s clarifications.’ These are strong wordings and say that the bulk of the population simply does not trust the Minister of Industry to do the job they expect, so they want to take over the proceedings themselves. That is the reality. I have to say this is the first time I have heard that the parliamentary system is being called by taking from the Government a task which, according to a certain custom, is attached to the Government, namely to take a decision within the framework drawn up by the Storting. I am also, in fact, a little in doubt about what you really want to send to Stortinget. It does not even seem to be interested in a proposal with the Storting recommendation, but according to the wording of the proposal, it is a matter of having a lot of dossiers – a thick pile of case documents – after which the Economic and Social Committee itself will sit down and do the procedural work itself. This is quite surprising, and with the very short deadline, I think that the Business Committee will have to do several things in its proceedings during the 19 days available. I have a feeling that this isn't very well thought out. I have the principle of proposals like this that they need to be assessed according to their content. It is not the case that the Storting should stay away from all Document No. 8-proposals that intervene in an authority normally attached to the Government, but I believe that one should be detained and have a case-by-case assessment where it is particularly important that the Stortinge exercises a control authority and manages the administration. On this point, there is consistency in the position of the Progress Party, for they have always been very liberal in accepting Document No. Eight proposals. My criticism is that the content of the proposal is not very good. But the strange thing is that the Workers' Party has now carried out this total turnaround operation, because there have been many cases in which the Workers' Party has said on a principle basis that the Storting should stay away from going into the handling of individual cases. So now you've turned a trill around, and it's amazing to see a former government party operating that way. This indicates that it is a long time before they intend to take up government offices.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e1458	The right of the Grand Duchy to instruct the Government on how it – i.e. the Government – will exercise authority in an area assigned to the Government is a controversial and unclear question. On several occasions, the size has tried to draw certain limits on the size of the instructional tool, without it being said to have depreciated some crystal-clear practice — but the Storting has at least wanted to limit the intervention of the Storting in administrative matters of the Government. If the majority of the population chooses to follow the majority position of the Presidency, one, in my opinion, is in danger of moving this limit to the intervention of the Stortinge in such matters. Document No 8:58 differs from other document No. Eight proposals, for which it is stated in the clear text that the Government is to place all agreements, contracts and decisions concerning an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu before the Stortinget for final approval. In the opinion of the proposers, the Government shall first conclude provisional agreements and contracts and adopt provisional administrative decisions, which shall then be sent to the Storting for final approval. This is a whole new practice. The question that needs to be raised is whether the Storting really wants to establish such a treatment practice in matters assigned to the responsibility of the Government. I fully share Einar Steensnæs' view that this is a problem which is now primarily a problem for Stortinget. Because if such a practice is established, how will it work in the future within a political system and a political situation likely to imply that Norway will have minority governments in the foreseeable future? The main question, therefore, is whether the Storting should establish such a treatment practice, where the Government enters into provisional agreements and takes provisional decisions which will then be sent to the Storting for so-called final approval. I see that the Administration of Storting will not address the administrative policy aspects of this matter. However, there can be no doubt that strong constitutional objections must be raised to the type of decision taken by the document in question. The 8-proposal is another one. That is why I would recommend the Stortinget to support the Presidency minority, which proposes that Document No. 8:58 are not taken during treatment. The Workers' Party and the Advance Party have claimed that the Government does not follow the Storting's instructions. I'm not going to go into the interpretation of the decisions the Stortinget has taken before, but if the Stortinget is dissatisfied with the Government's decisions, it's as well known other ways of expressing such dissatisfaction – or we're going to say distrust – rather than promoting document no. Eight proposals, as the proposers here do.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e1476	Such formal rounds with the parliamentary leaders are often very factual and formalistic, and I feel tempted to deviate a little here. This is, in fact, a miserable thing, a project that should never be realized – but it is unfortunately decided. There is a wonderful and unholy alliance, with former State Councillor Opseth and Øystein Hedstrom in the head, who has now chosen to control the government in detail, directing a process towards a certain end result. They want as much detail management as possible, preferably with a committee as a case manager. I wonder very much how former State Council Opseth would have reacted if the Stortinge had tried to control him in detail in his working hours – yes, I imagine so. I've had a lot of talk with the State Council of Sponheim, but everything in time. I think one should take a little breath break in this daily detail management, and not drive and meat with him every day. That's why I support the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e1486	The president wants to appeal to the representative Myrvoll's use of words.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e1489	I figured it out, President.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e1494	I have with great satisfaction registered the willingness to clean up the presidency has had in the kind of questions we are discussing today. It has been shown that there is both the will and the ability to think in principle in matters relating to work-sharing between the magnificence and the government. The Stavanger case Steensnæs referred to is a good example of that. In the case we're now discussing, it's hard to recognize this line by the majority. The majority has informed that a decision will be taken in the case of an IT centre at Fornebu by 1 June. Leadership has been established and the Minister of Industry has documented in his reply to the Business Committee that the leadership has been followed up. In addition, the Council of State has made it clear that the recordings from the so-called Spøtvoll Committee have been added to the weight, something the Stortinge was briefed about would be done when the matter was discussed here. It is possible that someone in this room lacks elements that they have thought of or knows that the interested parties have been concerned about, but the government has to deal with what has been stated in writing. It is wrong in this case to turn on the line to which the majority of the Presidency refers. But even worse, it opens up a new practice that breaks with the line that I understand that the Presidency has tried to work on, namely, to clear a practice that is stronger than before, and more in principle justified than before, drawing up a division of labour between big business and government. The President-in-Office said it this way to the VG, that one thing is what the Storting can do, another thing is what the Storting should do. That is the issue we are discussing today. I have trouble seeing the logic behind the proposal that is now being promoted. It cannot affect the basis on which the stakeholders have made their bids, as the deadline expired today. The decision is to be taken by the Government, and I assume that there is full agreement that the best option should be chosen, so that matter should also be settled. It is only if you fear that a special actor or arrangement is not to be satisfied that it is logical to put a rice behind the mirror. The proposal states that all agreements, contracts and decisions relating to the creation of an IT centre shall be submitted to the Stortinget. If this is to be followed up and taken seriously, and what I am assuming the majority, it will take time. Before the final agreements can be drawn up, one must, among other things: know the outcome of the treatment in the municipality of Bærum, which is due to take place in mid-June. It will be completely impossible to present all agreements, contracts and decisions in a proper and proper manner before the Grand Duchy disintegrates on 18 June. It is therefore illogical to adopt such a form of work as the proposers will do, when one knows the commitment they have had, that is, to have a rapid decision, to have a decision on 1 June, despite the fact that the Council of State wanted a little more time to evaluate the offers that came in. I think that all logic implies that one follows the proposal that the representative Steensnæs has made.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e1507	Once you've heard the speeches from the government parties and the right, you'd think that the Stortinget was now invited to vote on the proposal itself, that is, the reality. I would like to remind Stortinget that this is not what is now the issue, but it is whether the proposal is to be sent to a committee to give an attitude to the Stortinget, and that is what comes in that setting, which in the future will be a real proposal. So that's the treatment. It is a little surprising to hear that several claim that there is a firm practice in this type of proposal, which intervenes, in what may be usually enforced and implemented and managed by the Government in many areas. But there has been a debate over many decades. When there is an opposition in the Storting that is dissatisfied with the government's law enforcement, with the government's decisions in some administrative matters, it has been normal for the opposition to want some of these kinds of cases to deal with the Storing, because there is a partial political disagreement that one wants to obtain. And it has to be clear that when, to those degrees, you have a minority government like the one we now have, it will be a greater interest to exercise control over the fact that that minority government is trying to stick to the will of the Storting, that is, the majority will. It has been mentioned that what is being proposed here is entirely alarming. Let me mention two suggestions from earlier times where there was also a discussion about whether they should be dealt with in committee or rejected. In Document No: 8:12 for 1986-87 Arne Schauge from the Right, former Minister for Finance, proposed the following: «The Danish Government asks the Ministry of Local and Labour to maintain the decision of the Bureau of Labour on 20 January 1987 that four temporary employment agencies should be exempted from Section 27 of the Employment Act. Therefore, these companies are given the opportunity to rent out the requested number of persons in the health sector for a probationary period until 1 January 1989.» – relatively detailed as to what was normally dealt with by the Government. I can mention a proposal in Document No. 8:24 for 1987-88 by Ingvard Sverdrup and former Right-leader Kaci Kullmann Five and also mentioned Arne Skauge: ‘The Government asks the Ministry of Local Government and Labour to continue to exempt Manpower A/S from the Employment Act from hiring out unskilled labour.’ Both proposals were sent to the committee for consideration, and that is what this is really about. Let me also mention, because many have gone into this with the formal, that there were proposals from both the undersigned and some right-wing people, including Per-Christian Foss, in a Document No. 8-proposal for 1988-89 to approve an application for approval of Oslo Private High School A/S and grants under the Private School Act – i.e. relatively detailed in an administrative case, the enforcement of a law. Then Hanna Kvanmo seized the word and said this was a matter of appeals. And she said, ‘When the Government rejects an application..., the Advance Party will come on an ongoing basis – and now the Right has also begun to come on an ongoing basis – with its proposal to appeal to the Stortinget for its decision.’ She went on to say, ‘These matters belong to the Ombudsman of Stortinget, who would then check whether the administration has complied with the laws and regulations in this area. I would therefore suggest that these two matters be dealt with now, treat them immediately and reject them as irrelevant to the Stortinget." And she got the following vigor from former Prime Minister Kåre Willoch, who said to this post: ‘After the intervention of Mr Kvanmos, I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that her position on the control of the administration of the Grand Duchy is clearly contrary to constitutional practice over many decades, and in so far as it represents a reactionary attitude towards the relationship between corruption and government.’ Maybe something for Jan Petersen to worry about. In the same debate, on 19 January 1989, the day said – I'm going to skip current President Jo Benkow, who said the same thing as Willoch and the opposite of Jan Petersen today, but I can take another interesting quote from the then parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party, current Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik, who said: ‘But I would like to highlight the main point of view – as I did at the time – that in the Storting’s control of the government and its activities lies in the fact that the Stortinget can ask for any matter it may wish, based on a judgement on what is politically important, and what is important for the Stortinget’s control of government and administration.’ I wish, sir. Steensnæs had got a little involved in what the Prime Minister said at the time. I could find another debate on similar issues, that is. I have. This was such a good quote that I have to take it too. It is Prime Minister Jo Benkow, 19 May 1989, on a similar issue: ‘Now, of course, it may be an assessment case to seek cover from the general point of view that, since it can be declared a management case, the Stortinget must deprive itself of an opportunity for everyone to participate in an assessment of these matters. The majority don't think it was right. That is why we have thought that these things can well go to the committee. There is no real position in this matter.» “Very wise speech by then prime minister Jo Benkow. And I'll be done soon. What's the actual ratio has Johs. Andenæs actually stated very clearly in his book ‘The State Constitution in Norway’, where he wrote the following on page 224 regarding the division of labour between the accumulation and government: ‘It is an ordinary thing in our day that the Storting intervenes in the management of the plenary decision, both with general provisions and with decisions on a case-by-case basis. It is likely that this development of law has now been established by constitutional law, so that there would be a constitutional breach if the government were to go beyond the directives of the Stortinge.’ And Kåre Kristiansen, then odelstingspresident, said, after he had quoted from Johs. Andenæs" book: ‘The issue can hardly be decided on the basis of constitutional legal provisions or legislation, but on the basis of political considerations which will probably have an impact on both political views and the specific situation. There are also a number of examples, including from the current period, of the fact that the Storting has sent private proposals on individual decisions in administrative matters to a committee.’ So there are no clear rules, it's based on a political assessment. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e1575	The President would point out that earlier in today's meeting he referred to Section 40 of the Rules of Procedure as regards the use of quotations, which is to be used to a limited extent according to Section 40. The President assumes that the basis of appeal was previously significantly weaker than the case on this occasion, and asks the representative Hagen to comply with Paragraph 40.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e1578	The representative, Mr Hagen, shall close his statement as follows: It is quite clear to me that the undead political reality is that the government parties would like to prevent the Government from being defeated in the Storing on this matter. Of course, it's real and easy to try to prevent it, but there's no argument for the opposition. Nor should it be for the Storting in total. I therefore recommend the majority voting of the Presidency. This was said by Kjell Magne Bondevik – I only replaced the ‘Work Party’ with the ‘Government Parties’.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e1587	The President finds good reason to stress Paragraph 40 also for the future, Mr. Hagen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e1590	In his enthusiasm for finding so many quotations, Hagen also mentioned me in that context and thought – as far as I knew – that I should benefit from knowing these quotations. I assume that it has not led Hagen to the belief that on principle I have argued against such matters being sent to the committee. I would therefore like to remind you of what I said in my post, namely that I believe that there must be a case-by-case assessment. Hagen will certainly bring to mind – if he had come so far in his quote, for this was probably also in his documents – that I have always disagreed with the very liberal position of the Progress Party and the very restrictive position of the Labour Party. I have just considered that on the basis of an assessment, a case-by-case assessment must be the right one. That is also what I have said in this case. Now I expect to reach Mr. Hagen mentioned my name after all these quotations, it was only to praise me for how I have managed to follow up the views of former Right-leaders in these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e1599	Several have not asked for the word. In the course of the examination of Minutes 215, there are two proposals. It is the Presidency's majority proposal that the matter be referred to the Economic and Social Committee, and it is the proposal of Einar Steensnæs that the matter should not be dealt with. In this context, the President refers to paragraph 28(e) of the Rules of Procedure. Then we can go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-18-2.ana.ud2187e1613	Unit 215 will then be sent to the Business Committee. Thus, today's map has been processed.
